
                               1 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        March 30, 2006 Thursday 03:30 PM

Tancredo Discusses Immigration Reform Bills;
Colorado Representative Opposes Amnesty Proposal

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: (R-Colo.), 6th District

LENGTH: 2072 words

HIGHLIGHT: Congressman Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) was online Thursday, March 30, at
3:30 p.m. ET to discuss his position on the immigration reform bills under
consideration in Congress. Tancredo is chairman of the 92-member House
Immigration Reform Caucus. He has advocated a major increase in border security
spending, the hiring of more Border Patrol agents, and the building of a
security barrier along the entire length of the border. Tancredo supported a
bill passed by the House in December that would impose stiffer fines for
employers who hire illegal aliens, add new mandatory minimum sentences for
immigrant smugglers, and mandate automatic detention and deportation for
immigrants caught crossing the border illegally. In addition the House bill
would add mandatory sentences for illegal immigrants who re-renter the country
after being deported. Tancredo opposes current Senate proposals that would
implement a foreign guest worker program, broaden legal immigration, and provide
amnesty to illegal aliens currently in the United States.



Congressman Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) was online

Thursday, March 30, at 3:30 p.m. ET to discuss his position on the immigration
reform bills under consideration in Congress. Tancredo is chairman of the
92-member House Immigration Reform Caucus. He has advocated a major increase in
border security spending, the hiring of more Border Patrol agents, and the
building of a security barrier along the entire length of the border. Tancredo
supported a bill passed by the House in December that would impose stiffer fines
for employers who hire illegal aliens, add new mandatory minimum sentences for
immigrant smugglers, and mandate automatic detention and deportation for
immigrants caught crossing the border illegally. In addition the House bill
would add mandatory sentences for illegal immigrants who re-renter the country
after being deported. Tancredo opposes current Senate proposals that would
implement a foreign guest worker program, broaden legal immigration, and provide
amnesty to illegal aliens currently in the United States.

The transcript follows.

____________________

Congressman Tom Tancredo: Hi, this is Congressman Tom Tancredo. Thanks for
joining me.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: Dear Congressman, I have been in this country for over 10 years
- college education and work. Each step of the way, I have maintained my legal
status. I am now in Year Three of (im)patiently waiting for my green card to be
processed. It is discouraging to see that the proposed Senate bill rewards
"illegals" but ignores the law-abiding immigrants (at least on their way to be
through the correct channels). What are your thoughts on this?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: You've hit the nail on the head. This is one of the
key problems with amnesty: it rewards people who have broken the law, and makes
a mockery of our legal system and those immigrants, such as yourself, who came
here legally. Worst of all, it encourages more illegal behavior.

_______________________

Watertown, Wis.: Congressman Tancredo, I think your idea is impractical. The
reason the cost of such measures is so high is that it ignores the fact that we
will not be able to stop people from getting in. If you consider that they are
desperate humans, they will always be more clever than us in getting to what
they need: namely, jobs. My question is this, if your ideas are enacted--which I
hope isn't the case--and then proven to fail--which I believe would be
inevitable--how would you know? Do you have some measure of success? And how
much are you willing to pay for that success? If the amount you suggest isn't
enough, is there an upper limit, which you would agree is too much?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: First off, we don't know what will work, because we've
never really tried to enforce the law. Enforcing the law is the first step to
getting this situation under control. But you make a good point -- most of the
12-20 million illegal aliens in the U.S. came here for a job. But take away the
jobs and, I think, you can stop much of the illegal immigration. The way you do
this is first come up with a system that allows employers easily to check the
legal status of their employees. We actually already have this -- the basic
pilot program. Our bill makes that mandatory. Second, you go after employers who
hire illegals. Last year, the government sent 3 -- count that, 3 -- notices of
intent to fine employers for hiring illegals. You wouldn't have to construct a
police state to get the job done. Just start trying to enforce the law, and
after employers see the penalties of hiring illegals, they'll get the message.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Do you have a plan to replace all the illegal immigrants
jobs? Who will do the jobs that this illegal immigrants are doing right now?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: President Bush likes to say that he just wants to
match "willing workers with willing employers." The reason that a lot of these
jobs are going unfilled is because they're not jobs that Americans are willing
to do... AT THAT WAGE. Continued non-enforcement of our immigration laws will
continue to drive down wages and convert jobs Americans will do today into jobs
they won't do (at that price).

_______________________

Greenville, N.C.: What are you feelings toward denying citizenship to children
born of mothers that are here illegally?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: I'm on a bill sponsored by Rep. Nathan Deal of Georgia
that would deny so-called birthright citizenship to children of illegal aliens.
There's a complicated legal argument at the center of this having to do with the
14th amendment, but the short of it is that people who are illegally in this
country shouldn't have the right to have their children gain the privilege of
U.S. citizenship. It is a terrible public policy to reward people who come into
this country by giving citizenship to their children (who then, in turn, can
bring them into the U.S.).

_______________________

Laurel, Md.: Can you explain why you believe that immigrants will willfully
report for deportation when their work visas expire? The most workable solution
is to give the people who chose some way to stay on a permanent basis.

Congressman Tom Tancredo: I think this is one of the most common
mischaracterizations of what I want to do. George Will wrote in the Post a few
weeks about how many buses it would take to deport all illegal aliens, and a
left-wing think tank estimated the cost in the billions. Of course, no one is
talking about mass roundups of 12-20 million illegal aliens. If you're an
illegal alien in the U.S. and you don't have a job and if the U.S. catches you
here you have no opportunity to come back into the U.S. for many years, what are
you going to do? You're going to go home. That's your only choice, and that's
the solution.

_______________________

Bel Air, Md.: Rep. Tancredo, what do you make of all the recent protests against
your bill especially those in Los Angeles, Dallas, and today in Arlington, Va.?
Do the protestors have a point?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: It's hard to imagine a more helpful action that the
demonstrators could do to galvanize people on my side of the issue. John Q.
Citizen looks at hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens in the streets, waving
foreign flags, and demanding, basically, that they be allowed to continue to
break our laws, and he realizes, if he hasn't already, that there's something
terribly wrong here. The best parallel that I can think of is what happened in
California in the lead up to Prop 187. 70,000 people protested in downtown LA
during the week before the vote and it helped propel the measure to victory. I
think that's what's going on here.

_______________________

McLean, Va.: As an Italian American, would you please share your own family's
story of immigrating to this country?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: Thanks for the question. My grandfather came to this
country legally from Italy quite a long time ago. The running joke in my family
is that he aimed for Iowa, missed, and wound up in Denver. He was going to
continue going west, looked at the Rockies and said "If Iowa is over THOSE,
forget about it." One of the experiences growing up in a home with immigrants
that shaped my views on immigration was when my grandparents told me to be
American. We celebrated our Italian heritage -- and still do -- but they wanted
more than anything for their children to become American and enjoy all the
opportunities available in this country.

_______________________

Marietta, Ga.: Are there any proposals regarding illegals who's been here for
over 10 years and has been paying all taxes and contributing to the economy?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: Economists, including Harvard's George Borjas, have
written on the question of what overall contribution illegal aliens make to the
economy (no matter how long they've been here), and have concluded that they are
a net drain to the economy. My critics like to cite the money they pay into
social security and in terms of some withholding of taxes, but, first, illegal
aliens are often paid under the table (so they don't pay any taxes), and,
second, they cost the American taxpayer through social services such as hospital
costs for the uninsured, education for their children, etc.

_______________________

Lakewood, Colo.: Hi Congressman, thanks for fielding my question.

Even with a guest worker program, it seems difficult to manage such a task
without FIRST securing our borders. Shouldn't we be able to control the number
of immigrants (legal and illegal) in this country to protect our nations
interests? Could you comment on this?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: I'm glad we have some writers from Colorado. This is
the House's approach -- enforcement first. During the 1986 amnesty, we were told
that, yes, we'd have more guest workers, and, yes, we'd have amnesty, but that
more border security would be in place. We found out what often happens: amnesty
and guest workers always are allowed, but securing our borders is rarely tried.
Another reason why I'm behind the enforcement first approach is that doing
otherwise is impractical. Why would any immigrant come here through the front
door when the backdoor is wide open? When you come here legally as a guest
worker, you're constrained by how long you can stay, you have to pay fees and
fill out paperwork, etc. So without secure borders, the path of least resistance
is coming here illegally.

_______________________

Tucson, Ariz./Washington D.C: How would a monstrosity of a fence between two
partner countries improve their relationship?

Let us think more towards regional integration rather than armed and fenced
segregation.

As parties to the North American Free Trade Alliance (NAFTA), both countries
should strive towards cooperation and not division.

A fence would not reflect an attitude of cooperation.

Congressman Tom Tancredo: Economic cooperation is completely different than
throwing open our doors to whoever wants to come here and work. It's pretty
clear that the Mexican government has an interest in keeping our borders open
and the money flowing south from illegal workers back to the country. They've
even hired a lobbyist in Washington to advocate amnesty! So, we have a
responsibility to secure our borders, and as much as Mexico would like to help,
we'd be grateful. Good fences make good neighbors.

_______________________

Springfield, Va.: Congressman Tancredo,

Do you think that H.R.4437 goes too far in some areas by turning illegal
immigrants into felons, making it a crime to assist illegal immigrants, and
denying services? These make the bill seem too punitive and mean-spirited
towards illegal immigrants. I think that the focus should be on building a
fence. It is discouraging to see the Senate considering amnesties and new guest
worker programs. What are the chances of the House and Senate agreeing on a bill
that leaves out the more harsh measures and the measures that will make the
problem worse?

Congressman Tom Tancredo: Unfortunately, this has to be our last question. Let
me briefly address the issue of making illegal presence in the U.S. a felony.

The truth is Democrats voted for the felony provision, and a majority of
Republicans (including me) voted against it.

Right now, illegal presence in the USA is not a crime; it is a civil infraction.
The House Judiciary Committee voted to make it a felony but then was counseled
that millions of new felons could clog our courts.

Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., wrote an amendment to his own bill asking
that the penalty be reduced from a felony to a misdemeanor; 191 Democrats and a
few Republicans voted to keep the felony penalty in the hope that it would be a
poison pill to defeat the measure. After his amendment lost, Sensenbrenner
promised, "When this bill gets to (House-Senate) conference, those penalties
will be made workable. You can count on that."

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       November 3, 2005 Thursday 12:00 PM

Virginia's Gubernatorial Race;
A Look at the Issue of Immigration on the Campaign Trail

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Vice President and Director of Studies at the Migration Policy Institute

LENGTH: 2092 words

HIGHLIGHT: Michael Fix, vice president and director of studies at the Migration
Policy Institute, was online Thursday, Nov. 3, at noon ET to examine immigration
as a campaign issue in the Virginia gubernatorial election.


Michael Fix, vice president and director of studies at the Migration Policy
Institute, was online Thursday, Nov. 3, at noon ET to examine immigration as a
campaign issue in the Virginia gubernatorial election.

Fix's work focuses on immigrant integration, citizenship policy, immigrant
children and families, the education of immigrant students, the effect of
welfare reform on immigrants and the impact of immigrants on the United States'
labor force. Fix, who is an attorney, previously served as a Principal Research
Associate at the Urban Institute, where he directed the Immigration Studies
Program from 1998 through 2004. Throughout the course of his career at the Urban
Institute, his research focused on immigrants and integration, regulatory
reform, federalism, race, and the measurement of discrimination.

Background: Virginia is home to more than 200,000 illegal immigrants, up 50,000
from 1996, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. The General Assembly has passed
several laws that would limit illegal immigrants' access to state services. This
summer, the Northern Virginia town of Herndon approved creation of a publicly
funded center for day laborers, some of whom may be in the country illegally.
More coverage

The Debate: Republican gubernatorial candidate Jerry W. Kilgore has supported
efforts to cut off public services for illegal immigrants. Last month, he said
public funds should not be used for the Herndon center. Democratic candidate
Timothy M. Kaine called such an approach "mean-spirited" and said it was the
federal government's responsibility to enforce immigration laws.

The Race: The state's next governor, who will be elected Nov. 8, might sign into
law or veto bills that affect illegal immigrants in Virginia.

washingtonpost.com Video: Immigration Issue Heats up in Herndon

From The Post:

Campaign Journal

Virginia Elections Coverage

The transcript follows.

____________________

Michael Fix: Hello to all and thanks for joining. I am Michael Fix, the Vice
President of the Migration Policy Institute, a private non-partisan think tank
dedicated to migration issues -- the only one of its kind in the U.S. With me
today is Marc Rosenblum, a visiting scholar from the University of New Orleans
and an expert on immigration policy. We'll try to do our best with your
questions about the Virginia campaign and the larger immigration policy context
within which it is taking place.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: Mr. Fix, I am an immigrant from El Salvador that came to the
USA in 1981 as a teenager. I lived in the northern Virginia area since then, and
I've live through lots of changes with respect to the influence from other
cultures in the community. I love this country, is my home now and that of my
children. I just don't understand why immigration is a very sticking point
always during elections? I know that with Home Land Security in place, and with
the imminent treat of an attack within our borders, we need to be watchful of
what our law can and can't do for immigrants. But with all the resources that
government officials have at their disposal, could we be better able to identify
those individuals that are a real treat, and not target the ones that are here
to make an honest living. Thank you.

Michael Fix: This is a very good question. First, the Virginia election may not
be typical of elections in all times and places in the US. In fact the other
major gubernatorial campaign that is now taking place in New Jersey between
Senator Corzine and Marc Forster, the Republican has not raised the immigration
issue -- despite the fact that New Jersey accounts has twice the share of
illegal immigrants as Va.

As to singling out those who are a threat, current proposed Senate legislation
would try to do just that by introducing a guest worker program and regularizing
the status of those who are here in unauthorized status. Those who participate
would be thoroughly screened to ensure that they were not security risks. The
president's proposal is in the same spirit.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: In 2008, assuming neither Warner nor Allen is running, will the
growth of Northern Virginia change the balance of politics to the point where
Virginia is no longer a gimmie for the GOP?

Michael Fix: We'll focus on immigration related demographic changes and leave
out other complicating factors. At first blush it seems that VA is not a gimmee
in any case for the Republicans. Second Virginia has been one of the fastest
growing states in terms of immigrants in the US. During the 90's the immigrant
population grew by over 80 percent compared to the US as a whole where it grew
by roughly 50%. Whether this growth translates into votes is another thing that
depends on voter registration rates (low historically for Hispanics), voting
rates (low historically for Asians), the share of legal immigrants who
naturalize (about 150,000 according to our recent analyses), and of course the
share of the newcomer populations that is undocumented. Finally, neither Asian
nor Hispanic immigrants vote *overwhelmingly* Democratic.

_______________________

Springfield, Va.: Just a comment -- The other night I saw a commercial on cable
in which Tim Kaine was apparently endorsed by a leader of the local Hispanic
community -- the entire commercial was in Spanish so I didn't understand exactly
what was being said. Ironically, it was immediately followed by the Kilgore ad
against helping illegal immigrants. It seems like the two candidates couldn't be
further apart on this issue.

Michael Fix: They do differ on these issues but their differences are we think
exaggerated by how the two camps are playing the issues. As it turns out Kaine
has staked out quite moderate middle of the road positions to our eye on
immigration issues -- he supported restrictions on giving illegal immigrants
drivers licenses, for screening eligibility for welfare. His position on in
state tuition was more circumscribed than that taken by many who promote it and
he has come out against providing government contracts to employers who hire the
undocumented. He has not used illegal immigration in his campaign as the kind of
defining issue that Kilgore has.

_______________________

Richmond, Va.: Do you feel that the current Republican campaign against
"illegal" immigration is an attempt to try to stir something (anything) against
the Democrats or is there a REAL public problem with illegal immigration in
Virginia? Is there a public perception that illegal immigration is a big problem
in Virginia?

Michael Fix: A September poll by the Washington Post of registered VA voters
suggests that many do find the issue fairly important -- 49 percent of
respondents said the issue is "very" important. Still it ranked 7th out of 8
issues offered in importance (others included taxes, jobs, etc.) 6 percent of
respondents thought it was the most important issue.

From a demographic perspective roughly 28 percent of Va's foreign born
population is estimated to be undocumented -- roughly the same as the national
share. That amounts to about 2.3 percent of all Virginians.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Poll Shows Kilgore Ahead of Kaine in Va. (Post, Sept. 11)

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Full Poll Results

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Given the enormous strain on tax revenues caused by illegal
immigrants, are you surprised that voters in Northern Virginia, where tax
dollars are needed for things like road construction, aren't more enthusiastic
about Kilgore?

Michael Fix: You do and do not have a point. On the one hand undocumented
immigrants are very heavily engaged in the labor market. The best estimates are
that over 90 percent of unauthorized immigrant males work. At the same time for
decades undocumented immigrants have been barred from virtually all public
benefit programs with the exception of emergency medicaid. In addition it is an
often overlooked fact that even the undocumented pay substantial taxes -- real
estate taxes, sales taxes, license fees, and in many instances payroll and
social security taxes. The Social Security Administration has estimated that
unauthorized immigrants contribute $6 - 7 billion in Social security funds that
they will be unable to claim.

That said, because of low educations and low incomes, studies that are now
several years old find that undocumented immigrants impose a net fiscal cost on
the jurisdictions within which they live -- largely as a result of school
expenditures. Of course these results do not take into account gains to
productivity, consumer savings etc. that might be generated by undocumented
workers.

_______________________

Etlan, Va.: I have heard nothing from Mr. Kilgore about what he intends to do
about localities building day labor sites. I know he says he is against any
public money being used for them but does he intend to go as far as attempt to
block localities from building such facilities? Or does the State have no
jurisdiction over such matters anyway and it is just so much campaign rhetoric.

Michael Fix: It is our sense that the Republican leadership will need to seek
state legislation to bar localities from supporting building day labor centers.

One state did so in 2005 -- Arizona.

One interesting question is what share of users of day labor centers are in fact
undocumented. According to our analyses of 8.6 million low wage immigrant
workers in the US 60 percent were legal immigrants or citizens.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Does someone there have more recent poll figures, I would like to
see how the polls have changed since September.

washingtonpost.com: : Washington Post Poll - Late October: Kaine Inches Ahead In
Va. Race, Poll Finds (Post, Oct. 30)

Full Poll Results

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Recently there were figures published quantifying the amount
of money that illegal immigrants contribute to the U.S. economy on the whole;
and from my recollection, it was a fairly substantial amount.

There may not be a direct correlation, but do you think the growth of the
illegal immigrant population has had a positive effect on the growth in
Virginia's economy? Also, would strengthening anti-illegal immigrant legislation
have a negative effect on Virginia's economy, or the rate of development?

Michael Fix: We don't know the answer to this question for sure but According to
the August 30 Washington Business Journal Northern VA continues to have one of
the lowest unemployment rates in the nation -- to the degree that employers are
finding it difficult to fill jobs.

While concerns about illegal immigration are both legitimate and understandable
one worry would be that like CA in the mid 1990s VA will assume an image as anti
immigrant that will lead skilled and legal immigrants to settle elsewhere in the
future.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: If Kilgore wins, do you think politicians in other areas will
interpret that as a sign that vocally opposing illegal immigration is a good way
to get votes?

Michael Fix: The short answer is yes in the way that Jim Gilmore's car tax
reduction set a sub agenda for the national republican party.

_______________________

Vienna, Va.: Here in Northern Va., I just really don't get the sense that there
is all that much animosity towards immigrant labor -- illegal or not. The fact
is, they seem to be appreciated for filling in the low wage jobs native born
citizens won't take. This makes me wonder -- are anti-immigration battles really
an attempt to create code-talk concern amongst rural white voters over cultural
and racial issues?

Michael Fix: One of the striking features of the immigrant population in
Virginia is its distribution -- two thirds of immigrant live in No VA while only
a quarter of the total state population lives there. It could well be the case
that much of the resistance comes from counties where the foreign born
population is small.

_______________________

Michael Fix: Marc Rosenblum and Michael Fix thank you for your tough, probing
questions and suggest that you might want to visit the MPI Web site and our
Migration Information Source for more information:
http://www.migrationpolicy.org/ and http://www.migrationinformation.org/.

_______________________

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

No Tuition Break for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: Metro; B04 , RICHMOND NOTEBOOK Rosalind S. Helderman

LENGTH: 664 words


AHouse of Delegates subcommittee effectively killed for the year a bill that
would have allowed some illegal immigrants access to in-state tuition rates at
Virginia colleges and universities.

Members of the subcommittee said they were concerned about an informal opinion
issued by a deputy attorney general that suggested that extending in-state
tuition to illegal immigrants might force the state to offer similar tuition
breaks to non-Virginian U.S. citizens as well. They voted to carry the bill over
for further consideration until next year.

The bill, sponsored by Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr. (R-Augusta), would have barred
many illegal immigrants from receiving the lower rates given to Virginians.
However, it would have made an exception for undocumented students who had
graduated from a Virginia high school, whose parents had paid income taxes for
at least three years and who swore they were pursuing legal residency.

The committee heard testimony from Leo Alonso, a Blue Ridge Community College
student who moved to the United States from Mexico when he was 6 and was
undocumented until 1998. Alonso, an Army veteran who served in Baghdad and
Fallujah, told the committee that allowing students to attend Virginia colleges
would show that the state "recognized and maximized their potential."

Several delegates said, however, that they thought extending benefits to
students who arrived in the country illegally would be unfair to immigrants who
followed U.S. law.

The Virginia Senate passed a bill making it a crime to serve alcoholic beverages
to underage guests inside a private home.

In an unanimous vote, the Senate approved House Bill 1208. Supporters said it
would close a loophole in Virginia law that allows residents to serve alcohol to
visitors regardless of age. The House had approved the bill unanimously last
month.

Supporters said that the measure was drawn to help curb underage drinking at
high school and college keg parties.

The legislation, sponsored by Del. Brian J. Moran (D-Alexandria) and Sen. Ryan
T. McDougle (R-Hanover), exempts adults who serve alcohol to their children or
to underage guests accompanied by a parent, guardian or adult spouse.

Also, the Senate passed a House bill requiring suspension of a driver's license
for at least six months for a Virginian convicted of underage possession or
consumption of alcoholic beverages.

A House subcommittee killed a bill that would have prohibited teenage drivers
from using cell phones, either handheld or with a hands-free device, on the
road.

The bill was sponsored for the second year by Sen. James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr.
(R-Fairfax), who has said a rash of teenage driving fatalities in Northern
Virginia convinced him that young people still learning to drive should be
forbidden the distraction of a cell phone. His bill, which would have applied to
those who hold provisional driver's licenses because they are under 18, was
approved in the Senate by a vote of 30 to 7.

But by a 3 to 2 vote, a subcommittee of the House Transportation Committee
declined to support the measure. By rules of the House, that means the bill is
dead for the year unless the committee chairman asks for a hearing in the full
committee. O'Brien said he has been assured the bill will get such a hearing
next year, but not this year.

"I'm very, very disappointed," he said. "We're talking 16- and 17-year-olds.
They're on probation  --  that's the whole idea."

Former Supreme Court justice Sandra Day O'Connor will serve as honorary
chairwoman of the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown celebrations
next year.

The appointment was announced on the floor of the Senate by Sen. Thomas K.
Norment Jr. (R-James City), who told his colleagues that O'Connor's role would
be more than "titular responsibility."

The celebrations will include a year-long calendar of events to commemorate the
founding of the first permanent English-speaking colony in the New World at
Jamestown in 1607.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               4 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Vows to 'Enforce Our Border';
In Texas, President Promotes Plan to Curb Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: DENVER Nov. 29


President Bush on Tuesday wrapped up a two-day visit to the Southwest to promote
his policy for stemming the tide of illegal immigration, vowing that his
administration will "enforce our border."

Bush started his day in El Paso, where his motorcade drove along a dusty road
just inside the border with Mexico. Afterward, Bush repeated his observation
that it will take a multi-pronged plan to get a handle on illegal immigration.

"We've got a comprehensive strategy that says we're going to enforce this
border," Bush said. "We're going to prevent people from coming here in the first
place. . . . And then I told you we've got to have better interior enforcement,
plus a rational worker plan that is not amnesty."

The visit to the border highlighted the second day of Bush's effort to win
support for his plan to step up border security and immigration enforcement
while instituting a guest-worker program that would grant foreign workers
temporary legal status to take jobs that go unfilled by Americans. On Monday, he
gave a speech in Tucson urging lawmakers to support his plan for  revising the
nation's immigration laws.

Officials including Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff and Texas Gov. Rick Perry (R) joined Bush in his
tour.

El Paso, like most areas along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico, has
experienced an increase in the number of illegal immigrants in recent years
despite intensified enforcement efforts that include high-tech sensors, more
Border Patrol agents and cameras aimed at catching illegal entrants.

Government agents have captured 4.5 million people trying to cross the southern
border since 2001. Nonetheless, the number of illegal immigrants in the country
has more than doubled to an estimated 11 million over the past nine years,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

After his tour of the border, Bush traveled to Colorado, where he was the
featured speaker at a fundraiser for Rep. Marilyn Musgrave (R).

Bush's approval ratings have fallen to record lows in recent months, causing
some Republican candidates to distance themselves from some of his policies.
Nonetheless, as the 2006 midterm elections draw closer, Bush remains a
fundraising force, at least for conservative Republicans. The $1,000-a-ticket
event in a downtown hotel here was estimated to have grossed $450,000 for
Musgrave's reelection campaign.

"She's not only a hard worker, she brings common-sense values to Washington,
D.C.," Bush said in endorsing her reelection. "And that's a town that needs some
common-sense values."

Bush's remarks here followed his appearance Monday night in Phoenix at a
fundraiser for Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.). That event raised an estimated $1.3
million for Kyl's campaign coffers.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               5 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 17, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

House Votes To Toughen Laws on Immigration;
One Setback for Bush: No Guest-Worker Plan

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1046 words


The House last night passed tough immigration legislation to build vast border
fences, force employers to verify the legality of their workers and tighten
security on the nation's frontier, but it rebuffed President Bush's entreaties
to include avenues for foreign workers to gain legal employment.

The bill passed 239 to 182, with 36 Democrats joining 203 Republicans to vote
yes. Seventeen Republicans, 164 Democrats and one independent opposed the
measure.

The bill was designed to demonstrate to voters a new resolve on border security
before the House adjourns for the year. But it also revealed deep divisions in
the Republican Party between lawmakers who agree with Bush that a strict
clampdown alone cannot work without a guest-worker program for noncitizens, and
others resolutely opposed to any plan  that would keep undocumented workers
flowing into the country.

Bush had made the immigration issue a top item on his domestic agenda, hoping a
carrot-and-stick approach to dealing with a growing number of illegal immigrants
and undocumented workers would satisfy conservatives while advancing his efforts
to reach out to Latino voters. But in the face of unyielding conservative
opposition in the House, leaders abandoned the president's guest-worker plan,
which would have allowed foreign workers into the country under temporary work
visas.

The House bill was adamantly opposed by an unusual coalition of business
lobbies; ethnic groups, such as the National Council of La Raza; religious
organizations; and labor unions that  contend the measure is too harsh on
illegal immigrants and imposes unworkable requirements on employers. Supporters
--  including the House Republican leadership  --  are convinced their measure
has the ardent support of constituents fed up with illegal aliens flooding
through the border. The Senate will  probably consider a very different version
next year that includes a guest-worker provision.

"For the first time, I can go out on the stump and say our party has done right
on the issue of immigration," said Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a firebrand on
illegal immigration who drove the debate. "And I feel good about it."

Opponents from both parties said the House had approved a punitive measure that
could criminalize not only undocumented workers but also their families and
employers, while doing nothing to bring some 11 million illegal aliens out of
the shadows and into lawful society.

"We owe a little more honesty to our constituents," said Rep. Jeff Flake
(R-Ariz.), whose efforts to pass nonbinding language endorsing a guest-worker
program were rebuffed by GOP leaders. The bill "means those who are here
illegally will stay in the shadows," he said. "That's unacceptable. That's not
enforcement. That's a charade."

The future of the immigration bill is unclear. In the Senate, bipartisan support
is growing for legislation co-authored by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) that would combine border enforcement measures with a
guest-worker program. But a large number of House conservatives say they will
never accept such a measure.

"I really worry that anything we do over here will be a vehicle for a
guest-worker program," said Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R-Ariz.).

Tancredo agreed: "Now the fight begins."

Under the House bill, employers would have to confirm the authenticity of
employees' Social Security numbers against a national database of legitimate
numbers or face stiff new fines of as much as $25,000 per violation. The measure
would end the "catch and release" policy for immigrants other than Mexicans who
are caught entering the country illegally and then released with a court date.
All illegal immigrants apprehended at the border would have to be detained, and
deportation processes would be streamlined.

Criminal penalties for smuggling immigrants would be stiffened, with new
mandatory minimum sentences. Immigrant gang members would be rendered
inadmissible under any circumstance. Mandatory minimum sentences would be
established for immigrants who reenter illegally after deportation, and local
sheriffs in the 29 counties along the Mexican border would be reimbursed for
detaining illegal immigrants and turning them over to federal custody.

Under an amendment approved Thursday night, the nation would spend more than
$2.2 billion to build five double-layer border fences in California and Arizona,
totaling 698 miles at $3.2 million a mile. Another amendment approved last night
would empower local law enforcement nationwide to enforce federal immigration
law and be reimbursed for their efforts.

For House leaders, the bill presented a delicate balancing act to satisfy
members clamoring for a real crackdown while not alienating Latino voters whom
Bush and his handpicked Republican Party chairman, Ken Mehlman, have courted.
GOP leaders refused to give Rep. Jim Kolbe (R-Ariz.) a vote on his proposed
guest-worker program, after lawmakers strongly opposed to illegal immigration
threatened to scuttle the entire bill if the Kolbe amendment was brought to the
floor.

But leaders also rejected proposed amendments to eliminate automatic citizenship
for babies born to illegal aliens on U.S. soil and to build a fence along the
entire southern border.

All of Maryland's representatives except Wayne T. Gilchrest (R) opposed the
bill. The Virginia delegation voted for it, except Democrats James P. Moran Jr.
and Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, who voted against, and Republican Jo Ann S. Davis,
who did not vote.

The passage of the bill was a bright spot for congressional leaders in an
otherwise difficult year-end crunch that has been marked by defeat and disarray.
House and Senate leaders are forcing lawmakers to stay on Capitol Hill through
the weekend as they struggle to complete funding measures.

Last night, budget negotiators achieved a breakthrough when Sen. Ted Stevens
(R-Alaska) agreed to drop from the budget-cutting measure a provision to open
Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling. Instead,  Stevens will
take his chances that he can pass the provision in the defense spending bill.

Stevens's decision may clear the way for a deal today to shave federal spending
by a little more than $40 billion over five years.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               6 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Senators Back Guest Workers;
Panel's Measure Sides With Bush

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1184 words


A key Senate panel broke with the House's get-tough approach to illegal
immigration yesterday and sent to the floor a broad revision of the nation's
immigration laws that would provide lawful employment to millions of
undocumented workers while offering work visas to hundreds of thousands of new
immigrants every year.

With bipartisan support, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 12 to 6 to side
with President Bush's general approach to an immigration issue that is dividing
the country, fracturing the Republican Party and ripening into one of the
biggest political debates of this election year. Conservatives have loudly
demanded that the government tighten control of U.S. borders and begin deporting
illegal immigrants. But in recent weeks, the immigrant community has risen up in
protest, marching by the hundreds of thousands to denounce what they see as
draconian measures under consideration in Washington.

"There is no issue outside of civil rights that brings out the kind of emotions
we have seen," said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), one of the bill's primary
sponsors, who called the controversy "a defining issue of our times."

Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) rushed committee members to
complete their work to meet a midnight deadline imposed by Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), who favors a tougher approach more in line with the
version passed by the House last December. But once the committee had acted,
Frist declined to say last night whether he would substitute the committee's
legislation for his own, which includes no guest-worker program.

Frist's efforts to wrest control of the issue from the Judiciary Committee could
produce a power struggle among Republicans once the majority leader brings up
the issue for debate and votes in the full Senate, probably this week. Specter
and the other committee leaders may have to muscle their bill through as an
amendment if Frist refuses to back down.

Frist, a presidential aspirant whom Bush helped elect as majority leader, favors
tightening control of the nation's borders without granting what he calls
amnesty to the approximately  11 million illegal immigrants living in this
country. But Bush favors a comprehensive approach, which he says must include
some program to answer business's need for immigrant labor.

"Congress needs to pass a comprehensive bill that secures the border, improves
interior enforcement, and creates a temporary-worker program to strengthen our
security and our economy," Bush said yesterday at a ceremony to swear in 30 new
U.S. citizens from 20 countries. "Completing a comprehensive bill is not going
to be easy. It will require all of us in Washington to make tough choices and
make compromises."

Polls indicate about 60 percent of Americans oppose guest-worker programs that
would offer illegal immigrants an avenue to lawful work status, and
three-quarters of the country believe the government is doing too little to
secure the nation's borders.

But the immigrant community has been galvanized by what it sees as a
heavy-handed crackdown on undocumented workers by Washington. The House in
December rejected calls for a guest-worker program and instead approved a bill
that would stiffen penalties on illegal immigrants, force businesses to run the
names of each employee through federal databases to prove their legality, deploy
more border agents and unmanned aerial vehicles to the nation's frontiers and
build massive walls along sections of the U.S.-Mexican border.

At least 14,000 students stormed out of schools in Southern California and
elsewhere yesterday, waving flags and chanting to protest congressional actions.
About 100 demonstrators, including members of the clergy, appeared at the
Capitol yesterday in handcuffs to object to provisions in the House bill that
would make illegal immigrants into felons and criminalize humanitarian groups
that feed and house them. More than a half-million marchers protested in Los
Angeles on Saturday, following protests in Phoenix, Milwaukee and Philadelphia.

"The immigration debate should be conducted in a civil and dignified way," Bush
said. "No one should play on people's fears, or try to pit neighbors against
each other."

A confrontation between the Senate and House Republicans now appears inevitable.

"We are eager, once the Senate passes this bill, to sit down and talk with them,
but there are certain fundamental principles which we simply cannot compromise
on," said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who cosponsored the bill that passed the
Judiciary Committee largely intact last night. "It has to be a comprehensive
approach. As we all know, just building walls and hiring more border patrols are
not the answers to our immigration problem."

Specter, the committee chairman, had tried for weeks to find a middle ground
between senators advocating a generous guest-worker program and those
categorically rejecting amnesty for illegal immigrants. In the end, that search
for a compromise failed because advocates of the guest-worker program had more
than enough votes to overcome conservative opposition.

The panel voted to accept a bill largely patterned on the measure sponsored by
Kennedy and McCain. Specter and Republican Sens. Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.), Sam
Brownback (Kan.) and Mike DeWine (Ohio) joined the committee's Democrats to win
passage.

The panel's bill would allow  the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in
this country to apply for a work visa after paying back taxes and a penalty. The
first three-year visa could be renewed for three more years. After four years,
visa holders could apply for green cards and begin moving toward citizenship. An
additional 400,000 such visas would be offered each year to workers seeking to
enter the country.

Senators also accepted a proposal by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) that would
offer 1.5 million illegal farmworkers a "blue card" visa that would legalize
their status. The committee also accepted a provision by Sen. Richard J. Durbin
(D-Ill.) that would shield humanitarian organizations from prosecution for
providing more than simple emergency aid to illegal immigrants, rejecting an
amendment by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) to require humanitarian groups providing
food, medical aid and advice to illegal immigrants to register with the
Department of Homeland Security.

Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) protested that the Feinstein proposal was more focused on
offering illegal immigrants a path to citizenship than meeting the labor demands
of agriculture. Cornyn suggested the Judiciary Committee bill was moving toward
creating a caste of second-class workers.

But Cornyn may have summed up Senate fears when he referred to energized voters
protesting what they see as amnesty for people who violated the nation's laws
and made a mockery of its borders.

"The American people are thinking, 'Fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice,
shame on me,' " he said. "The only way we can get the confidence of the American
people is to convince them we are absolutely serious about border security and
law enforcement."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               7 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Senate to Weigh Guest-Worker Proposal;
Frist Agrees to Amendment Vote

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 751 words


With the Republican Party deeply divided, the Senate will take up a broad
revision of the nation's immigration laws today amid signs that conservatives
are ready to compromise on efforts to offer illegal immigrants new avenues to
lawful employment.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) will move forward with his
legislation to bolster border security and toughen laws against illegal
immigration without a guest-worker program. But Frist agreed to allow Senate
Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) to quickly move to substitute
the more lenient bill that passed his committee Monday, and Specter appears to
have more than enough votes to do so.

That bill would couple border security measures with provisions that would allow
millions of undocumented workers to apply for legal work visas and move toward
U.S. citizenship, while offering hundreds of thousands of foreign workers access
to the U.S. workplace.

The committee's bill is a sharp break from the get-tough approach approved by
the House in December, which rebuffed President Bush's call for a guest-worker
program and focuses exclusively on border security and immigration law
enforcement.

The committee measure also places Frist  --  a potential 2008 White House
candidate  --  in a difficult position. The panel approved its immigration
overhaul by a comfortable 12 to 6 margin, with four Republicans siding with the
panel's Democrats. But most committee Republicans opposed the bill. There may be
as many as a dozen Republicans backing the Judiciary Committee bill in the full
Senate, but on an issue so fraught with political consequences, it is not yet
clear that Frist will allow the Senate to pass immigration legislation that
cannot garner the support of most Republicans.

"Under the best of circumstances, most bills don't make it. And this bill is
more complicated and in many ways more controversial than usual," warned Sen.
John Cornyn (R-Tex.), who opposed the committee's bill.

Still, with voters clamoring for action and hundreds of thousands of immigrants
marching against the House's proposals, GOP leaders signaled a willingness to
compromise. The committee's bill, which largely mirrors legislation written by
Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), goes considerably
further than Bush's proposals, but after a meeting with the president, McCain
declared, "I got the impression that he's happy."

House Majority Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) said that he hopes the Senate
will pass what he called "a responsible border security bill," but he indicated
he is willing to rethink the House approach. After meeting with ranchers and law
enforcement officers on the U.S.-Mexican border, Boehner said those living on
the frontier  do not think the House-passed border wall would work.

"If the people on the border don't believe that the wall will have the effect
that people here think, then we ought to reconsider it," he said.

Boehner also said he knows of no promises that House GOP leaders have given to
anti-immigration firebrands to block House consideration of a guest-worker
program.

Under the Judiciary Committee bill, illegal immigrants who pay a $1,000 fine and
back taxes would be able to apply for a three-year work visa, renewable for a
second three-year period. In the fourth year of work, the visa holder could
begin a five-year path toward citizenship. A second guest-worker program would
open up legal agriculture jobs to 1.5 million undocumented farmworkers.

The measure would also add as many as 14,000 border patrol agents by 2011 to the
current force of 11,300 agents and would authorize a "virtual wall" of unmanned
vehicles, cameras and sensors to monitor the U.S.-Mexican border.

Unlike the House bill, it would not make illegal immigrants and those who assist
them into felons, nor would it authorize the construction of massive new walls
along 700 miles of the southern border.

Republican opponents of the committee bill said they would wait to see what
amendments pass the Senate before they consider a filibuster of the measure.
Citing the passion of his constituents, Sen. John Ensign (R-Nev.) hinted at how
politically difficult a filibuster would be. "We need to do something," he said.

"You don't filibuster away the problem of 11 million undocumented workers,"
warned Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), a supporter of the bill. "You don't
filibuster away the idea that our borders are broken and our legal system's a
failure on immigration."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               8 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Speak Up, Mr. Bush;
For immigration reform to have a chance, the president must take a stand.

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 511 words


PRESIDENT BUSH says he's committed to "comprehensive reform" of the nation's
broken immigration system: legislation that would both increase enforcement to
stem the flow of illegal immigrants into this country and provide a legal way
to, as Mr. Bush puts it, "match willing foreign workers with willing American
employers to fill the jobs that Americans are unwilling to do." But the
president himself has been unwilling, so far, to match his words about reform
with deeds to make certain it gets done. Now, with the Senate debating the
explosive issue and protests against a draconian House bill flowering from the
streets of Los Angeles to the high schools of Northern Virginia, it is time for
Mr. Bush to step up.

In a welcome move this week, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved a realistic
and humane immigration measure. It not only would create a temporary worker
program to help stem the flow of illegal immigration but also would permit those
already working here illegally to obtain citizenship eventually. Credit on this
goes especially to the minority of committee Republicans  --  Chairman Arlen
Specter (Pa.) and Sens. Sam Brownback (Kan.), Mike DeWine (Ohio) and Lindsey O.
Graham (S.C.)  --  who voted with Democrats for this sensible approach, under
which illegal workers would have to register, pay fines and back taxes, learn
English, and wait their turn for legal status.

The Judiciary Committee's work could well be fleeting. Senate Majority Leader
Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) has a competing, enforcement-only approach that will also
be debated on the Senate floor. And the measure approved by the House  --  with,
it's important to recall, a statement of strong support from the administration
--  would, among other things, make it a felony to be in the United States
illegally or to help illegal immigrants. "The administration remains committed
to comprehensive immigration reform, including a temporary worker program that
avoids amnesty, and believes this bill is a positive step toward that goal," the
statement said of that draconian measure. With a gulf this wide and an election
looming in November, it's easy to imagine immigration reform languishing  --  or
even worse, the passage of an unbalanced, unfair measure that includes a
crackdown on illegals but not a remedy for those already here.

Which is why presidential involvement and clarity are so important. Does Mr.
Bush support the Senate Judiciary measure, which mirrors an earlier proposal
from Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.)? Mr. McCain and
Mr. Kennedy sounded hopeful after talking with the president, but the White
House has not been clear, simply repeating that Mr. Bush would oppose any
measure that grants "amnesty" without saying whether it views the Judiciary
measure as an amnesty bill. Does the president disagree with Mr. Frist's
enforcement-only measure? If that's the case, it would help if he would say so.
On reflection, does he really "strongly" support the cruel House approach? If
not, this would be the time to speak up.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                               9 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Bill Offers Work Visas ...

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 815 words


A key Senate panel broke with the House's get-tough approach to illegal
immigration and sent to the floor broad changes in the nation's immigration laws
that would provide lawful employment to millions of illegal immigrants while
offering work visas to hundreds of thousands of new immigrants every year.

The Senate bill adopts President Bush's general approach to an immigration issue
that is dividing the country, fracturing the Republican Party and ripening into
one of the biggest political debates of this election year.

Conservatives have demanded that the government tighten control of U.S. borders
and begin deporting illegal immigrants. But in recent weeks, the immigrant
community has risen up in protest, marching by the hundreds of thousands to
denounce measures under consideration in Washington.

Polls indicate that around 60 percent of Americans oppose guest-worker programs
that would offer illegal immigrants an avenue to lawful work status, and
three-quarters of the Americans believe the government is doing too little to
secure the nation's borders.

In December, the House rejected calls for a guest-worker program and instead
approved a bill that would stiffen penalties on illegal aliens, force businesses
to run the names of each employee through federal databases to prove their
legality, deploy more border agents and unmanned aerial vehicles to the nation's
frontiers and build massive walls along sections of the U.S.-Mexican border.

The immigration issue was a major topic during Bush's meeting with Mexican
President Vicente Fox on Thursday and Friday in Cancun, Mexico.

--  Jonathan Weisman

The Senate voted 90 to 8 to require lobbyists to provide far more information
about their dealings with lawmakers, responding to the Jack Abramoff political
corruption scandal with a plan for more disclosure rather than tougher
enforcement of ethics laws.

The Senate bill would also force the disclosure of indirect lobbying, such as
grass-roots activities, and prevent registered lobbyists from paying for
lawmakers' meals or giving them gifts such as sports tickets. But the
legislation that emerged Wednesday is less broad than GOP leaders envisioned in
January after Abramoff pleaded guilty to conspiring to bribe public officials.

Although some supporters  characterized the legislation as serious change,
government watchdog groups and several lawmakers who were active in pushing
ethics rule changes expressed disappointment. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), whose
lobbying and ethics plan had been hailed by Senate Republican leaders,  voted
against the bill.

The Senate rejected a plan to create an independent investigative office
designed to help the Senate's ethics committee enforce lobbying and ethics laws.

Senate and House leaders will have to reconcile differences before Congress can
send a bill to the president. The House's leading ethics proposal would also
broaden disclosure requirements, though not for such grass-roots activities as
instigating e-mails, letters and phone calls from voters back home. The House
plan would not bar meals or gifts.

Abramoff, who is cooperating with federal prosecutors, was sentenced Wednesday
to nearly six years in prison on separate fraud charges.

--  Jeffrey H. Birnbaum

Alan Greenspan is gone, but Federal Reserve officials kept going as if he
weren't, raising their benchmark short-term interest rate again and hinting it
could go higher to keep the lid on inflation.

"Economic growth has rebounded strongly" this year from its temporary weakness
in late 2005, the Fed's top policymakers said in a statement after their first
meeting led by new Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who succeeded Greenspan in
February.

The Fed's policymaking body, the Federal Open Market Committee, unanimously
agreed to raise its benchmark interest rate to 4.75 percent from 4.5 percent,
marking the 15th consecutive increase since June 2004.

--  Nell Henderson

The U.N. Security Council called on Iran to suspend its uranium enrichment
program within 30 days, ending three weeks of deadlock between Western powers
and Russia and China over how to pressure Tehran to prove that its nuclear
efforts are not aimed at making weapons.

The 15-member council unanimously adopted a nonbinding statement on Iran after
the United States and five key countries finished difficult negotiations on its
wording. The statement does not commit the United Nations to action against Iran
and was written to avoid language that might clearly set the stage for sanctions
or subsequent military moves  --  the sort of direct pressure that Russia and
China have declined to support.

Iran's ambassador to the United Nations, Javad Zarif, said his government has
not decided on a formal response, but he said Iran will never give up its right
to produce nuclear fuel for a peaceful nuclear energy program.

--  Colum Lynch

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              10 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Pressure, Frustration Mount

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 1240 words


The immigrant demonstrators who flooded the streets of America's cities
yesterday ratcheted up pressure on lawmakers to complete an overhaul of the
nation's immigration laws, while raising Republicans' frustration with President
Bush for what they see as a muddled stand on the issue.

Bush, a former Texas governor, made immigration reform a signature issue after
winning the presidency, advocating a guest-worker program that would offer
illegal immigrants and foreign workers access to the U.S. labor market. But for
months he has refused to get involved in the legislative details while
Republicans in the House and Senate fought among themselves and took very
different approaches.

The House, reflecting the anger of conservative districts contending with a
flood of illegal immigrants, passed legislation in December that would build
hundreds of miles of fence on the southern border and declare illegal immigrants
felons, without offering them lawful employment, much less a route to
citizenship. The Senate is trying to fashion a broader solution to address both
border security and the fate of 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants
already here.

But amid partisan finger-pointing, the Senate left town Friday for a two-week
recess, having failed to pass a bipartisan immigration compromise that appeared
to have the support of a clear majority of the Senate. The deal also appears to
have overwhelming support among voters. A new Washington Post-ABC News poll
found that 63 percent of those surveyed backed letting immigrants who have lived
in the country a certain number of years apply for legal status and eventually
become citizens.

In contrast, only 14 percent favored a plan to let illegal immigrants work for a
limited number of years before having to return to their home countries  --  an
alternative pushed by Sens. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.). An
additional 20 percent said illegal immigrants should be declared felons and
offered no temporary work program, a stand that corresponds with the legislation
approved by the House.

Many Republicans yesterday continued to blame Senate Minority Leader Harry M.
Reid (Nev.), who has used parliamentary tactics to block votes on Republican
amendments and is making demands the GOP sees as unreasonable. But they could
not hide their frustration with the president, either.

When the delicate compromise was announced Thursday morning, Senate Republicans
said, White House officials had told them that Bush would appear on television
early that afternoon to strongly back the deal  --  a move that advocates say
could have shored up support and deflected opposition from conservatives. Right
on time, Bush appeared in Charlotte, N.C., at 12:36 p.m., but his message was to
exhort senators "to work hard."

"I'm pleased that Republicans and Democrats in the United States Senate are
working together to get a comprehensive immigration bill," he said.

Advocates of the compromise were mystified that the man who first called for a
guest-worker program would go no further.

"I think it's a fair statement to say the president has provided great
leadership on the tenor of the debate, the tone of debate. Now it's time for him
to provide more leadership on the substantive outcome," said Sen. Lindsey O.
Graham (R-S.C.).

Some conservatives believe Bush betrayed them by launching the debate, then
letting Democrats such as Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.) and maverick
Republicans such as Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) take control of it.

"This administration and the president's decision has had an enormous impact on
the number of Hispanics who have committed crimes in this state," charged Rep.
Pete Sessions (R-Tex.), whose Dallas district saw as many as half a million
marchers on Sunday but whose office is fielding phone calls that overwhelmingly
reject rights for illegal immigrants. "The president is ignoring the rule of
law," Sessions said.

White House spokeswoman Erin Healey said she would not divulge internal
discussions about what the president agreed to say last week, but she asserted
that Bush has been "very engaged in this issue." She reiterated his support for
a comprehensive bill that would tighten border patrols, toughen the enforcement
of laws outlawing employment of undocumented workers, and expand a temporary
guest-worker program for both illegal immigrants and legal foreign workers
seeking access to the U.S. labor market.

Last night, citing Bush's Saturday radio address, in which he spoke of "a
promising bipartisan compromise," Healey said Bush had expressed "strong
support" for the Senate agreement.

With Bush on the sidelines, it may be the demonstrators who will drive the
process forward.

As he watched tens of thousands of marchers in the streets of Phoenix, Rep. John
Shadegg (R-Ariz.) noted that the demonstration kicked off with a rendition of
the national anthem amid a sea of U.S. flags. Shadegg voted for the House bill,
but he said yesterday's orderly, patriotic marches should help the cause of
lawmakers from both parties who want to temper the bill and add an avenue to
legal employment.

"Everybody is frankly astounded at the numbers of individuals who are willing to
stand up and say they are here illegally," said Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.), whose
suburban district is not far from Atlanta, where 50,000 marched. "If nothing
else can give a picture of why we need to act rapidly, it's this."

Beyond admiration for the marchers and the belief that the marches will spur
action, lawmakers are divided over where that action should lead. But House
Republicans seem to be softening their opposition to offering illegal immigrants
lawful employment or even citizenship.

"Personally, my views won't change just because somebody takes to the street
with a sign, no matter how many there are. I have my principles," said Rep. Jeb
Hensarling (R-Tex.), who backed the House bill. He added, however, that "a
guest-worker program is part of the solution, not part of the problem."

Even Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), the firebrand leader of the movement to crack
down on illegal immigration, struck a defensive tone. "Today's rallies show how
entrenched the illegal alien lobby has become over the last several years," he
said. "The iron triangle of illegal employers, foreign governments and groups
like La Raza puts tremendous pressure on our elected officials to violate the
desires of law-abiding Americans and to grant amnesty."

Public opinion may be shifting as well. House Republican leaders rushed members
back to Washington last year for a rare December session, convinced that a
measure to get tough on illegal immigration would help the party battle back
against the resurgent Democrats.

But in the new Post-ABC News poll, completed Sunday, 50 percent of respondents
said they trusted the Democrats to better handle the immigration issue, while 38
percent trusted Republicans. A third of Americans approved of the president's
handling of the immigration issue, while 61 percent disapproved. Only his
handling of gas prices showed lower approval ratings.

Three-quarters of those responding said the United States is not doing enough to
secure its borders, but they appeared to have rejected the argument that
immigrants are an economic threat. About 68 percent said illegal immigrants are
filling jobs Americans do not want, compared with 29 percent who believe they
are taking jobs from Americans.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              11 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 15, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

What to Do About Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 549 words


Your Oct. 5 editorial "The Politics of Immigration" was ridiculous.

When did the term "illegal alien" become "undocumented worker?" Of course, this
switch fits the tone of the editorial. Stating that an attorney general is
cracking down on things "illegal" makes it look as if he was doing his job,
while stating that he is cracking down on "undocumented" folks makes it seem as
if he is being downright mean.

As for Republican gubernatorial nominee Jerry Kilgore's suggestion that the
state dedicate 50 troopers to combat illegal immigration, The Post counters that
"the state has enough other crime to keep its troopers busy." Wow. Who hasn't
thought or said that to the trooper pulling him or her over on Interstate 95 for
speeding, or lighting up a joint, or jaywalking (I actually got a ticket for
that once)? Change the laws if they are misguided, but let's not just ignore
them.

The Post ends the editorial by stating, "In seeking to crack down on and evict
undocumented workers, Mr. Kilgore should bear the burden of explaining how the
employment market would replace them."

Sounds nice.

But  the next time some Third World leader tries to win an election by claiming
to enforce tougher child labor laws, let's see if The Post feels the same way.

--  Edward Koubek Jr.

Gaithersburg

*

Your editorial page has derided opposition to day-laborer centers as "populist
nonsense," adding that the presence of the illegal workers these centers would
serve is necessary because "the American economy wants and needs low-wage
workers." Aside from the naked elitism  in that sentiment, it also seems to defy
the most basic tenet of market theory, which would suggest that something as
sought after  as unskilled labor in the growing economies of Virginia and
Maryland would not remain low-wage for long.

The only way to ensure that market forces fail to work their magic on these
wages is to keep most of these workers right where their employers want them:
unorganized, undocumented and illegal.

The burden of dealing with illegal workers ultimately falls on the federal
government, and the consequences of the federal failure in this area are far
more troubling than some noise and congestion on a Gaithersburg street corner.
But until the federal government faces head-on the problem of illegal
immigration,  local governments should at least do no further harm.

--  Donald Sellitti

Montgomery Village

*

An Oct. 9 editorial urging Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. to reinstate
taxpayer-funded health benefits for recent immigrant children and pregnant women
ignored critical facts.

These immigrants were admitted based in large part on their sponsors' promise to
the government that their needs, including health care, would be met by their
sponsors during their first five years here.

It is a fundamental and rational part of our immigration policy to require a
substantial number of would-be immigrants (but not those seeking emergency
refuge or asylum) to prove that they will be initially self-supporting (or
supported by their sponsors, usually family members).

Absent that promise, the immigrants now seeking free health care would probably
have not been admitted, and other financially independent applicants would have.

--  Peg Manning

Los Angeles

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              12 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 18, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Brass Urge Small Bites on Immigration

BYLINE: Charles Babington and Shailagh Murray

SECTION: A Section; A23 , IN SESSION Charles Babington and Shailagh Murray

LENGTH: 738 words


Few issues divide Republicans more deeply than immigration, and Congress's GOP
leaders have decided to approach the matter one component at a time.

The Senate Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing today on "comprehensive
immigration reform." But top House and Senate officials have said recently they
want to address enforcement and border-control issues before tackling proposals
that could help undocumented workers obtain legal status, such as guest-worker
programs.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) believes that the entire package of
immigration issues is too much to swallow at once, and that lawmakers should
start with border security and law enforcement issues, spokesman Bob Stevenson
said yesterday. That puts Frist in line with House GOP leaders. Republican
lawmakers are sharply split between those who want to crack down on illegal
immigrants and those who want to create ways for some of those immigrants to
live legally in the United States, either temporarily or permanently.

"I was a little surprised" to hear Frist's comments, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.)
told reporters yesterday. "I wouldn't read too much into this enforcement-only
approach."

Cornyn and Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) are pushing a bill that would require illegal
immigrants to return to their home countries, where they could apply for a new
guest-worker program. It would grant them  temporary work visas but send them
back for at least one year once that visa expires.

The "report to deport" feature is a nod to lawmakers who insist that illegal
immigrants pay some penalty for breaking the law to enter the United States.

A rival bill is authored by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John McCain
(R-Ariz.). It would allow illegal immigrants to apply for  new work visas and
possibly earn permanent legal status eventually, without necessarily being
deported. Many businesses that rely on undocumented workers support the measure.

Testifying at today's hearing will be Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao. President Bush has proposed a
guest-worker program but has offered few details or lobbying efforts. That's not
likely to change soon, Cornyn said. "They may well see fit to let Congress work
this out," he said.

The Senate kicks off a month-long effort to cut spending by attempting to dock
its own pay. As early as today, senators are expected to vote on a GOP-offered
measure to freeze their 2006 cost-of-living adjustment. One prominent
co-sponsor: Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.), who blames his poor poll numbers back
home in Pennsylvania in part on public furor over a pay raise that state
legislators granted themselves.

The House will focus this week on amending the fiscal 2006 budget to include
more spending cuts, while the Senate tries to execute the $35 billion in cuts
that were approved when the original 2006 budget was approved this spring. Eight
Senate committees are expected this week to outline specific cuts, revenue
increases or cost savings.

Possible targets include Medicaid, student loans, corporate pension plans, food
stamps and agricultural programs. Congress may also seek $2.4 billion in new
leasing revenues from opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil
drilling. Various user fees may also be increased, including for using the St.
Lawrence Seaway and for visas sought by businesses for workers who are not U.S.
citizens.

The House may seek to increase the $35 billion figure to $50 billion as early as
Thursday, an effort that would delay the unveiling of specific cuts until the
end of the month. One idea is to impose an across-the-board spending reduction,
with exceptions for homeland security and defense spending. But some Republicans
believe there's plenty of fat to cut in the Pentagon's budget as well, without
compromising the Iraq war effort.

A House effort to dig deeper than $35 billion could cause problems for
appropriators, assuming that the additional cuts would run into some resistance
in the Senate, especially among Republican moderates. The Senate expects to
complete 11 of its 12 spending bills by the end of this week.

Congress also is expected to consider a new round of relief and rebuilding aid
for the hurricane-ravaged Gulf Coast. The White House could send up the request
as early as this week  --  but this time, House and Senate Republicans hope it's
paired with its own offsetting spending cuts.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              13 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 22, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Little Support for Bush Immigration Plan;
Congress and Advocates Question Guest Worker and Return Proposals

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 602 words


The Bush administration's plan to allow illegal immigrants and foreign nationals
to work in the United States for up to six years before being sent home is being
criticized by observers on both sides of the political spectrum  as "vague,"
"lacking detail" and unlikely to gain support in Congress.

"The administration hasn't given any detail. They're not interested in passing
it. They're just interested in talking about it," said Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank  that seeks to
limit immigration. "In the software business, they call this vaporware. They
don't want to offend this side or the other side, so they punt."

Under the proposed temporary worker program, outlined for the first time this
week at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing by Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao
and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, an estimated 8 million to 11
million illegal immigrants in the country and foreign nationals outside the
country could register with the government to work in the United States for
three years and later sign up to work for three more.

They would be given biometric identification cards that allow them to travel
freely between the United States and their home countries. But at the end of the
program, they would be sent home.

Asked by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) how much it would cost to deport 11
million people, Chertoff said "billions and billions and billions of dollars,"
adding that the idea is not feasible.

But sooner or later, under the administration's proposal, there would be an
immigrant exodus of historic proportions.

"It would assume that 11 million would register right away and that at the end
of six years 11 million would have to go, " said Jeanne Butterfield, executive
director of the liberal American Immigration Lawyers Association. "People aren't
going to report to deport."

Criticism rained on the plan even though the administration sought to bridge the
ideological divide by borrowing from two competing immigration reform proposals
already in the Senate.

Sens. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) proposed to eventually send
foreign workers home after their time in the program ended, like the Bush plan.
But Kyl and Cornyn would require illegal immigrants to leave the country before
applying for jobs.

Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and  Kennedy would require illegal immigrants to pay
a fine before participating and go to the back of the employment line, same as
the administration. But foreign workers could seek citizenship if they break no
laws before their time ends, which the administration does not allow.

Conservatives were divided. Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) responded sharply to a
statement by President Bush, who said illegal immigrants should be brought out
of the shadows and allowed to work legally.

"Bringing workers out of the shadows is simply another way of saying we should
legalize illegal immigrants," Tancredo said. "Yes, we should bring illegal
immigrants out of the shadows, and then return them to their home country."

Krikorian said one way to solve the immigration problem would be to enforce laws
against employers who hire illegal workers for cheap labor.

In testimony this week, administration officials acknowledged that about 400,000
employees are using a single Social Security number, all zeroes. But there was
little discussion about penalizing employers who accept such numbers, Krikorian
said.

"There's no effort to inform employers regularly of fake Social Security
numbers," he said. "That's something the president can do tomorrow."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              14 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 22, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Suspected Illegal Workers Found at Halliburton Job Site

BYLINE: Griff Witte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 771 words


Federal agents have identified 10 suspected illegal immigrants working at a
naval base near New Orleans where the Halliburton Co. subsidiary Kellogg Brown &
Root is leading hurricane reconstruction, according to a spokeswoman for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

A spokesman for the base said last night that 13 workers were barred from the
base this week for lack of proper work papers, and that they were employees of
Texas-based BMS Catastrophe. Officials of the company could not be reached
yesterday for comment.

A KBR spokeswoman said the firm will look into any allegations that its
subcontractors have violated the law or the company's code of conduct. She could
not immediately say whether BMS was working for KBR.

Immigration and Customs spokeswoman Jamie E. Zuieback said yesterday that agents
were called in Thursday by base security personnel and found that 10 workers
lacked proper documentation. The workers have not been taken into custody,
Zuieback said. She said the investigation is ongoing, but would not comment on
its scope.

Work at the base has been a source of dispute  in recent weeks because dozens of
unionized electricians, many of them local residents who had their homes
destroyed during Hurricane Katrina, claim they were let go by another
Halliburton subcontractor, Alabama-based BE&K, in favor of lower wage workers.
That came after the Bush administration suspended the Davis-Bacon Act, a law
that guarantees the prevailing local wage for workers operating under federal
contracts.

Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.), who has been following the case closely, said the
discovery of illegal immigrants at the naval base  confirms that Gulf Coast
workers looking for livable wages are getting left out of the federally funded
reconstruction.

"I don't think there's any question that there's a pretty significant sucking
sound there," he said. "If you were paying prevailing wages, you would be hiring
skilled electricians."

KBR has been working under a federal contract to help rebuild the Belle Chasse
Naval Air Station in New Orleans after Katrina hit. BE&K won a subcontract from
KBR to help build a temporary tent city to house 7,000 military personnel and
others assisting in the disaster response.

Susan Wasley, a spokeswoman for BE&K, acknowledged that federal agents had begun
reviewing documentation for the firm's employees, but said that papers for other
firms' employees were also being examined. She said that everyone who works for
the company has provided documentation, and denied that the firm had laid off
union workers in favor of low-wage labor. "No BE&K worker and no BE&K
subcontractor's worker has been detained," the company said in a statement.

The story of the union electricians  became the centerpiece of an event held
Monday by the Democratic Policy Committee, when Al Knight, head of the company
that hired the union workers, recounted his story for lawmakers. Senators
listening to his testimony blamed the Bush administration's suspension of the
Davis-Bacon Act.

Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.) expressed contempt yesterday for a system that she
said allows companies working for the government to make a larger profit at
workers' expense. "Skilled Louisiana workers rebuilding a U.S. military base
were pushed aside by sub-contractors looking to make a quick buck off American
taxpayers by hiring low-skilled, low-wage undocumented workers," Landrieu said
in a statement.

Among the electricians who lost their jobs was Sam Smith, whose  house in the
Ninth Ward was destroyed after Katrina slammed into the Louisiana coast. Smith,
55, returned to the city because of the promise of $22-an-hour wages, and
guaranteed work for at least a year at the naval base. He was quickly
disappointed, however, and lost his job within three weeks. "You would think
that the federal government should be making sure that people who are trying to
restart their lives and are trying to put their city back together again are out
there working," Smith said. "But that's not the case."

The Bush administration has steadfastly defended its suspension of the
prevailing wage law, saying it was needed to speed reconstruction and save the
government money.

"The Davis-Bacon waiver removed red tape to get the recovery effort going
quickly with more companies participating," Alex Conant, a spokesman for the
Office of Management and Budget, said in a statement. "We have not seen any
evidence of abuse  --  in fact, we have seen just the opposite. The waivers are
proving to be effective and efficient, jump-starting the recovery effort at
reduced costs to taxpayers."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              15 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 22, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Group To Keep Eye on Day Labor Sites;
Patrols Meant to Discourage Hiring of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 676 words


A group of Herndon residents that is part of the national Minutemen organization
is planning to patrol day laborer hiring sites in the town and report illegal
immigrant workers and their employers to authorities.

An offshoot of the Arizona-based Minutemen Project, which launched civil patrols
to stem illegal immigration along the U.S.-Mexico border this year, the Herndon
group says it will gather evidence of immigration and employment violations by
photographing illegal workers and those who hire them.

"The ultimate goal is to rid Herndon of illegal aliens," said the group's
leader, Herndon resident George Taplin.

With the formation of the group, tensions over day laborers and illegal
immigrants reached another peak in Herndon, where plans for an official hiring
site launched a vitriolic debate this summer that spread from town hall meetings
to national talk radio.

Kerrie Wilson, who sits on the executive council of Project Hope and Harmony,
the nonprofit group that will operate the planned job center, said she has
received several calls from laborers and employers who are worried about the
patrol. She said she and members of her staff have informed them of workers'
rights and discussed "conflict avoidance."

She said she did not know whether the patrols would discourage workers from
gathering in public.

"Certainly, workers are concerned now, but it's just too much to say" what the
effect will be, Wilson said. She added: "We believe this is an attempt to
provoke a reaction. And, frankly, mostly what we're focusing on right now is
getting the center up and running."

The planned center for day laborers, approved by the Herndon Town Council in
August, will occupy town property behind a former police station. It is meant to
replace an informal site that has long existed in a 7-Eleven parking lot, where
as many as 150 people  --  most of them Central and South American men  --
gather each morning.

Taplin said more than 50 volunteers, who are all Virginia residents but whose
names he would not divulge, will begin staking out informal hiring sites and
trailing laborers to their work sites in about two weeks. He said they will
compile a database of photographs and record the names of companies hiring
workers, then give the information to federal immigration authorities, local law
enforcement and other agencies, such as the Internal Revenue Service.

Taplin said the volunteers would avoid confrontation. They will be told that
they cannot carry firearms, he said. "We're here to collect data, and that's
it," he said.

Taplin said the group would also follow workers home to document possible zoning
violations, such as overcrowding.

Taplin said he met with Herndon Police Chief Toussaint E. Summers Jr. to assure
him that the patrols would not cause disruptions or hurt anyone. Neither Summers
nor a police spokesman was available to comment on the group yesterday, Police
Capt. Brad Anzengruber said.

Herndon Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly did not return a phone call after a message
was left with a town spokeswoman.

"Law enforcement is best left up to professionals," said Dean Boyd, a spokesman
for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, when asked what the agency would
do with reports from the Minutemen about illegal immigrants. "Obviously, we do
welcome tips from the public, but obviously, we have to run down the information
and verify it."

Wilson said the hiring center is scheduled to open in December. She said she
thinks the Minutemen's attention is focused in the wrong place.

"I think the real issue is, of course, that for folks that have questions about
immigration and the immigration system, the answer is down the street from
Herndon, in the halls of Congress and the White House," Wilson said.

Taplin, who is a plaintiff in a lawsuit against the town that seeks to block the
hiring center, said he was inspired by a Minuteman effort in Houston, which he
said steered workers away from official hiring sites. The patrol project will be
called "Operation Spotlight," as it was in Houston.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              16 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 29, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Suspected Illegal Workers Detained at U.S. Bases;
Investigators Question Employees Doing Contract Work at Military Facilities

BYLINE: Griff Witte, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 444 words


Federal investigators have detained in recent days more than a dozen suspected
illegal immigrants doing contract work at U.S. military facilities across the
country, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said yesterday.

The sweeps netted six people at the Belle Chasse Naval Air Station near New
Orleans, one at the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico, six at the U.S.
Army's Fort Irwin Training Center in California and one at the U.S. Marine Corps
Logistics Base in California.

ICE spokesman Dean Boyd said there's no evidence of any national security
breaches related to the workers' presence on the bases. But he said the agency
has been conducting inquiries at facilities such as airports, seaports, nuclear
plants and military bases because of the potential danger involved with illegal
immigrants working at such sensitive, high-security sites. "This is a problem
when you have individuals who maybe have used fraudulent documentation that are
working on a military installation," Boyd said. "It's a homeland security issue.
You don't know who these people are."

The detentions follow an investigation last week by base security at the Belle
Chasse base that identified 13 workers lacking proper paperwork. The workers
were contracted to do Hurricane Katrina recovery for Texas-based BMS Catastrophe
Inc. Three of the six detained yesterday were also doing work for BMS, according
to ICE. "They were arrested and they were put into immigration removal
proceedings," Boyd said.

A BMS spokesman disputed that yesterday. "Out of 360 workers whose IDs were
checked, three were pulled aside for additional questioning. All three were
released. None of them were arrested for improper documentation or for being an
illegal alien," said company spokesman Mark Johnson.

Johnson said the company relies on a temporary employment firm to do its hiring,
and that that firm is supposed to check workers' documentation. He said BMS also
does checks of its own.

Another company operating at Belle Chasse, a Halliburton Co. subcontractor
called BE&K Inc., said this week that ICE investigators had turned up two
illegal immigrants on the company's payroll. A BE&K spokeswoman said the two had
supplied phony paperwork.

The ICE said it is continuing an inquiry into the hiring practices of
contractors at Belle Chasse.

Earlier this week, the White House announced it would reinstate a federal wage
protection called the Davis-Bacon Act for Katrina-related work after a
bipartisan group of congressmen complained that the Gulf Coast was becoming a
magnet for low-wage illegal immigrants and that local workers were being left
out of the reconstruction.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              17 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 2, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Workers On GOP Agenda;
Latino Leaders Decry Proposals By Va. Delegates

BYLINE: Annie Gowen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 785 words


Republican members of Virginia's House of Delegates yesterday announced an
ambitious agenda aimed at illegal immigrants in the upcoming legislative
session, including a move to ban day-laborer centers that aid workers in the
country illegally.

House leaders said they will introduce wide-ranging measures in the General
Assembly that would bar illegal immigrants from attending state universities and
"scrub" voter rolls of such individuals.

The appearance of House Speaker William J. Howell, Del. David B. Albo
(R-Fairfax) and others in front of a Springfield American Legion post capped a
day in which Northern Virginia Latino leaders also gathered to decry the
"negative tone" of public debate on immigration in the state.

Growing concern by some voters over illegal immigration has been a flashpoint in
the state's hotly contested governor's race. Republican Jerry W. Kilgore has run
ads on the subject, including a recent spot in which he calls illegal
immigration a "growing crisis."

His opponent, Lt. Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), said he opposes illegal
immigration, but the issue is not a focus of his campaign.

An estimated 200,000 illegal immigrants live in Virginia, according to the Pew
Hispanic Center.

The Republican group was moved to appear yesterday, according to Howell
(R-Stafford), because GOP leaders are "troubled by the fact that government
resources at all levels are being stretched thin dealing with safety and
security issues caused by illegal immigration."

Del. John S. "Jack" Reid (R-Henrico), put it more bluntly: "People who come here
illegally and are not willing to go through the process [of becoming citizens]
are not welcome, and I don't want them here."

Later yesterday, Arlington County Board member Walter Tejada (D), who is
chairman of the Virginia Latino Advisory Commission, reacted angrily to the GOP
comments. He accused the Republicans of "political grandstanding." Their
legislative proposals, he said, are "full of code words that show nothing but
their bigotry."

Political analyst Mark J. Rozell, a public policy professor at George Mason
University, said that the Republicans' news event "is all about the governor's
race, there is no doubt about it. . . . This is all about mobilizing their
conservative base in an election . . . where the stakes are very high."

They chose Northern Virginia because "Fairfax County has become ground zero in
immigration battles in Virginia," Rozell said in reference to the recent
controversy surrounding a town-supported day-laborer center to be established in
Herndon.

In addition to reintroducing legislation to bar illegal immigrants from
state-supported colleges and universities, or at least deny them in-state
tuition, the Republicans said they hope to widen local law enforcement authority
to detain and deport illegal immigrants arrested for other crimes. They also
would toughen penalties for those who manufacture fake birth certificates and
driver's licenses and fine businesses that knowingly hire illegal workers
$5,000 per incident.

Albo said he wants to bar illegal immigrants from using any taxpayer-supported
day-laborer centers anywhere in the state. Albo and Del. Jeffrey M. Frederick
(R-Prince William), who also appeared at yesterday's event, are in the midst of
competitive reelection campaigns. Albo is facing challenger Gregory A.
Werkheiser (D), and Frederick's opponent is a popular Prince William supervisor,
Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge).

Albo said his legislation would require day-laborer centers to check the status
of all clients. Such a measure would affect the Shirlington Employment and
Education Center, which has operated in relative harmony in Arlington for the
past two years.

If officials there do not want to check the immigration status of workers, Albo
said, "we'll take them to court and shut it down."

Arlington County Board Chairman Jay Fisette (D) said the county's day-laborer
center is legal, and he accused the Republicans of playing election-week
politics.

"I would say it was somewhat predictable that we would hear something like this
the week before the election," Fisette said, calling the proposed legislation
"mean-spirited."

Shortly before the Republican event, Tejada and other Latino leaders gathered at
a church in Arlington to decry the "negative tone" of the debate, saying
immigrants are being made "scapegoats for all that ails Virginia."

"We're just tired and don't want to take it anymore, in the sense of focusing on
the negative," Tejada said.

The group's members stopped short of criticizing Republican leaders  --  or
Kilgore  --  by name, saying they wanted to keep the event "nonpartisan" and
focus on the success of local Latinos.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              18 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Affidavit Says Wal-Mart Knew of Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: Financial; D02

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Mo.


--  Two senior Wal-Mart executives knew cleaning contractors were hiring illegal
immigrants, many of whom were housed in crowded conditions and sometimes slept
in the backs of stores, according to a federal agency's affidavit.

The affidavit, unsealed last week, was part of an investigation by federal
immigration officials that led to the 2003 raid on 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21
states. The retailer agreed to pay $11 million in March to settle the case. It
has said that top executives neither knew of nor encouraged the practice, but
that is contradicted by the newly released documents.

The affidavit was filed by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement to
secure search warrants for a 2003 raid on Wal-Mart Stores Inc. headquarters in
Bentonville, Ark. It was unsealed Nov. 2 by a U.S. district judge in
Fayetteville, Ark. at the request of James L. Linsey, a New York attorney
representing more than 200 former employees in a lawsuit against Wal-Mart.

In the affidavit, investigators said testimony and taped conversations from 2003
showed two executives at Wal-Mart headquarters knew that contractors cleaning
its stores in several states employed illegal immigrants.

Wal-Mart denied there was any incriminating evidence in the affidavit and said
the comments by executives that it contained were "bits and pieces of
information from larger conversations."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              19 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Pushes Guest-Worker Program;
President Emphasizes Border Security but Faces a Battle in Both Parties

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 982 words

DATELINE: TUCSON Nov. 28


President Bush promoted his administration's efforts to get a grip on illegal
immigration, spotlighting a plan to tighten security along the southern border
and calling for a guest-worker program that would allow about 11 million illegal
immigrants to work legally in the country temporarily before forcing them to
return home.

Speaking Monday at an Air Force base here about one hour north of the Mexican
border, Bush put his rhetorical emphasis on measures sought by many Republicans
fearful of swelling illegal immigration: stronger border enforcement with
high-tech detection systems, larger centers to detain those captured, swifter
proceedings to deport them and increased policing of illegal immigrants in the
interior.

"Those who enter the country illegally violate the law," Bush said. "The
American people should not have to choose between being a welcoming society and
a lawful society. We can have both at the same time."

But the president faces an uphill battle in the House and Senate to realize his
vision of reform, which is drawing intense skepticism from many allies in his
own party who believe his approach is not tough enough. In the coming weeks, the
White House must persuade lawmakers to forge  several immigration bills,
differing widely in scope, into a single policy.

Bush's call for Congress to enact a temporary-worker program is especially
contentious within the GOP. The president's proposal would allow foreign workers
to enter the country for a fixed period  --  most likely three years  --  to
fill jobs that go unwanted by Americans, but some Republicans reject that as too
close to amnesty for illegal immigrants. The workers would be given a
"tamperproof" identification card, and would be required to leave the country
once their term in the country expires.

"Listen, there's a lot of opinions on this proposal  --  I understand that,"
Bush said. He added that the workers would not be put on a path to citizenship
and that workers who entered the country illegally would have to pay a  penalty
before entering the program.

"I oppose amnesty," Bush said.

Will Adams, a spokesman for Rep.  Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), said his boss was not
convinced. He called the president "Clintonesque," for advocating amnesty
without actually calling it that. "It's new lipstick on an old pig," Adams
complained. He said a guest-worker program would  reward immigrants who entered
the country illegally.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) is
writing legislation that does not include a guest-worker program, Adams said.
The committee's spokesman, Jeff Lungren, could not be reached to comment after
the president's speech.

Others called Tancredo out of step with a party and president who are trying to
tread  a middle path on immigration  --  enforcing the law while projecting a
more welcoming tone and recognizing the reality of an economy  in which
newcomers play an essential role.  Tancredo, for instance, has angered some
Republicans by proposing to deny  U.S. citizenship to children born to illegal
immigrants, a constitutional right.

"It would be unprecedented to take such a thing to the floor," said Cecilia
Muñoz, an analyst for the National Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights
group. "It would be an outrage that my community would remember."

Bush has worked aggressively to increase the GOP's share of the historically
Democratic vote of Hispanic Americans. Many business leaders, meanwhile, support
a guest-worker plan.

But the president in his speech made plain that he is sympathetic to people,
particularly in border states  such as Arizona and New Mexico, who view illegal
immigration largely as a social and economic burden and want a get-tough
approach. His emphasis on border security marked a rhetorical shift. Previously,
Bush spent more time touting a  guest-worker program that would ease the way for
undocumented immigrants to stay in the  United States.

Democrats also are divided on the issue, as the Democratic governors of  New
Mexico and Arizona have declared states of emergency because of the influx of
illegal immigrants. Bush's decision to emphasize border security disappointed
some immigration advocates, who said that the nation's huge investments in new
Border Patrol agents, electronic sensors, infrared imaging devices and border
barricades have not stemmed the problem.

"Over the past decade our nation has taken unprecedented steps to secure the
border," said Bishop Gerald Barnes, chairman of the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops' Committee on Migration.

"But the number of undocumented has more than doubled, and the number of deaths
in the desert has risen dramatically. Clearly, a more comprehensive approach
which emphasizes legal status for migrants and legal channels for migration is
needed."

Many legislative leaders say they agree that a comprehensive  approach is
needed, but which one is a matter of competition. A   bill  written by Sens.
John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and another  by Sens. Jon
Kyl (R-Ariz.) and John Cornyn (R-Tex.) offer guest-worker programs, but the
first bill allows illegal immigrants already in the country to stay and work if
they pay a hefty fine, and the other would force them to leave in five years and
come back to participate in any program. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist
(R-Tenn.) said the chamber will attack the issue  early in the new year.

Whatever the outcome, said Tamar Jacoby, a conservative Manhattan Institute
expert on immigration, it was time for the president to take the lead.

"He has offered a very detailed plan for intensified enforcement on the border
and in the interior," she said. "That should meet voter concerns about
immigration getting out of control. This is the president finally using the
bully pulpit and his political capital."

Fears reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              20 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Analysts: Crackdown Won't Halt Immigration;
House Bill Is Criticized for Not Factoring in the Effect of the U.S. Demand for
Labor

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 978 words


The bill passed by the House late Friday to step up border enforcement and crack
down on the millions of undocumented workers in the country would be doomed to
failure if enacted because it does not acknowledge the inexorable economic
forces that drive illegal immigration, according to many analysts.

"Enforcement alone will not do it," said Demetrios Papademetriou, president of
the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute. "There is a certain
emperor-has-no-clothes aspect to these enforcement-only bills. The only way they
can work would be if you totally militarize the border. And even then, people
would find some other way to come in."

The view that more than tougher enforcement is needed has been echoed by
President Bush, who endorsed the House measure but also has said that a guest
worker program that would create a legal channel for a significant number of
unskilled workers to come into the country is a crucial element in any effort to
control illegal immigration.

"It is a significant step forward," Erin Healy, a White House spokeswoman, said
of the House bill. "But the Senate has said that it plans to move next year on a
comprehensive immigration measure."

The bill, passed by the House  239 to 182, would significantly strengthen
enforcement  by building sections of double walls along more than a third of
the 2,000-mile southern border and incorporating more high-tech tools, including
sensors, radar, satellites and unmanned drones, to enhance patrols.

The bill also would discourage the hiring of  illegal workers by intensifying
enforcement against employers, who would have to confirm the authenticity of
employees' Social Security numbers against a national database or face fines of
as much as  $25,000 per violation. In addition, the bill would require that
undocumented immigrants apprehended in the United States be held in detention
facilities until they are deported. Currently, a severe shortage of detention
space forces authorities to release many non-Mexican detainees after giving them
summonses to return for deportation hearings, which most ignore. Illegal Mexican
immigrants are deported.

The Senate is expected to act on its own immigration bill early next year. That
measure is widely expected to include enhanced enforcement measures and a guest
worker program.

Congress has passed laws to crack down on illegal immigration in the past  --
most recently in 1996  --  but those efforts have met with little success,
especially when it comes to holding employers accountable. In 1999, the
government issued 417 notices of intent to fine employers for hiring
undocumented workers. Last year, that number dropped to three, according to a
report by the Government Accountability Office. Even when employers were caught
hiring undocumented workers, the penalties typically have been minor, the GAO
found.

"In many ways, we have kind of cut back on enforcement," said Steven A.
Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates a sharp decrease in immigration of all kinds. "It's not [like] the
weather. Many of these things are choices that the government makes."

Federal officials say several factors account for the lack of enforcement,
including widespread use of counterfeit documents by illegal immigrants and
problems  establishing a reliable database that would allow employers to more
easily detect cheaters. Also, there has been an increased focus on preventing
terrorism after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Gregory Siskind, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, said that the government's
enforcement efforts are constrained by the reality that illegal immigrants are
central to the nation's economy. While the country absorbs about 500,000 illegal
immigrant workers a year  --  many of them entering from Mexico  --   the
federal government grants only 5,000 permanent visas for low-skill workers
annually.

"There is no legal means for millions of people working here in restaurants or
on construction sites to come into the country," Siskind said. "Personally, I
think a lot of what we have seen on this issue is for show. I think there is a
recognition that illegal immigrants are a vital part of the workforce. They want
to enforce it in a way that sounds good for commercials, but not so much that
you would cause economic changes."

In many parts of the country, particularly in the Southwest, there is palpable
anger about what many people see as unchecked illegal immigration, which they
complain overwhelms schools and hospitals and often changes the character of
their communities. Arizona voters passed a measure last year that cut off public
services to illegal immigrants. A similar initiative is being promoted in
Colorado, while activists in California are working to put a ballot initiative
before voters to establish a state-funded border patrol.

Polls find that three out of four Americans believe the country is not doing
enough to keep illegal immigrants out. "The American public has lost confidence
with Congress on this issue," said Joseph Chamie, director of research for the
Center for Migration Studies. "But at the same time, the fact is that many
businesses benefit from this labor flow, as do many average Americans who hire
nannies, lawn people, or enjoy restaurants that might hire undocumented
workers."

While the federal government has more than doubled the number of Border Patrol
agents to more than 10,000 and tripled its border enforcement budget to more
than $6 billion over the past decade, the number of illegal immigrants in the
country has more than doubled in that period  to an estimated 11 million.

"These [enforcement] efforts operating alone are doomed to fail," said Thomas E.
Mann, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "But they are too attractive
in a political sense and too important  symbolically to resist."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              21 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Workers' Presence Growing;
Study Puts Number At 7.2 Million

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 658 words


Undocumented immigrants make up a growing part of the U.S. labor force  --
almost 5 percent  --  and account for a large number of jobs in farming,
cleaning, construction and food service, according to a study released
yesterday.

The study by the nonprofit, nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center estimated that the
number of people illegally in the United States grew by at least 400,000 last
year, to between 11.5 million and 12 million. Of that group, 7.2 million are
employed, the study found.

"The picture we have of this population is that in spite of efforts to control
unauthorized migration, the numbers have continued to grow," study author
Jeffrey S. Passel said. "This is a population drawn by employment, and the
unauthorized workers participate actively in the labor force."

Most of the migrants came from Mexico, who make up about 56 percent of the total
undocumented population. The rest of Latin America accounted for 22 percent,
according to the study, which also found large increases of illegal migration
from South Asia and East Asia. The study found that many immigrant families
blend legal and illegal status and that women were more likely than men to stay
out of the workforce.

The study's release came as thousands of people lobbied Washington yesterday to
protest proposed legislation that they say would let officials prosecute those
who help illegal immigrants. The Senate begins discussions this week on various
measures that would allow these migrants to continue to live and work in the
United States. President Bush has asked for immigration policy to be overhauled
and for the creation of a temporary-guest-worker program.

But these efforts have been opposed by anti-immigration groups. "Our economy has
been destroyed," said Chris Simcox, president of the Arizona-based Minuteman
Civil Defense Corps. The group has lobbied nationally for tighter border
security and locally against day-laborer sites. "We continue to send
manufacturing jobs overseas, and we're basically left with a service-industry
job market that many Americans won't take because the wages have been driven so
low."

The study did not examine income among illegal immigrants. But it did find that
that among males who are not authorized to work here, 94 percent had jobs,
compared with 83 percent for native-born American men, Passel said.

The study found a large number of illegal immigrants in certain sectors:
Twenty-four percent of all farming jobs are held by people who are not
authorized to work in the United States, while such workers hold 17 percent of
jobs in cleaning, 14 percent in construction and 12 percent in food preparation.
Whereas 16 percent of native-born American workers toil in service jobs, 31
percent of the undocumented workers do, the study found.

"This is a population that generally has low levels of education. They don't
have access to the kinds of licenses and credentials one might need for some
employment," Passel said. "So we find they are concentrated in service jobs,
construction occupations, food preparation and in agriculture as well."

This concentration, Passel said, creates an economy increasingly dependent on
illegal immigration.

"If you kick out 11.5 million to 12 million people," said R. Bruce Josten, a
senior executive with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, "it will bring this economy
to a screeching halt."

Most employers would prefer not to break the law to hire workers, but many feel
they have no other options, said John Gay, a spokesman for the National
Restaurant Association. His industry, which employs 12.5 million workers
nationwide, projects needing 15 percent more people over the next few years  --
and doesn't know where they will come from.

"Is it any surprise that we have 12 million undocumented?" asked Gay, who serves
as co-chairman of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition. "The legal
channels don't exist for the economy to get the workers it needs."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              22 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Debate Heats Up;
Undocumented Workers Rally as Tough Measures Are Considered

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1077 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA


The phones started jumping off their hooks early on that "Scary Tuesday," so
named because callers were spreading panic in this city's Spanish-speaking
community. They said federal agents were hauling illegal immigrants from their
jobs and deporting them.

Osmin Amilca of Guatemala ran home and locked the door. Daniel Tetl of Mexico
shut off the lights at work and cleaned in the dark. "It was the craziest day of
my life," said activist Peter Bloom, who fielded dozens of calls, including one
from a man who said that agents were right outside his front door. "People were
literally hallucinating."

Activists say the debate in Washington over the toughest proposals against
illegal immigration in recent times was the reason behind the panic. The fear
and paranoia were so strong on that Tuesday, Jan. 31, that the Italian Market at
Ninth Street and Washington Avenue virtually shut down because illegal
immigrants refused to come to work at meatpacking plants, vegetable stands, fish
markets and restaurants.

Within the next two weeks, the Senate will decide the fate of tough legislation
aimed at restricting illegal immigration.

Pro-immigrant activists are planning an April 10 protest in 10 cities that could
pull tens of thousands of immigrant workers from their jobs. A coalition of
groups including the AFL-CIO, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights,
Catholic bishops, the Day Without an Immigrant coalition in Philadelphia and the
U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce will meet today on Capitol Hill to announce
their plans.

Organizers hope to build on recent rallies in Washington; Trenton, N.J.; New
York; Chicago; and Philadelphia, which drew more than 100,000 immigrants. In
addition, activists, churches and labor unions are planning a national "Day
Without an Immigrant," hoping to shut down farms, hotels, restaurant kitchens,
meatpacking plants and chicken-processing plants on a large scale in places
where immigrants work.

Such a day was carried out with mixed results on Feb. 14 in Philadelphia, when
about 5,000 immigrants rallied on Independence Mall, according to the activists
who organized it. But downtown civic groups said the economic impact was so
small that they barely felt it.

"We have not been aware of any large-scale disruptions," said Elise Vider, a
spokeswoman for Center City District, a downtown improvement group. "It never
rose to a level that we would notice."

Ricardo Diaz, one of the event's organizers, said the civic groups are
minimizing the impact. "I understand it in some way," he said. "They have to
downplay it. Do they want people to recognize that they're so dependent on
immigrants?"

Opponents of illegal immigration were unsympathetic. Chris Simcox, president of
the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, said Diaz and others are not "representing
the immigrant community" but rather "representing the illegal immigrant
community."

"I'm sorry that they're fearful that we're going to enforce the law," Simcox
said. "Maybe that's a sign that they should return home and reenter this country
by our rules. Then they would have nothing to worry about. They could hold their
heads high."

About 12 million immigrants live and work illegally in the United States,
according to a recent study by the Pew Hispanic Center. Analysts say they do so
because the rules for entering the country are arcane and out-of-date, and the
demand for low-skill workers is immediate.

Hoping to stem the tide of illegal immigration, House Judiciary Committee
Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) sponsored tough legislation that
the House approved in December.

Sensenbrenner's bill would funnel more money into border protection, policing
and electronic monitoring. The bill would also authorize local police officers
to question and detain illegal immigrants, work that is now done by federal
authorities.

In addition, the proposal would crack down heavily on businesses that hire
people illegally and would impose heavier fines and jail time on anyone who
smuggles illegal immigrants or helps them cross the desert or otherwise enter
the country.

But before a Senate or a House version of an immigration bill has become law,
the fear among  illegal immigrants is palpable.

On Martes de Miedo  --  Tuesday of Fear  --  men carried half their family
savings with them in case they were picked up,  Diaz said. Mothers did not go to
work for fear their children would return from school and discover that their
parents had been deported.

"It was really, really bad," said Raul Castro, who closed his Mexican restaurant
for lack of business that day.

"A lot of my friends called. They were telling me that someone two blocks away
got picked up, and I said no. A girl called and said she couldn't go to get
diapers: 'I have no food for my baby. I'm afraid.' "

Carlos Romero, owner of La Tienda, a large thrift store, said he had one sale
--  a 40-cent bag of potato chips  --  by 4 p.m. "Nobody saw anything with their
own eyes," he said. "I didn't close, but it was an ugly day."

On the following Thursday, Romero said, he sold 12 airline tickets to people who
have since returned to Mexico, an assertion that could not be confirmed. "I've
never sold that many tickets," he said. "They said they would have to go back
anyway."

A week after Scary Tuesday, another incident frightened immigrants. According to
activists, a pregnant Chinese woman, Zhenxing Jiang, 32, who entered the country
illegally 11 years ago and had applied for asylum, was seized by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents during a visit to ICE offices in
Philadelphia in early February. ICE officials say she was taken into custody
because her application for asylum had been denied and her appeals had been
turned down.

Her attorney said Jiang was shoved into a van and driven to John F. Kennedy
International Airport in New York for deportation. The woman's husband, Tien
Xiao Zhang, was unaware of his wife's detention until he received a telephone
call from her, during which she tearfully informed him that she had miscarried.

Although federal officials were within their rights to take Jiang into custody,
Rep. Nydia M. Velazquez (D-N.Y.) has called for an investigation of their
conduct, and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) has requested that Jiang's deportation
be held up. A spokesman for Specter said this week that the senator's office has
been told that Jiang, who was released, has received a six-month stay.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              23 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 24, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Debate Is Shaped by '08 Election;
Presidential Hopefuls Offer Their Proposals Ahead of Senate Vote

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman and Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1121 words


President Bush's effort to secure lawful employment opportunities for illegal
immigrants is evolving into an early battle of the 2008 presidential campaign,
as his would-be White House successors jockey for position ahead of next week's
immigration showdown in the Senate.

Bush called on Congress yesterday to tone down the increasingly sharp and
divisive rhetoric over immigration, as he renewed his push for a guest-worker
plan that would allow millions of illegal immigrants to continue working in the
United States. But Bush's political sway is already weakened by public unease
about the war in Iraq and by Republican divisions.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), whom Bush helped elect as party
leader, is threatening to bring a new immigration bill to the Senate floor early
next week. It would tighten control of the nation's borders without creating the
guest-worker program the president wants.

Meanwhile, Sen. John McCain (Ariz.), a rival of Frist's for the Republican
nomination, is promoting Bush's call for tougher border security and the
guest-worker program as he embraces the president to shore up his standing with
Republican leaders. In the House, Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) is garnering
support for a long-shot presidential bid with his fierce anti-immigration
rhetoric.

And after weeks of sitting on the sidelines, Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
(D-N.Y.) jumped into the immigration debate Wednesday. She declared that
Republican efforts to criminalize undocumented workers and their support
networks "would literally criminalize the good Samaritan and probably even Jesus
himself."

Presidential politics "makes it that much more difficult, of course," said Rep.
Jim Kolbe (R-Ariz.), a strong Bush ally on the issue. "You would hope three
years out that we could tamp that out and focus on the policy questions at
stake, but maybe that's not possible."

For Republican presidential candidates, immigration offers up a difficult
choice: Appeal to conservatives eager to clamp down on illegal immigration who
could buoy your position in the primaries, or take a moderate stand to win
independents and the growing Latino vote, which could be vital to winning the
general election.

"The short-term politics of this are pretty clear. The long-term politics are
pretty clear. And they're both at odds," said Mike Buttry, a spokesman for Sen.
Chuck Hagel (Neb.), another potential GOP presidential candidate.

Senators had hoped to avoid such acrimony when the Judiciary Committee began
drafting its immigration bill early this month. Committee Chairman Arlen Specter
(R-Pa.) had vowed to write a bipartisan proposal that would bridge conservative
demands for much tougher border enforcement with calls from both parties for a
guest-worker program to meet the demand for unskilled labor and to address the
12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States.

But after progress slowed, Frist short-circuited the process. He announced that
the Senate will take up border security and immigration enforcement measures on
Tuesday  --  without a guest-worker component  --  if Specter cannot produce a
bill by Monday.

Frist has not ruled out a guest-worker program. But conservatives' grumbling
about the president's program found a Senate voice yesterday when Sen. Johnny
Isakson (R-Ga.) announced that he will not accept such a program until "we have
proven without a doubt that our borders are sealed and secure."

At the same time, Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) promised this
week to filibuster Frist's enforcement-only bill.

"If the majority leader is . . . going to bring his own bill to the floor,
dealing with only one of the problems we have with immigration, then I will use
every procedural means at my disposal to stop that," Reid said on CNN.

The fight next week will test Republican unity on an issue with social,
political and national security implications. Adding to the tumult will be House
Republican leaders, who muscled through an immigration enforcement bill in
December and plan a series of events in the coming days to trumpet border
security.

The debate will also serve as a test of Bush's ability to sway an increasingly
restive Republican Congress on an issue he has championed since his first term.
In recent months, under pressure from GOP lawmakers, Bush has retreated from
focusing mostly on the guest-worker program to giving equal billing to border
security.

"But part of enforcing our borders is to have a guest-worker program that
encourages people to register their presence so that we know who they are, and
says to them, 'If you're doing a job an American won't do, you're welcome here
for a period of time to do that job,' " Bush said after meeting with groups
involved in the immigration fight.

The leading bills all seek to bolster border enforcement with more police on the
frontier and more technology tracking illegal crossings. But a bill co-sponsored
by McCain and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) breaks with Specter's proposal by
offering an easier road to citizenship for illegal immigrants already in the
country.

Specter also goes further to exact punishment on illegal immigrants who seek to
obtain a guest-worker permit, and his measure could punish those who help
illegal immigrants, even church groups that offer shelter. Frist has taken the
border security and immigration enforcement provisions from Specter's bill,
while leaving behind his guest-worker program.

Guest-worker proposals would allow businesses to offer special work visas to
illegal immigrants already in the country if they can show that U.S. workers
will not take the positions. The visas would last for up to six years under the
leading Senate proposals, but senators are divided over whether workers would
have to return to their home countries for a year before qualifying for a
renewal.

White House aides said Bush remains deeply committed to the guest-worker
program, despite resistance from conservatives, and is certain it will help
expand the party's support in Florida and in the Southwest, which is emerging as
a key battleground in national elections.

Former congressman Timothy J. Roemer (D-Ind.) said the debate over welfare
reform in the 1990s should serve as the model for compromise on immigration
today.

"The middle of the Republican Party and the Democratic Party have a
responsibility to tackle and solve this issue," he said.

Kolbe said it is increasingly unlikely Congress will reach an agreement that
could make it to the president's desk.

"I don't think this fire is easily extinguished," he said. "Rarely have I seen
an issue that divides people so clearly, with so little possibility of seeking a
middle ground."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              24 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Tougher Enforcement May Jeopardize Support;
GOP, Democrats Both Stand to Lose

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher and Shailagh Murray, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 1207 words


Both Republicans and Democrats risk alienating coveted supporters as they
attempt to find the right balance between toughening enforcement and expanding
legal opportunities for millions of low-skill foreign workers to take jobs in
the United States.

As the Senate begins debate on revamping the nation's immigration laws, the
issue poses multiple challenges for both political parties, while offering no
clearly expedient solution. Two huge electoral prizes, the Southwest and
Florida, are potentially up for grabs, as are millions of Hispanic votes
elsewhere. But also in play are the votes of angry residents in border states
and beyond who feel overwhelmed by the rising tide of illegal immigration.

"In some ways, the rhetoric of this debate is as important politically as the
policy that eventually emerges," said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic
Center, a Washington research organization. "If there is an impression that the
leadership of one party or another is really harsh and punitive, you open up
possibilities."

A sudden spate of rallies on the streets of Phoenix, Los Angeles, Detroit and
elsewhere  --  all in protest of a possible federal crackdown on illegal workers
--  suggests that immigration may be an issue that galvanizes this increasingly
vital, but difficult to reach voting bloc.

Immigration has mobilized Hispanic voters in the past, most notably in
California after the 1994 passage of Proposition 187, a voter initiative to cut
off public services for illegal immigrants. Enactment of the law was blocked by
the courts, but the fact that then-Republican Gov. Pete Wilson supported the
measure swung California's huge Hispanic vote firmly into the Democratic camp
for years.

At the same time, however, lawmakers face the potential ire of voters who want
more done to crack down on the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now in
the country. The problem led Democratic governors in both Arizona and New Mexico
to declare states of emergency in counties along the border with Mexico to
combat illegal immigration. Talking points circulating among Democrats on
Capitol Hill stress, "if you do not seem credible on enforcement, you may lose
credibility which will jeopardize other components of immigration reform."

Tougher enforcement is an idea that resonates among frustrated voters,
particularly in parts of the country where public services including schools and
hospitals are strained by the influx of new residents. In 2004, Arizona voters
ratified a ballot initiative similar to 187, despite the opposition of Gov.
Janet Napolitano, a popular Democrat, and Sen. John McCain, a popular
Republican.

Views on immigration break into two camps. At one end are law-and-order types,
mostly conservative Republicans, who want to tighten border security and step up
enforcement against illegal workers. The business community, the Roman Catholic
Church, many Republicans and most Democrats occupy the other camp  --  joined,
notably, by President Bush. Although they generally support tougher enforcement,
they also want to change federal law to allow illegal workers to gain legal
status so they can continue to fill many low-skill jobs that they believe would
otherwise go vacant. Moreover, they say, welcoming outsiders is a core American
ideal.

"Each generation of immigrants brings a renewal to our national character and
adds vitality to our culture," Bush said in a speech yesterday. "Newcomers have
a special way of appreciating the opportunities of America, and when they seize
those opportunities, our whole nation benefits."

But Bush's position has split Republicans. Former White House aide David Frum,
writing on the Web site of the National Review, said of the president's
proposal: "His version of immigration reform can only pass Congress with
Democratic votes, and there is zero possibility that the Democrats will help him
--  but every likelihood that they will egg him on to incite a Republican civil
war on the issue that most bitterly divides the president's party."

The competing camps on overhauling immigration laws do not break down along the
usual ideological or regional lines. In Arizona, for instance, the two
Republican senators  --  Jon Kyl and McCain  --  both consider themselves
conservatives. But McCain champions a bill that includes the guest-worker
program Bush has outlined, which would allow participants to apply for legal
residency without returning to their home countries. The bill also would
substantially increase the number of green cards, granting permanent U.S.
residency to low-skill workers.

Kyl, meanwhile, supports a guest-worker program but would provide no avenue for
citizenship and would force workers to go home for a year before reapplying. He
also wants to build fences in urban areas, hire more border control agents and
crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants, to get a handle on illegal
immigration.

Kyl's view is that the current economic pressures for immigrant labor could
subside in the future, costing legal American workers jobs. "Get ready for a
real tough time when American workers come to your office and say, 'How did you
let this happen?' " he admonished colleagues on the Judiciary Committee as they
debated the bill yesterday.

Many advocates believe that any successful legislation would have to bridge both
camps. "I don't believe this is a zero-sum issue for us," said Ken Mehlman,
chairman of the Republican National Committee. "It is absolutely possible for us
to be pro-immigrant and pro-law enforcement."

Brent A. Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin
American Citizens, an advocacy group, said a balanced approach is the only one
that would be accepted by much of the Hispanic community.

"The average Latino immigrant cannot understand why if they work hard and play
by the rules, they can't be treated like previous immigrants and be given a
legal avenue to come here." Members of both parties believe that at the root of
the immigration debate is a fear among voters that illegal immigration is a
piece of a bigger, more threatening force: a loss of control over national
security as a result of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. What "motivates
most Americans is the border insecurity problem that we have," said Sen. John
Cornyn (R-Tex.), who is trying to thread the needle between the two camps.

Democrats have mostly stood back from the debate and allowed the warring
Republican factions to simmer. Documents circulating among senior Democratic
Senate staffers note that Republican voters view immigration as a much bigger
problem than do Democrats.

The Senate is expected to debate the immigration bill for two weeks  --  an
exceptionally long time for legislation, particularly in an election year, and
only the beginning of a long road of negotiations with the House, which passed
legislation cracking down on illegal immigrants but offering no guest-worker
program.

The tenor and time allotted to the debate reflect a broad consensus that
immigration is one of the most urgent and fundamental issues confronting
Congress. "This is a complex problem," said Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.).
"Where is home and where do we want home to be?"

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              25 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Seeks to Ease Distrust in North American Talks

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 907 words

DATELINE: CANCUN, Mexico March 30


President Bush began two days of meetings Thursday with Mexican President
Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper in hopes of repairing
fissures that have developed in the relationship among the North American
neighbors.

Although the three nations entered into a formal security and prosperity
partnership last year that was intended to strengthen their ties, the
relationship between the United States and both its neighbors has been
characterized in recent years by creeping distrust over issues such as illegal
immigration and the implementation of U.S. trade policy.

Mexico has a huge stake in the ongoing debate in the United States over
revamping immigration policy, being the home country of two-thirds of the
estimated 11 million undocumented workers in the United States Tens of thousands
more Mexicans attempt to cross the border each month.

After a meeting with Fox on Thursday, Bush told reporters he had reiterated his
desire to sign a comprehensive immigration bill that strengthens border security
and enforcement. Bush said that the United States has an "obligation" to secure
its borders, and he thanked Fox for acknowledging Mexico's "shared
responsibility" in that effort.

Bush also repeated his call for an increase in the number of green cards, which
would allow more immigrants to be granted permanent residency in the United
States. And he once again called for creation of a guest worker program that
would create a legal channel for thousands of low-skilled workers to come into
the United States.

"We don't want people sneaking into our country who are going to do jobs
Americans don't want," Bush said. "We want them coming in an orderly way."

Analysts say many Mexicans have been put off by what they perceive as an
increasingly hostile view in the United States toward illegal immigration,
including a bill passed by the House of Representatives in December that would
step up enforcement in part by building a wall along more than a third of the
2,000-mile U.S.-Mexican border.

The Senate is debating a more moderate immigration measure that includes a guest
worker program like the one long advocated by Bush.

Canadian attitudes toward the United States, meanwhile, have been soured by the
invasion of Iraq and a general perception that Bush has pursued an arrogant,
go-it-alone foreign policy. For some, that has been symbolized by the
long-running dispute over heavy U.S. tariffs on softwood lumber imports from
Canada.

Former  prime minister Paul Martin suspended talks last year on the $4.5 billion
in duties the United States has placed on the lumber, saying the levy violated
the spirit of the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Harper has said he is looking for ways to make progress on the issue. Bush added
that he was "always optimistic" that the dispute could be resolved.

Canadians also have objected to a U.S. plan to require special identification
cards for people who regularly cross the borders with Canada and Mexico, saying
it would hinder tourist and commercial traffic. Harper said the proposal
presents a "pretty significant challenge."

Bush, however, has said the cards  would expedite the flow of commerce between
the two nations and facilitate travel while helping to secure the U.S. borders.

"The idea is to make sure that tourists and trade move freely and terrorists
don't," Bush said in an interview earlier this week with Canada's CTV.

The series of disputes has helped turn public opinion in Mexico and Canada
decidedly against the United States.

A Pew Research Center poll found that two-thirds of Mexicans and three-quarters
of Canadians surveyed held a favorable view of the United States in 2000. By
2005, just 36 percent of Mexicans and 43 percent of Canadians who responded had
a favorable view of the United States, according to an Ekos poll.

There is a "general sense on the part of both of our neighbors that America's
focus was exclusively terrorism and we were prepared to do everything else
unilaterally," Robert Pastor, director of the Center for North American Studies
at American University, said in a telephone interview.

Compounding that sense in Mexico has been the uneven impact NAFTA has had there,
Pastor said.

Rather than resulting in a surfeit of good jobs that slowed the flow of illegal
immigration, the enactment of NAFTA has coincided with a sharp increase in the
number of undocumented workers living in the United States. And while many jobs
have been created in Mexico, others have migrated to countries where low-skilled
labor is even less expensive.

"NAFTA succeeded, but only for that part of Mexico that was connected to the
United States," Pastor said. He said major investments were needed in roads and
other infrastructure, particularly in southern Mexico, before the benefits of
free trade were felt throughout the country.

Meanwhile, the income and wealth disparities between the United States and
Mexico have widened, not closed. Experts say this gap lies at the root of the
illegal immigration problem.

"Trade is not the only locomotive that pulls the train," said Andres Rozental,
president of the Mexican Council on Foreign Relations.

Bush, Fox and Harper started their day with a tour of the Chichen Itza Mayan
ruins, which are about 127 miles west of here. The three leaders, dressed
casually, climbed a few of the narrow steps  of El Castillo, a steep
75-foot-tall pyramid.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              26 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Immigration Impasse: A Way Out

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 982 words


Our immigration debate is at an impasse. The House has passed a mean-spirited
and delusional bill that focuses heavily on border security and would
criminalize some humanitarian acts that aid immigrants. As for the 10 million to
12 million illegal immigrants already here, the supposition is that they should
somehow go home. Just how is unclear. Meanwhile, the Senate seems ready to
authorize up to 400,000 "guest workers" annually. Guest workers, also endorsed
by President Bush, would reduce illegal immigration by giving many of the same
people  --  mainly poor and unskilled Mexicans  --  work permits. The Senate
approach also is delusional and undesirable. It would increase American poverty
under the guise of curing worker "shortages."

We can do better, but chances are we won't. In 2004 immigrants accounted for
nearly 12 percent of the population, the highest share since the 1920s. The fact
that there are so many immigrants makes discussion harder because passions on
both sides are so easily aroused. Already, hundreds of thousands of Hispanics
have marched in Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington and elsewhere. But broader
public opinion is also increasingly agitated. A new survey by the Pew Hispanic
Center finds that 52 percent of Americans think immigrants "are a burden because
they take jobs [and] housing." That's up sharply from 38 percent in 2000.

In this climate, the immigration debate has become an exercise in political
public relations, often disconnected from practical realities. Republicans and
Democrats are trying in different ways to appease middle-class anxieties without
alienating present and future Hispanic voters. The one saving grace is that we
may still have time to fashion a more sensible consensus. By the Pew poll, most
Americans aren't yet so fearful of immigration that they aren't open to reason
and evidence. Only 21 percent see immigration as a "very big problem" in their
localities, although responses are higher in areas of greater immigration (55
percent in Phoenix, 36 percent in Las Vegas).

Let me outline what I think such a consensus might be. It has three elements and
borrows from both House and Senate approaches.

*  Strengthen border and employer enforcement. Unless it's stopped, the present
illegal immigration of an estimated 500,000 people annually will overwhelm any
system. The main lure is jobs. That's why it's essential to adopt a mandatory
requirement for employers to verify new workers  --  electronic checking of
documents. Companies that hire illegal immigrants should be penalized heavily.
But it's also essential to dry up the supply. In an earlier column, I supported
the construction of fences or walls, 20  to 30 feet high, along the Mexican
border. They would, I think, significantly reduce the flow, though some would
still come by overstaying student and tourist visas.

*  Grant amnesty to existing illegal immigrants. President Bush and many
Republicans oppose this, but it's essential. We can't run an immigration system
that condones mass illegality. Most illegal immigrants deserve legal standing
--  and a path to citizenship. Although they "broke the law," we (meaning
American society) encouraged them by inadequately policing the border and
employers. Most won't voluntarily return home, where typical wages are 80
percent lower. Trying to force them back would create a huge backlash. We'd have
stories of parents being torn from their American-born children. Companies would
complain that government was destroying their firms by removing longtime,
diligent workers. Finally, the failure to legalize today's illegal workers would
weaken companies' incentives to comply with checks of new workers. If firms were
already breaking the law to stay in business, why not take the added risk?

*  Forget guest workers. Maybe a few job categories (sheepherders) with existing
guest worker programs are justified. But businesses' complaints of widespread
labor "shortages" mainly put a respectable face on their thirst for cheap labor.
Most guest workers won't go home, even if required (see above). They'll become
illegal immigrants or citizens. Either way, adding poor people is bad social
policy. It would bloat the demand for government social services. And it would
hurt today's poor  --  including other immigrants and many African Americans  --
by keeping wages down. Jobs attracting lots of immigrants have low wage
increases. From 2002 to 2004, median hourly wages rose only 2 percent for
construction laborers and 3.6 percent for dishwashers.

On paper, this package has something for everyone. It lifts anxiety for today's
illegal immigrants and acknowledges their dignity. It lets companies keep
today's illegal workers. It toughens border and employer policing. But it would
also disappoint everyone. For business groups, immigration advocates and Bush,
there would be no new guest workers. The president and House Republicans would
have to swallow amnesty, though maybe they could change the label and debate the
details. One Senate proposal envisions an 11-year transition period and a
requirement to learn English.

I don't claim that this approach would succeed. Preventing illegal immigration
may prove impossible. If so, we'll need to rethink immigration policy
fundamentally. But I do believe this approach has better chances of success than
most of the congressional proposals. Unless we legalize today's illegal
immigrants and reject large-scale guest worker programs, we will indefinitely
have two tiers of immigrants  --  legal and illegal  --  with the prospect that
the stigma of illegality will taint the legal. By success, I mean that new
immigrants gradually think of themselves as Americans and that most slowly
disperse all along the economic spectrum. And immigration ceases to be a major
issue, because it is no longer a source of large social and economic conflicts.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              27 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Split on the Lines of Illegal Immigration;
Arizona's McCain and Kyl Exemplify Division Among Republicans Nationwide

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 870 words


Disagreements over how to deal with illegal immigration are splitting the
Republican Party as few issues have lately, dividing state congressional
delegations down the middle and bringing the Senate to a virtual standstill
yesterday.

Epitomizing the divisions are Arizona's GOP senators, Jon Kyl and John McCain.
Both face important elections and represent the same 5.8 million people. But
they are leading the two main opposing approaches that Republican senators will
have to reconcile if Congress is to address border security, illegal worker
status, deportation practices and other issues.

McCain, hoping to gain the 2008 presidential nomination, is the chief sponsor of
legislation that would give millions of illegal  immigrants a path toward
citizenship if they pay fines and back taxes, learn English, stay employed and
do not  break laws. Kyl, facing a potentially strong Democratic challenger this
fall in his bid for a third term, is a key proponent of a guest-worker program
that would require undocumented workers to return to their countries when their
visas expire, a move that critics call unrealistic. Both bills would pour
billions of dollars into greater border enforcement.

The House has approved an enforcement-only bill, but the immigration debate has
deeply divided the Senate, especially its 55 Republicans. Party leaders
unsuccessfully sought a compromise in several closed meetings yesterday.

"I'm very frustrated," Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) announced on the
Senate floor. He accused Democrats of obstructionism, but Democrats shrugged off
the charge. The Republican-controlled Judiciary Committee sent a bill to the
floor that a majority of Republicans apparently will not embrace, they noted,
because of the disagreements personified by Kyl and McCain.

McCain supports the committee-approved bill, but acknowledges that Congress's
divisions over immigration reflect those of the public. "I live in a state where
it's the number-one issue," he said yesterday. "I know that Americans are of
different minds on this, including my state. But that doesn't mean the United
States Senate shouldn't act."

Kyl spent much of the day on the Senate floor, trying to amend the committee
bill to add tougher sanctions against some illegal immigrants, such as those
with criminal records. Aides said he did not have time for interviews.

Experts on Arizona politics say the immigration issue generates enough
crosscurrents to provide ample justification for both senators' views. On one
hand, Arizonans have been alarmed by the influx of impoverished Mexicans pouring
into the state following tougher enforcement on the Texas and California borders
in recent years, said Rodolfo Espino, a political scientist at Arizona State
University. But the state's booming construction and tourism industries crave
the low-wage workers, he said, and the steadily growing number of legal
immigrants are wary of actions they view as punitive to fellow Latinos.

"It's a pretty conservative electorate that Kyl is facing" this fall, Espino
said, and his emphasis on tighter borders and sanctions against those who
crossed illegally will probably serve him well. Kyl is largely in line with
Democratic Gov. Janet Napolitano, who declared a state of emergency along
Arizona's Mexican border last August, Espino said, so the strategy may limit
Democratic challenger Jim Pederson's room to maneuver on immigration.

"It was very surprising to see 20,000 people in the streets of Phoenix," Espino
said, referring to the recent mass protest against the Kyl-backed legislation.
"But in the short run, it's not going to scare any local politicians here." The
prospect of a large pool of Latino citizens, eligible to vote, "is just too far
off in the future for anyone to be concerned."

McCain, meanwhile, is virtually a legend in Arizona politics and has long
thrived on bucking orthodox Republican positions on key issues, Espino said.
Even if more Arizonans side with Kyl on immigration questions, he said, "this
would not be enough to cause McCain trouble. He does enough other maverick
things that endear him to the hearts and minds of Arizona voters."

The Kyl-McCain split also applies to Arizona's Republican-dominated House
delegation. GOP Reps. Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake side with McCain, saying the
notion of deporting millions of illegal immigrants is unfeasible. Rep. J.D.
Hayworth,  meanwhile, is one of the most vehement advocates of tightening the
borders and criminalizing  illegal immigrants before addressing guest-worker
questions.

Tamar Jacoby, who studies immigration issues at the Manhattan Institute,
supports McCain's approach but says Kyl should not be dismissed as someone
seeking to score political points. Both McCain and Kyl "are reformers or
would-be reformers," she said, noting their similar efforts to tighten control
of border crossings.

"Kyl is not grandstanding for his reelection," Jacoby said. But his notion that
millions of Mexicans will willingly return home after working in the United
States for several years is unrealistic, she said. McCain's emphasis on helping
such workers become citizens invested in their adopted country is the better
long-range bet, she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              28 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       January 12, 2006 Thursday 12:00 PM

Ambassador Discusses U.S.- Mexico Relations;
Proposed Fence Highlights Immigration Issues

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Ambassador of Mexico to the United States

LENGTH: 3831 words

HIGHLIGHT: A bill passed in the House of Representatives last month is proposing
the construction of a nearly 700-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexico border, one of
the most prominent measures in recent history aimed at discouraging illegal
immigration. The Border Protection, Anti-Terrorism, and Illegal Immigration
Control Act would also classify illegal immigrants as felons and impose harsher
penalties on those who assist them.


A bill passed in the House of Representatives last month is proposing the
construction of a nearly 700-mile fence along the U.S.-Mexico border, one of the
most prominent measures in recent history aimed at discouraging illegal
immigration. The Border Protection, Anti-Terrorism, and Illegal Immigration
Control Act would also classify illegal immigrants as felons and impose harsher
penalties on those who assist them.

The proposal has sparked a new round of debate on a long contentious issue.
Mexican President Vicente Fox has called for immigration reforms that would
benefit the many Mexicans living in the U.S. Relations between the two nations
have at times been strained since 9/11 as concerns over security and terrorism
have clouded the border issue. Fox has publicly opposed the fence, calling it
"shameful" and damaging to democracy. In a joint meeting Monday, Mexico and its
Central American neighbors announced their opposition to the bill, saying it is
unnecessarily harsh in its attempt to criminalize the estimated thousands of
people that attempt to cross the border into the U.S. each day.

Carlos de Icaza , Ambassador of Mexico to the United States, was online
Thursday, Jan. 12, at noon ET to discuss U.S.-Mexico relations, immigration
issues and Mexico's opposition to a U.S. proposal to build a fence along the
border.

Read Marcela Sanchez 's column on the proposed fence: That Divisive
Anti-Immigrant Fence , ( Post, Jan. 6, 2006 )

La divisiva valla antimigratoria , ( Post, Jan. 6, 2006 )

World Opinion Roundup : Proposed Wall Divides the Americas.

The transcript follows.

Biographical Information:

Ambassador de Icaza was born in 1948, is a career diplomat and joined the
Mexican Foreign Service in 1970 as Vice-consul. He was promoted to the rank of
Ambassador in 1982.

Ambassador de Icaza has represented Mexico in several multilateral meetings of
the United Nations, the Organization of the American States, the International
Labor Organization and Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).

Ambassador de Icaza has published two books on international relations and has
received decorations from 17 countries.

____________________

Marcela Sanchez: Good afternoon everybody, welcome! Buenas tardes a todos,
bienvenidos! During the next hour, I will be hosting Mexican Ambassador Carlos
de Icaza who has agreed to answer questions about the important and difficult
issue of immigration. Please feel free to ask in Spanish if you are more
comfortable (envV3us preguntas en espa[tilde] si asB/ prefiere)? But let's
begin. Bienvenido embajador y muchas gracias por su tiempo. Welcome ambassador
and thanks so much for your time. I am taking the prerogative as a host to start
with a question that a few readers have been asking but I would like to
summarize.

_______________________

Marcela Sanchez: You attended Monday's meeting in Mexico City, some readers
would like to know what gives other governments the right to get involved with
this issue that should concern only Americans. What's more, some officials in
this city might not tell you directly -- after all Washington is known to get
involved in many issues south of the Rio Grande -- but they fear that anything
other governments say, particularly Mexico's, may end up being
counterproductive. Why hold the meeting then?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: The immigration issue is not only a domestic policy
concern. The immigration phenomenon goes across borders and involves people
traveling in response to labor market forces. Today in the world we have more
than 200 million people of different nationalities working in the so-called rich
countries. In the US, there are more than 5 million hard-working Mexican
nationals contributing to your economy and our economy. The only way in which we
can tackle the immigration challenge is through international cooperation. In
this globalized world, cooperation is essential among neighbors.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Ambassador, as a legal immigrant who waited in line and
followed all the laws for the privilege of working and living in this great
country, why should Mexicans be given special treatment over others from other
countries?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: We are not asking for special treatment and we do
not favor illegal immigration. We are only stating our willingness to reach an
agreement with the US government in order to achieve a legal, orderly, humane,
and dignified migration flow between our countries.

_______________________

Dallas, Ga.: Could the Ambassador please explain the rationale behind the
tacitly expressed opinion that their citizens have some kind of right to enter
America less than legally if they want to?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: We are not saying that citizens have the right to
enter any country illegally. We are also a country of laws. Illegality is
something that happens when immigration is left to market forces instead of
regulating it through international cooperation. Mexico, as the United States,
strives for legal immigration.

_______________________

Detroit, Mich.: What is "shameful" (as stated by President Vicente Fox) about a
country protecting its borders? Why can't a country decide for itself who it
will admit for immigration? There are many places around the world where people
have to flee for their lives (Rwanda, Sudan, etc.). When the U.S. puts up with
illegal immigration from Mexico, it makes it only harder for people with more
legitimate needs to come to this country.

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: We respect the right of every country in the world
to protect its border. But at the same time, we have to acknowledge that there
is a de facto labor market complementarity between our countries. The US economy
demands every year around 500,000 low-skilled workers and only offers around
5,000 visas for this category. We have to match the realities of the market with
the security needs. There needs to be a balance between these concerns. Because
what happens today is that there is a double standard. On the one hand,
migration is encouraged, and on the other, there is no legal way to meet the
market demands. What we propose is to recognize that immigration is a shared
responsibility and that international cooperation is essential, especially
between countries that are partners, friends and neighbors.

_______________________

Cranford, N.J.: NAFTA was supposed to integrate the economies of both countries.
If this was done how come the Mexican economy not kept up with the job growth
needed to sustain the [population] growth in Mexico? Should not the Mexican
government eliminate the corruption that is prevalent in Mexico? To make the
economy more viable?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: NAFTA is a free trade agreement, nothing less
nothing more. It has made our countries partners in trade. Our economy is doing
quite well these days. We have sound economic policies and the country is
growing. The American economy is 15 times the size of Mexico's. No matter how
well we do, there is a great magnet of attraction for migrants that want better
jobs and opportunities. In addition, the US economy is demanding foreign workers
for many jobs. We have come a long way in reshaping our economy and political
life, including the fight against corruption. We know that we have a long way to
go on this path. Immigration issues have a lot to do with supply and demand.

_______________________

Dallas, Ga.: The perception the American public has is that the Mexican
government has no interest in securing their side of the border and nothing but
hostility to us trying to secure our side. One assumes that Mexican nationals
understand that crossing the border without documentation is illegal. Do our
southern neighbors hold the law in such contempt that attempted enforcement is a
cause for such rancor? And exactly why does Mexico feel that their
border-jumping citizens deserve anything from our government other than summary
deportation?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: I don't share your opinion about the perception. We
have achieved an unprecedented level of cooperation on security matters with the
US. Today we are partners in the fight against terrorism, we cooperate in
fighting against smugglers, traffickers and organized crime. The millions of
hard-working Mexicans in this country came attracted by the jobs that your
economy is offering. They are honest people, forced to live in the shadows, in
many cases frequently object of abuse. Every human being has the right to be
respected. That is what the US, Mexico and all civilized nations believe in.

_______________________

East Windsor, N.J.: Ambassador Icaza,

I find the opposition from Mexico and other Latin-American governments to the
fence a little hypocritical. They argue about immigrants' human rights (and
rightly so) but they don't do much to discourage illegal immigration in the
first place, because they obviously know that the economic/social situation in
their countries would be extremely difficult to sustain with those thousands of
jobless people that decide to emigrate to the U.S. searching for jobs not
available in those countries (even though the goofy Mexico's press Secretary
says otherwise). Don't you think is time for Mexico to stop depending so much on
illegal immigration to the U.S.?

Thanks!

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Fences don't always make good neighbors. If we are
going to face the challenges of the 21st century in North America, we need to
cooperate as partners on trade, in the fight against terrorism, as well as find
a way to work together to accomplish a safe, humane, legal and dignified
migration flow between our countries. Fencing is not the way to construct a
better understanding.

One must also understand that the magnet of the American economy attracts
migrants regarding how well or how bad we do in our own economy.

_______________________

Munich, Germany: The thought of a wall between NAFTA partners is quite strange
from a European perspective, where citizens of the EU can chose to live and work
in any other country within the European Union.

Do you think that the NAFTA agreement will ever broach the issue of residency
and employment within the member countries Mexico, United States and Canada?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Europe has been a source of inspiration for the rest
of the world. If in North America we are going to face the challenge of Asian
economies, we need to increase our ability to compete in the globalized market.
Instead of fences, let there be more bridges. Recently, the US, Canada and
Mexico launched a Security and Prosperity partnership (SPP), which aims to make
our economies more resilient and our security stronger. If we are going to
further integrate North America, we need to find a balance between security
concerns, economic opportunities, and immigration issues. We have to recognize
that our ability to compete in international markets depends on our resolve to
face the immigration challenge.

_______________________

Maryland: If you do not favor illegal immigration and you are willing to reach
an agreement with the US government in "order to achieve a legal, orderly,
humane, and dignified migration flow", then why is Mexico oppose to building a
fence along the border? Wouldn't a fence deter illegal immigration?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Fences will not suffice to deter illegal
immigration. Enforcement-only initiatives will not solve the dilemma, because
there is a real demand from the US economy for foreign workers.

_______________________

Guatemala City, Guatemala: Would the Ambassador care to comment on how Mexico
treats undocumented migrants in Mexico? While there is no fence, per se, the
abuse of migrants by Mexican officials is legendary, as is the subsequent
impunity for such action.

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: This is an important point you raise. My government
is committed to decisively improve the way undocumented persons are treated in
my country. Most of them, by the way, are crossing Mexico to reach the United
States.

We have less resources than the US to cope with the increasing flow of migrants
through Mexican territory. As of 2005, we deported 250,000 people, which
represented a great effort on our part. This shows that no single country can
cope by itself with such a challenge.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: There is really no end in sight for illegal immigration as long
as there is such a huge difference in income and opportunities between the U.S.
and Mexico/Calif. And, there is no way that most of these immigrants would ever
qualify for a legal visa to the U.S.

I work with recent immigrants in Northern Virginia. When I see a mom who worked
earning $50/week in El Salvador, and feels the only way she can support her
three kids is to get a job up here, she really doesn't have many good
alternatives.

We say "we all came here legally", but for past immigrants to the U.S., "legal"
meant paying for a ship ride and having $30 in your pocket upon arrival. A huge
proportion of our immigrant ancestors would never have made it here under
current visa requirements.

So, I don't think that a wall is the answer. Could the U.S. work on really
serious, hard-core development projects in Central America to help these
countries reach a higher economic status? Should we say "we use 25% of the
world's resources with 5% of the population; lets let our neighbors who had
worse luck (they are certainly not less hardworking or enterprising) have more
of a share of this?" -- I know that this is not popular in the U.S. culture
where we always want more and more, but maybe the only real alternative is
accepting that we will share a little of our incredible bounty with our
neighbors who want to come here and work hard.

What a thought.

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Your point is well taken. We have to understand the
links between economic development and immigration flows. That is why it is so
important that we work together in bringing more economic opportunities, trade,
investment and integration in the Americas. We are very committed to this idea.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Ambassador: Do you agree that subtle, quiet and active
diplomacy and lobbying in Congress on this issue are more effective in
Washington than bombastic, nationalistic and over the top statements made
against the US from Mexico City? Aren't you frustrated sometimes with the words
coming out of Mexico City's press conferences?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Immigration debate in both countries have quite an
emotional component. We are free countries and everybody has the right to give
their own opinion. I am confident that reason will prevail. The US and Mexico
are partners in trade, partners in the fight against terrorism, and partners in
the fight against organized crime. Why can't we be partners on immigration, and
work together to regulate the immigration flow between our countries? No, I am
not frustrated because the majority of the people in the US and Mexico want our
neighborliness to be a source of understanding, friendship and cooperation.

_______________________

San Diego, Calif.: What is Mexico willing to do in terms of dealing with
immigration?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Mexico wants to be a partner with the US regarding
immigration issues. For more than a century, there has been a constant flow of
immigration between our countries, helping both of our economies and our
peoples. We have to recover the circularity. That means building a legal way for
migrants to work in work in the US and return home. For over thirty years, we
have had an agreement with Canada that works well. That means that every year,
when two countries work together, they can share responsibilities such as
training, background checking, covering insurance, and having proper labor
contracts. If we could achieve such an agreement, both of our economies would
benefit. Obviously, we are willing to do our share.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md.: Mr. Ambassador, I don't have a question, but wanted to
comment on what the U.S. government is doing in response to our immigration
problems. First, as an American I feel the need to apologize to you, the people
of Mexico, and the rest of Latin America for the wall we are about to build.

Our Republican congress deals in black and white, in the absolutes that the real
world does not. To them, building this wall is nothing more the friendly
neighbor who puts up a privacy fence so you can't see their swimming pool. The
wall will further antagonize skeptical leaders such as Hugo Chavez and the newly
elected president of Bolivia. What they fail to see is how this wall - this
barrier - is a visceral and tangible extension of Bush's failed foreign policies
in Latin America.

For the perceptions of America that that will cause in your country and others,
I personally apologize.

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: You need not apologize. In immigration issues, we
all have to work together. Everyday I receive calls from American friends
commenting how committed they are to the friendship between our countries. I
believe that if we place the human dimension of our understanding at the center
of our relationship, we will be able to solve together any issue that arises, no
matter how complex it is.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Do you believe that the current controversy within Mexico toward
these congressional proposals on immigration will be a major factor in this
year's presidential election? Can you shed any light on where the major
candidates (Obrador, Calderon, Medrazo) stand on this issue?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: In an election year, every party has its own stand
on the political issues. Nevertheless, in the case of Mexico, there is common
ground among the different political forces, such as our willingness to engage
in serious discussions with the US to negotiate an immigration agreement. The
need to recognize the contribution of migrants to both our societies and the
demand that their human rights are respected. The need to have a secure, legal,
orderly and humane migration flow between our countries. Obviously, migration is
a big issue in both countries.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Mr Ambassador:

But you do appear to be asking us to stop a measure that seems to be our last
best hope to control the illegal alien problem...what would you even suggest
that could remedy that situation. Many of us here see all Latin American
countries as opposing this and favoring amnesty especially because of the
economic gains you receive when workers send money home.

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: The best hope for the control of immigration is a
comprehensive reform that balances security concerns with the realities of the
economy.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: I have asked this question of others, and the answer is usually
the same: interesting theory but impractical to execute. So, let me ask: is
there any way you could see making this possible, or is if just an interesting
but impossible dream?

Mexico has a relatively less wealthy economy, which is why Mexican employees go
to the United States for higher wages. At the same time, Mexico is rich in
resources such as oil and agriculture, many of which are supported by American
investments. If we in America could provide greater investment in Mexico under a
condition that employees are paid more decent wages, and if we could assist in
the expansion of the Mexican economy, especially in oil (rather than buying so
much from the Middle East), both countries gain. What is preventing this from
happening?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: That is not happening because we do not have an
institionalized dialogue on immigration issues between our countries. Until
there is a comprehensive immigration reform in the US, it will be very difficult
to have an objective debate on this important issue.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: Mr. Ambassador, Could you please explain the rationale behind
the hiring of a US lobbying firm to promote Mexico's position on the proposed
security measures? How would you explain to the American public that the Mexican
government is attempting to sway public policy in its favor and to our potential
detriment in terms of securing our borders? Thank you.

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: We are not hiring any lobbying firm. We have hired a
PR agency for image and media purposes only.

_______________________

Atlanta, Ga.: But we in the US are compelled by our own problems, for example
the rising cost of health care. Do you know that in border states health care at
ER's for illegals is bankrupting our healthcare institutions. Most of the money
for these services comes out of U.S. citizens taxes. As Americans we are among
the most generous to countries around the world in the face of disaster. We need
to take care of ourselves and Mexico needs to care for its citizens. This makes
you look as if you are unwilling to provide those humane circumstances for your
citizens. How can you see it any other way?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: If there were a comprehensive immigration reform,
healthcare issues could be dealt with more adequately. For instance, last year
undocumented migrant workers contributed more than 7 billion dollars to Social
Security that went unclaimed. It is obvious that if they were authorized
workers, these contributions would have been useful for the welfare system.

_______________________

Berkeley, Calif.: How can the US and Mexico better fight human trafficking?
What, in your view, is a superior alternative to a border fence?

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Recently, we launched a joint US-Mexico operation
called OASSIS, which means Operation against Smugglers, Security Initiative.
With this partnership, we have had important results fighting against this
scourge. The alternative to a border fence is expanding cooperation in order to
fight together the criminals that are endangering the lives of innocent people.

_______________________

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza: Mexico and the US share a solid friendship. With a
spirit of understanding, partnership and cooperation, I am confident that we can
face any challenge.

I would like to express my appreciation to the Washington Post for giving me the
opportunity to respond, and to the many readers for their insightful questions.

Thank you all and Happy New Year!

Carlos de Icaza

_______________________

Marcela Sanchez: Thanks so much Ambassador de Icaza, you've been more than
generous with your time and answers. Thank you also to everyone who joined us.
Have a wonderful day! Feliz dF0ara todos!

_______________________

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Isn't an Affair of States

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 182 words


Does Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) think immigration policy enforcement is a
local issue ["Illegal Immigration at Forefront of Campaign," Metro, Sept. 30]?
The way he talks about state legislation to further restrict illegal immigrants,
you'd think Virginia could clear things up single-handedly.

As a resident of Annandale who is involved in working on solutions to problems
with day laborers in our area, I'd like to set something straight:

Herndon has caught flak  for trying to set up a labor center to alleviate
congestion at a busy intersection. Why? Because the public doesn't want tax
dollars spent on helping illegal immigrants get jobs. Okay, so we don't spend a
dime, and the status quo endures. The situation will get worse  --  more trash,
more people and chaos.

Immigration policy and enforcement are federal issues. Municipalities don't have
the money or staff to enforce immigration policies, yet the inaction of our
federal representatives in the House and Senate speaks volumes. Where are Rep.
Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.) and company?

JENIFER C. BEAUSOLIEL

Annandale

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              30 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 20, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

FBI Follows Leads in Tunnel Threat;
Officials Seek to Deport Four Men Picked Up on Immigration Violations

BYLINE: Ray Rivera, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 377 words


Federal officials plan to deport four men arrested on immigration charges as
part of an investigation into an uncorroborated terrorist threat that closed a
Baltimore harbor tunnel for nearly two hours Tuesday, immigration officials said
yesterday.

Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency, said all four had deportation orders for various immigration violations
before they were detained and had failed to appear for deportation hearings.

The FBI, meanwhile, reiterating that the threat remained uncorroborated and of
undetermined credibility, continued to investigate. Barry Maddox, a spokesman
with the FBI's Baltimore field office, said that the Baltimore FBI's Joint
Terrorism Task Force is heading the probe.

"It's continuing," he said. "Leads are being followed up."

Authorities closed the Harbor Tunnel on Interstate 95 for more than 90 minutes
and searched vehicles at the Fort McHenry Tunnel on I-95 after receiving a
warning from an informant in the Netherlands that terrorists planned to detonate
explosives in one of the tunnels.

But a high-ranking federal law enforcement source with knowledge of the case
said yesterday evening that the four men had no connection to the informant.
Another federal law enforcement source said the source of the warning had failed
a lie detector test. The sources spoke on the condition that their names not be
used because the investigation is ongoing.

The decision by authorities to close the tunnel was linked to raids that were
carried out Tuesday in Baltimore, the second source said. Investigators sought
several men who, according to the informant, would drive vehicles filled with
explosives through a Baltimore-area tunnel. The source said local authorities
took action at the tunnels about the time of the raids on the chance that, if
the threat was real, the raids would force the bombers' hand.

The men facing deportation are Mohamed Ahmed Mohamady Ismail, 30, Mohamed
Mohamed-Abdelhamed Elsyid, 48, and Suied Muhamad-Ahamad, 28, all of Egypt; and
Ahmad Al Momani, 58, of Jordan.

FBI agent Richard Kolko said authorities hope the investigation will be
completed within days.

Staff writers Sari Horwitz and Dan Eggen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              31 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 16, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Immigrants Sue Over License Process

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B09

LENGTH: 769 words


Thirteen foreign-born residents of Maryland filed a lawsuit yesterday alleging
that the state's Motor Vehicle Administration routinely and improperly denies
driver's licenses to immigrants.

Unlike laws in Virginia and several other states, Maryland's code does not
prohibit illegal immigrants from obtaining a license. Attempts by several
legislators to pass such a prohibition have repeatedly failed  --  with many
Maryland lawmakers arguing that most illegal immigrants are otherwise
law-abiding and that the roads are safer if they are required to pass a driving
test.

Attorneys for the plaintiffs in the lawsuit said they believe the MVA's informal
procedures are designed to bar illegal immigrants, excluding many legal
immigrants in the process as well.

"There have been pretty high-level leaders in the MVA who just don't believe
that illegal immigrants belong in Maryland," said Kimberly Propeack, an advocacy
director with the immigrant rights group CASA de Maryland, which is representing
the plaintiffs. She argues that illegal immigrants fill vital jobs that U.S.
citizens don't want.

"And I also think the process of having to look at foreign documents [as proof
of identity] just seems messy to them and they'd just prefer not to deal with
that," Propeack said of MVA examiners.

The suit, filed in Baltimore Circuit Court and announced to the media at a rally
in front of the MVA's headquarters in Glen Burnie, takes particular issue with a
requirement that foreign-born applicants make an appointment with a specially
trained document examiner at one of eight offices across the state.

U.S.-born applicants can walk into any of the MVA's 18 offices and apply for a
license without an appointment.

Buel Young, a spokesman for the MVA, said the agency adopted the system in
September 2003 because of the challenges involved in verifying the authenticity
of the foreign documents, such as passports and birth certificates issued by
foreign governments.

"You can imagine that we get documents from all over the world," he said. "We
felt that instead of having someone occupy a counter for potentially hours as
opposed to the minutes necessary to process a run-of-the-mill application, this
would be a better way."

Eliza Leighton, another CASA attorney, said a foreign-born applicant often has
to wait weeks or months for an appointment that may be hours from his or her
home.

"That's unequal treatment," she said. "That's not the due process required under
the Maryland constitution."

The lawsuit alleges that many immigrants are turned down because of informal
rules far more restrictive than those spelled out in state law and regulations.

For instance, Ana Lucila Gutierrez, 36, who moved from Panama to Laurel 10
months ago, alleges in the suit that an MVA examiner in Waldorf refused to
accept her rental contract as proof that she lived in Maryland because her
landlord lives in the same house  --  a common arrangement in immigrant
communities.

Gutierrez's husband, Eduardo Enrique Miranda Martinez, said examiners at the
same office refused to accept his Panamanian driver's license even though it was
accompanied by a translation from the Panamanian consulate.

State law states only that a foreign driver's license must come with a certified
translation.

"The examiner said the translation had to come directly from the department of
transportation in Panama," said Martinez, an auto mechanic. "It's very hard
because the companies I want to work for won't hire me if I don't have a
license. And I can't drive my kids to school  --  can't even drive them to the
doctor if they're sick. I worry a lot about it."

The lawsuit also alleges that the MVA regularly turns downs applicants who
present passports without a current visa stamp  --  even though state law does
not require such stamps.

Similarly, the plaintiffs say, the MVA routinely refuses to consider school
records if they encompass fewer than three years of study, and driver's licenses
from other states if not accompanied by driving records  --  even though neither
restriction is specified under the law.

Young declined to comment on the lawsuit until MVA officials had time to review
it.

However, he said the agency "follows the statute and regulations" and added that
"the MVA has had an ongoing dialogue with CASA and legislators and various
representatives of the Hispanic community" on the issues.

But Leighton said she had lost patience after six months of negotiating with MVA
officials. "It was too time-consuming, and it was doing nothing to force the
agency to enforce its own laws," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              32 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 16, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Agency Wrongly Denies Licenses To Immigrants In Md., Suit Says

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 813 words


Thirteen foreign-born residents of Maryland filed a lawsuit yesterday alleging
that the state's Motor Vehicle Administration routinely and improperly denies
driver's licenses to immigrants.

Unlike laws in Virginia and several other states, Maryland's code does not
prohibit illegal immigrants from obtaining a license. Attempts by several
legislators to pass such a prohibition have repeatedly failed  --  with many
Maryland lawmakers arguing that most illegal immigrants are otherwise
law-abiding and that the roads are safer if they are required to pass a driving
test.

Attorneys for the plaintiffs in the lawsuit said they believe the MVA's informal
procedures are designed to bar illegal immigrants, excluding many legal
immigrants in the process as well.

"There have been pretty high-level leaders in the MVA who just don't believe
that illegal immigrants belong in Maryland," said Kimberly Propeack, an advocacy
director with the immigrant rights group CASA de Maryland, which is representing
the plaintiffs. She argues that illegal immigrants fill vital jobs that U.S.
citizens don't want.

"And I also think the process of having to look at foreign documents [as proof
of identity] just seems messy to them and they'd just prefer not to deal with
that," Propeack said of MVA examiners.

The suit, filed in Baltimore Circuit Court and announced to the media at a rally
in front of the MVA's headquarters in Glen Burnie, takes particular issue with a
requirement that foreign-born applicants make an appointment with a specially
trained document examiner at one of eight offices across the state.

U.S.-born applicants can walk into any of the MVA's 18 offices and apply for a
license without an appointment.

Buel Young, a spokesman for the MVA, said the agency adopted the system in
September 2003 because of the challenges involved in verifying the authenticity
of the foreign documents, such as passports and birth certificates issued by
foreign governments.

"You can imagine that we get documents from all over the world," he said. "We
felt that instead of having someone occupy a counter for potentially hours as
opposed to the minutes necessary to process a run-of-the-mill application, this
would be a better way."

Eliza Leighton, another CASA attorney, said a foreign-born applicant often has
to wait weeks or months for an appointment that may be hours from his or her
home.

"That's unequal treatment," she said. "That's not the due process required under
the Maryland constitution."

The lawsuit alleges that many immigrants are turned down because of informal
rules far more restrictive than those spelled out in state law and regulations.

For instance, Ana Lucila Gutierrez, 36, who moved from Panama to Laurel 10
months ago, alleges in the suit that an MVA examiner in Waldorf refused to
accept her rental contract as proof that she lived in Maryland because her
landlord lives in the same house  --  a common arrangement in immigrant
communities.

Gutierrez's husband, Eduardo Enrique Miranda Martinez, said examiners at the
same office refused to accept his Panamanian driver's license even though it was
accompanied by a translation from the Panamanian consulate.

State law states only that a foreign driver's license must come with a certified
translation.

"The examiner said the translation had to come directly from the department of
transportation in Panama," said Martinez, an auto mechanic. "It's very hard
because the companies I want to work for won't hire me if I don't have a
license. And I can't drive my kids to school  --  can't even drive them to the
doctor if they're sick. I worry a lot about it."

The lawsuit also alleges that the MVA regularly turns downs applicants who
present passports without a current visa stamp  --  even though state law does
not require such stamps.

Similarly, the plaintiffs say, the MVA routinely refuses to consider school
records if they encompass fewer than three years of study, and driver's licenses
from other states if not accompanied by driving records  --  even though neither
restriction is specified under the law.

The plaintiffs allege that the MVA accepts eight documents as proof of residency
from U.S.-born applicants that it will not accept from immigrants. These include
a W-2 form, a paycheck or pay stub with the applicant's name and address and a
signed tax return.

Young declined to comment on the lawsuit until MVA officials had time to review
it.

However, he said the agency "follows the statute and regulations" and added that
"the MVA has had an ongoing dialogue with CASA and legislators and various
representatives of the Hispanic community" on the issues.

But Leighton said she had lost patience after six months of negotiating with MVA
officials. "It was too time-consuming, and it was doing nothing to force the
agency to enforce its own laws," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              33 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 26, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Minutemen Misjudgment

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 359 words


The Nov. 13 editorial "Minutemen, Go Home," denouncing citizen volunteers
lawfully acting on their concerns about rampant illegal immigration, was long on
insults and misrepresentation and short on concern for the rule of law and
national security.

Employers who willfully break the law and exploit illegal immigrants are
sympathetically characterized by The Post as victims of harassment because the
Minutemen document their criminal acts and forward that information to the
authorities. Dismissive reference is made to illegal immigrants using fraudulent
identification to work. We remember, even if The Post does not, that it was the
illegal immigrant community in Northern Virginia that enabled several of the
Sept. 11 hijackers to obtain fraudulent IDs, which they used to murder
Americans.

The Post uses economic grounds to justify its callous stance regarding
lawbreaking by claiming that there is "virtually no unemployment" in the area.
Labor Department statistics for September  show the average unemployment rate
for Virginia, Maryland and the District at 4.6 percent. The jobs taken by
illegal immigrants could be filled by unemployed Americans or legal immigrants.
Legal immigrants are undercut in the labor market by illegal immigrants who work
for below-market wages and without standard benefits such as health insurance.

With at least 13 million illegal immigrants in the country and thousands more
pouring in every day, the federal government only recently acknowledged that it
is not in control of the borders. The attention being paid to the issues of
border security and illegal immigration stems in large part from the actions of
the Minutemen. We are not anti-immigrant  --  we are in favor of legal
immigration. We do not seek to enforce the law; we seek for the laws to be
enforced and for our borders to be secure.

Finally, the headline that The Post used for the editorial was supremely
insulting. We are home. We would like the criminal immigrants to leave our home
so that those legally in line may enter and share the American dream.

--  George Taplin

Herndon

The writer is president of the Herndon Minutemen.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              34 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 8, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A17

LENGTH: 458 words


LOS ANGELES  --  A Southern California city became the first in the United
States Wednesday to approve a plan allowing police to investigate the
immigration status of criminal suspects.

After a bitter debate lasting to the early morning, city leaders in Costa Mesa,
a suburban community of more than 100,000 people in Orange County, voted 3 to 2
to join a federal program that trains local police to identify and detain
criminal illegal immigrants.

No other U.S. cities have committed to joining the initiative amid an
increasingly heated nationwide debate over illegal immigration, although Florida
and Alabama allow state police to check the status of arrestees in some cases.

Hispanic activists have argued that police officers have no right to investigate
immigration status and said the plan would lead to racial profiling and civil
rights violations.

But the fact that hundreds of thousands of people cross the Mexican border each
year is fast becoming a major political and security issue.

*  DENVER  --  Brutally cold air spread across the Rockies and Midwest, closing
schools, crippling cars and sending volunteers into the streets looking for
homeless people to rescue. In West Yellowstone, Mont., the temperature dropped
to 45 below zero, shattering the old record for Dec. 7 of 39 below, set in 1927.

*  PHOENIX  --  A convicted murderer who graduated from law school after getting
out of prison was denied admission to the bar by the Arizona Supreme Court
because of a lack of "good moral character." James Hamm, who served 17 years for
his part in a drug-related robbery that left two men dead, had asked the court
to let him practice law even though the state bar association had recommended
against his application, citing the seriousness of the crime and his failure to
own up to his past.

*  CHICAGO  --  Chicago, aiming to follow the lead of other major U.S. cities,
passed an ordinance to ban smoking in most buildings and public spaces except
bars, where smokers can puff away until mid-2008.

*  NEW YORK  --  The head of a group that helps distribute Holocaust reparations
said thousands of Austrian Jewish victims of the Nazis may receive some money
within weeks after a judge dismissed litigation blocking the payouts. Gideon
Taylor, executive vice president of the Jewish Claims Conference, said initial
payouts for up to 19,000 victims or their heirs could begin early next year.

*  NORWALK, Ohio  --  Michael and Sharen Gravelle, who are accused of keeping 11
adopted special-needs children in cages, spanked them with a board if they got
out and forced at least one to live in a bathroom for urinating in his
enclosure, Huron County sheriff's Lt. Randy Sommers said in a custody hearing.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              35 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 478 words


Legislation to choke off illegal immigration, at the border and in the
workplace, cleared a key House committee yesterday despite strong objections
from Democrats who said immigration reform must also deal with the 11 million
illegal immigrants already in the country.

The Judiciary Committee approved the measure on a party-line 23 to 15 vote. That
set  up a vote in the full House next week before Congress adjourns for the
year.

The 169-page bill goes beyond increasing border patrol agents and equipment to
enlist military support in border surveillance and reimburse local law
enforcement in border areas for help in combating alien smuggling and illegal
entry.

It requires the Homeland Security Department to detain until removal all who try
to enter the country illegally and sets new mandatory minimum sentences on
smugglers and people convicted of reentry after removal.

Illegal presence in the country, now a civil offense, would become a federal
crime. Three  convictions for drunken driving would become a deportable offense
for legal immigrants.

All employers in the country would be required to participate in a verification
system under which the government would confirm that a worker or a job applicant
has legal status.

The bill, said its sponsor, committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
(R-Wis.), "will help restore the integrity of our nation's borders and
reestablish respect for our laws by holding violators accountable."

President Bush has demanded that Congress address the illegal immigrant issue.
He has also proposed a guest-worker program that could allow illegal immigrants
to stay in the country temporarily to fill jobs unwanted by Americans.

Congressional negotiators were near a deal yesterday on a defense bill that
would put into law a ban on  torture and other inhumane treatment of detainees,
a step the White House has opposed.

A congressional aide said House Republicans had accepted the amendment pushed by
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), which  swept through the Senate 90 to 9 despite
fierce White House opposition.

House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) would not say
whether the McCain amendment would be in the defense authorization bill.

The Bush administration said yesterday that it supports a House plan for an
extra $1 billion to help poor families pay heating bills this winter, an amount
that Democrats say is not enough, with fuel prices at record highs.

"We're facing real challenges this winter, and we are focusing on that," Energy
Secretary Samuel W.  Bodman told reporters on a cold day outside the White House
after meeting with President Bush.

Bush supports $2.2 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program
(LIHEAP). Last winter, LIHEAP spent the same amount to help poor and elderly
Americans pay their heating bills.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              36 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 4, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Measure Targets Juveniles in U.S. Illegally

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins

SECTION: Metro; B05 , RICHMOND NOTEBOOK Chris L. Jenkins

LENGTH: 593 words


Juveniles accused of committing an adult crime and believed to be illegal
immigrants would have to be reported to federal immigration officials under a
bill passed by a House of Delegates committee.

Del. John S. "Jack" Reid (R-Henrico), who sponsored House Bill 1046, has said
that the bill would help enforce immigration law and potentially help round up
gang members who are in the United States illegally.

Opponents of the measure, which passed the Courts of Justice Committee, said the
bill was drawn much too broadly because it targets youths who have not been
convicted of a crime.

The bill, which goes to the House floor, is part of an effort by some members of
the General Assembly to crack down on illegal immigration. On Thursday, the
House of Delegates gave final passage to a measure that would bar illegal
immigrants from Virginia public colleges and another that would bar them from
receiving in-state tuition. Those bills go to the Senate, where they have been
defeated in previous years.

The Virginia House has joined the Senate in passing a measure to repeal the
death penalty for those who commit capital crimes as minors.

The move is in response to a March decision by the U.S. Supreme Court that it is
unconstitutional to execute juvenile offenders, which effectively halted the
practice in Virginia. Previously, the state had allowed executions of those who
committed capital crimes at 16 or 17.

House Bill 45, sponsored by Del. Vincent F. Callahan Jr. (R-Fairfax), was
approved 63 to 34. But several members said they believe the Supreme Court went
too far.

One delegate, in opposing the bill during a floor debate Thursday, invoked
several victims of Lee Boyd Malvo, one of the two convicted snipers who
terrorized the Washington region in 2002. He was 17 when he committed the
crimes.

"The real issue is whether this evil is so profound that it warrants the
ultimate penalty," said Del. Robert B. Bell (R-Charlottesville). "I say that we
send a message that it does."

Several supporters said although they oppose the Supreme Court decision, it is
important for Virginia law to comport with the federal decision.

"This is an important bill. . . . The Supreme Court has said our law is
unconstitutional," said Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), chairman of the House
Courts of Justice Committee. "If you can't make the Virginia code something that
someone can open up and read and realize that this is the law of the land, then
you're not doing your job."

A similar bill, SB 362, passed the Senate 34 to 3 on Tuesday.

The House gave preliminary approval to a bill that would establish a three-day
sales-tax hiatus on school needs starting the first Friday in August.

HB 532 would establish an annual "tax holiday" on all clothes, shoes and school
supplies that retail for $100. It would also apply to computers that cost as
much as $1,500 and software up to $500.

Supporters said the bill would offer a tax break on essential purchases to many
Virginia families. If the measure passes the General Assembly and is signed by
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), it would take effect this year.

A dozen states and the District of Columbia have similar sales-tax holidays.
Proponents of the House bill said the break would help state retailers compete
with merchants in nearby North Carolina, Tennessee and Maryland, which also will
have sales-tax holidays this year.

The tax break would cost $4.1 million in its first year and $5.2 million by
2011, according to a fiscal impact analysis released by the House Finance
Committee.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              37 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Hard Lessons in Immigration Law;
Undocumented Students Put College Hopes in Va. Tuition Bill

BYLINE: Susan Kinzie, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1428 words


Lidia Pereyra knows there are plenty of people who think that taxpayers
shouldn't pay any part of her tuition  --  and that families such as hers should
have stayed out of the United States.

But if she couldn't finish college . . .

She stopped and briefly closed her brown eyes, rimmed with green shadow.

"I don't know," she said.

She knows full well that her future without a college degree would be like the
least of her present. More hours working as a receptionist at a car dealership
and as a store clerk. No more anatomy classes. No career as a nurse
practitioner.

"I don't want the thought," she said.

Pereyra assumed she would be a legal, permanent resident by the time she got to
college. Now, at 20, the oldest child in a family that came to  a farm in
Winchester from Mexico about a decade ago, she is caught up in a debate over
illegal immigration that has grown in intensity across the country and recently
become acute in Virginia.

Some Virginia lawmakers have pushed bills to keep illegal immigrants out of
state colleges entirely  --  so far, unsuccessfully. Pereyra had pinned her
hopes to a bill  --  which reflected a real shift in the political climate and
was passed overwhelmingly by the state Senate  --  that would help students like
her. It would allow some undocumented students with long-standing ties to
Virginia to pay in-state tuition.

But an informal opinion from a deputy attorney general froze that possibility
for this year.

A much-debated federal law bans states from giving benefits to students who are
not here legally if the benefits aren't available to U.S. citizens. The opinion
warned legislators that the bill would force schools to open up the in-state
rate to students throughout the country.

Hearing that, a House subcommittee voted to carry the bill over. But the
lawmakers didn't kill it.

"We've not seen the end of it, that's for sure," said Del. Thomas Davis Rust
(R-Fairfax), chairman of the higher education subcommittee.

That's because it's a question not only of cost  --  out-of-state tuition is
about three times as much, enough to tip the balance from a college degree to
nothing at all for some  --  but of identity.

For critics, undocumented residents are illegals  --  freeloaders who take away
jobs and form gangs. Others see valedictorians, hardworking families and the
American dream hobbled by red tape.

About the only thing they agree on is that the system is broken.

Millions of illegal immigrants have entered the United States in recent decades,
and more than 20 years ago, a Supreme Court ruling established certain rights:
Public primary and secondary schools cannot deny an education to foreign-born
children, no matter how they got here or what their legal status is.

A generation later, some of those kids are graduating from American high
schools.

Their parents' stories are often complicated, with laws broken and laws
followed, rules complied with and deadlines missed, and the children caught up
in the ugly tangle of Catch-22s that follows illegal immigration. Others are
just stuck, waiting for approvals.

Maria Pereyra, Lidia and her siblings left Mexico on a bus about a decade ago to
sneak into the country, she said. They were joining her father, Isidro Pereyra,
who has been a permanent resident for many years, working legally and paying
taxes. They started the application process to become legal residents right
away, but it often takes many years. Two of the children were born in the United
States and so are citizens, but the others need green cards. She's now just one
step away, but she needs to pay more than $1,000 on top of application fees.

As an unauthorized immigrant in 2004, Pereyra found that although she could
enroll in nearby Lord Fairfax Community College, she didn't qualify for in-state
tuition. And she couldn't get state or federal financial aid.

Friends in town jumped in to help, raising money to cover the difference last
year.

This year, she's on her own.

Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr.'s (R-Augusta) bill would ban in-state tuition for
illegal immigrants but carve out exceptions for students such as Pereyra who
have lived in Virginia for years and graduated from high schools in the
commonwealth, whose families have paid taxes and who are actively seeking U.S.
permanent residency.

A bill in Congress estimated that about 65,000 students could be eligible
nationally  --  most of whom don't go on to college. Some analysts guessed
hundreds or possibly even a few thousand would qualify in Virginia.

It seems odd, said Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, to let
people who aren't supposed to be in the country enroll in public universities.
"Then, to subsidize it at taxpayer expense  --  most people in Virginia and
elsewhere think that doesn't make sense." He said it's part of a larger agenda
working toward amnesty for illegal immigrants: "You find the most telegenic,
appealing group of illegals  --  kids who want to go to college. You don't start
with an MS-13 member. "

Sen. Mark D. Obenshain (R-Harrisonburg) said: "We have people who have waited in
line for years to obtain the proper documentation and to obtain legal status,
and in essence, we're punishing them . . . by rewarding those who have chosen
not to follow the law."

Some advocates for immigrants argue that is an oversimplification. "It's not
that they're not trying to become legal," said Luis Parada, a private lawyer who
does pro bono work on this issue. It can take many years to go through the
process. Some have temporary protected status or another legal intermediate
step.

"Colleges in Virginia have been making many mistakes," Parada said, "because
immigration law is so complicated  --  even students who are legally here are
being wrongfully labeled illegal."

Tensions have been simmering in Congress and about half of the state
legislatures. In 2003, Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich (R) vetoed a bill that
would have granted certain immigrants in-state status; another bill was
submitted this session. Nine states have enacted similar laws in recent years,
with ongoing attempts to overturn them.

"There's a multi-front assault that's taking shape on these laws," including
class-action suits, said Travis Reindl of the American Association of State
Colleges and Universities.  There's still a lot of disagreement about the
federal law, he said. "The upshot of that for Virginia is that even if they pass
something they are going to have a target on their back in terms of this law
standing. They're going to have people lined up to fight it."

Lidia Pereyra didn't know any English when she started school in Winchester. She
was 11 years old and scared. She can't remember anything of sixth grade, except
that she wouldn't let herself cry until she got home from school. She knew
education was important even though her parents hadn't been able to afford much
--  her father had six years of schooling before going to work on a ranch, and
her mother, who wanted to be teacher, had to stop at nine.

In high school, retiree Geoffrey Huggins tutored Pereyra in the kitchen, with
the rest of the family staying in the back rooms of the small worn trailer
respectfully. When she could analyze history, her hardest subject, she thought,
"Oh! I'm a student, like the others now!"

Now, she's in college, but she can't afford a full course load. And she knows
the rest of her family wants an education, too.

Her mom was starting to cook a dinner of beans, spinach and ground meat for the
seven of them.

"I've already been to college!" 7-year-old Marcos Pereyra joked one evening
recently; he has gone to the campus with his sister.

Kenya, a sixth-grader, wants to be a teacher. Victor, 13, wants to be an
engineer. Reynold, who's in the 11th grade, wants to be a cardiologist.

Even Isidro Pereyra, striding in with strong hands brown from work and his John
Deere cap low over his eyes, grinned when he thought about it. Go to college? If
he had the chance? "¡Claro que sí!" he said, delighted: "Yes, of course!"

And yet  --  they know how controversial this is. Lidia Pereyra doesn't know
whether she will be able to finish college or whether her family can remain in
Virginia, with too little money and too much uncertainty.

"If it was possible, yes, we would stay here," her mother said. Lidia Pereyra
nodded, long dark hair falling over her face, translating her mother's words
into English. "The laws apply to everyone the same, and at school, too,
everybody's the same. Nobody is seen as less."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              38 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants, Finding Their Voice

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 752 words


By turning out close to a million people in cities from Los Angeles to
Washington for demonstrations against punitive immigration laws, the Hispanic
community has delivered a timely reminder of the often-forgotten voice in this
national debate.

For too long, others with shaky claims to authenticity have attempted to speak
on behalf of the immigrants who are most affected by the laws and regulations
being debated in Congress.

It was not until this month that the first substantial poll of immigrants was
taken. Its findings give the lie to one of the most frequent claims from those
who want to "crack down" on illegal immigration: the assertion that undocumented
workers are resented by those who have come to this country legally.

This week Sergio Bendixen, a respected professional pollster, briefed me on the
survey his firm had just completed of 800 legal immigrants, from 43 different
countries, living in 47 states  --  a cross section carefully designed to mirror
the makeup of the 26 million legal immigrants the Census counts. To ensure
accuracy, Bendixen arranged to interview subjects in their native languages
whenever they requested.

When he probed these legal immigrants for their attitude toward the estimated 11
million illegal immigrants living in the United States, Bendixen asked two key
questions. By a margin of 81 percent to 11 percent, the legal immigrants said
they think the illegals are taking jobs that legal residents and citizens do not
want to do, rather than taking jobs away from them.

And 73 percent of them said the illegals help the economy by providing low-cost
labor, while only 17 percent said they hurt the economy by driving down wages
--  a favorite contention of those who want to restrict immigration.

Backers of the tough House-passed bill to make it a crime to illegally enter the
country  contend that a guest worker program of the kind the Senate Judiciary
Committee  included in its bill this week would allow illegals to "cut into
line" ahead of those who are waiting to become citizens legally.

But Bendixen said the interviews found that "the resentment isn't there." He
said that one woman, an accountant, who gained her citizenship by following the
rules, explained, "I came first-class. The illegals are coming coach  --  they
do jobs I didn't have to do, and they live outside the law."

"She didn't feel that she was in competition with them," Bendixen said. "She
felt sympathy for them."

That mind-set explains the legal immigrants' hostility to the main provisions of
the House bill  --  and also the emotion that pulled so many thousands of
immigrants into the streets for demonstrations during the past week.

Majorities of about 70 percent or more oppose all these steps: arresting illegal
immigrants and charging them with a felony; deporting all illegal immigrants;
imposing stiff penalties on employers who hire illegals or groups that help
them; or building a wall between the United States and Mexico to discourage
illegal immigration.

On the other hand, two-thirds  of the legal immigrants favor President Bush's
proposal to provide work permits for temporary employment, with a proviso that
the recipient return to his or her home country. And even more  --  eight out of
10  --  favor the kind of legislation that came out of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, which would open a path to eventual citizenship for illegals who
remain in this country for an extended period, learn English, pay  fines and
have no criminal record.

That legislation was backed by all the committee Democrats but only a minority
of its Republicans. But Bendixen's survey, completed before the committee vote,
found skepticism among the legal immigrants about the stance of both parties on
immigration issues. Only 22 percent said the Republican Party was doing a good
job on immigration issues; for Democrats, the approval score was 38 percent,
just six points higher than the rating for Bush on immigration.

Bendixen said that suggested to him that "the jury is out" as the current debate
unfolds.

Disturbingly, the survey found that two-thirds of the legal immigrants believe
that anti-immigrant sentiment is growing in the United States, and more than
half said it has affected them and their families personally. Racism against
Latino and Asian immigrants is blamed by more than six out of 10 for fueling
this development.

The demonstrations are a reminder of the risks in policy that feeds such fears.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              39 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Senators Seek Deal on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 737 words


Senate Republicans important to passing a wholesale revision of the nation's
immigration laws focused yesterday on a compromise that would get tough on
illegal immigrants new to the United States while offering those who have been
here  at least five years a path to citizenship.

The talks, led by Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), are
aimed at finding a formula that would persuade a majority of Republicans to
support an immigration bill now backed largely by Democrats. Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) plans to push for a final vote on immigration
legislation this week, but it is not clear whether any measure can muster the 60
votes needed to break a filibuster.

Under the compromise proposal, still in the early stages, illegal immigrants who
could produce pay stubs, billing records or other documentation showing they
have lived and worked in the United States for five years would qualify for a
work visa and an opportunity to apply for citizenship. They could stay in the
country as they apply for a green card.

Those not meeting  the requirements would have to return to their native
countries. New measures in the larger immigration bill, such as a tamper-proof
identification card and sanctions against employers who hire illegal immigrants,
would convince recent illegal immigrants they have no choice but to comply,
advocates of the compromise said.

"We're going to have to compromise and recognize that the 12 million people
[here illegally] is not a monolithic group," Frist said Sunday on CNN, alluding
to the Hagel-Martinez talks. "Some have been here 10 years. They're assimilated
to our society, and they may have a road to a green card. But some of the 12
million people here  --  in fact, 40 percent  --  have been here for less than
five years, [and] need to be dealt with in a different fashion."

The compromise could satisfy some conservatives opposed to any program that
offers illegal immigrants a way to stay in the country and work toward
citizenship, which they term "amnesty." Under the plan, illegal immigrants could
not be put ahead of others legally in the country and seeking U.S. citizenship.
Because long-term illegal immigrants would still have to apply for a green card
through normal channels, they also could not jump ahead of workers hoping to
come to the United States through legal channels.

Some Democratic support could fall away under the compromise, but Frist has been
reluctant to allow such a politically contentious bill to pass the Senate
without most Republicans backing it.

As it passed out of the  Judiciary Committee, the Senate immigration bill now
under consideration would bolster border security and toughen penalties on
employers and others who aid illegal immigrants. But it would also allow
undocumented workers already in the country a six-year work visa and an
opportunity to gain citizenship if they learn English, pay fines and back taxes,
and meet other requirements. In addition, the bill would create a guest-worker
program for around 400,000 new immigrants a year.

That bill has the support of virtually all 44 Democratic senators  and as many
as a dozen Republicans, including moderates such as Sen. Mike DeWine (Ohio) and
conservatives such as Sen. Sam Brownback (Kan.). Aides to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy
(D-Mass.), one of the bill's authors, said the measure could have enough support
by week's end to cut off debate, but it is expected to  be close.

Conservative opponents, led by Sens. John Cornyn (R-Tex.)  and Jon Kyl
(R-Ariz.), back a guest-worker program but say the workers should have to return
to their countries when their visas expire. But some Democratic support could
also falter, as liberal populists argue that the bill would create a pipeline of
cheap labor to drive down wages and harm U.S.  workers.

"I don't think you need a professor to understand that when you import
substantial cheap labor, it displaces American workers," said Sen. Byron L.
Dorgan (N.D.), for now the only declared Democratic opponent to the measure.
"I'm surprised there's any substantial support for a guest-worker program in our
caucus."

Hagel and Martinez are co-sponsors of the Kennedy bill, but Senate aides
familiar with the negotiations say both  are eager to have a fall-back measure
if it fails. Frist is pushing to make the possible Hagel-Martinez compromise the
Republican bill, not a fall-back measure.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              40 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

First a Wall -- Then Amnesty

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 772 words


Every sensible immigration policy has two objectives: (1) to regain control of
our borders so that it is we who decide who enters and (2) to find a way to
normalize and legalize the situation of the 11 million illegals among us.

Start with the second. No one of good will wants to see these 11 million
suffer. But the obvious problem is that legalization creates an enormous
incentive for new illegals to come.

We say, of course, that this will be the very last, very final, never-again,
we're-not-kidding-this-time amnesty. The problem is that we say exactly the same
thing with every new reform. And everyone knows it's phony.

What do you think was said  in 1986 when we passed the Simpson-Mazzoli
immigration reform? It turned into the largest legalization program in American
history  --  nearly 3 million people got permanent residency. And we are now
back at it again with 11  million  more illegals in our midst.

How can it be otherwise? We already have a river of people coming every day
knowing they're going to be illegal and perhaps even exploited. They come
nonetheless. The newest amnesty  --  the "earned legalization"  being dangled in
front of them by proposed Senate legislation  --  can only increase the flow.

Those who think employer sanctions will control immigration are dreaming.
Employer sanctions were the heart of Simpson-Mazzoli. They are not only useless;
they are pernicious. They turn employers into enforcers of border control. That
is the job of government, not landscapers.

The irony of this whole debate, which is bitterly splitting the country along
partisan, geographic and ethnic lines, is that there is a silver bullet that
would not just solve the problem but also create a national consensus behind it.

My proposition is this: A vast number of Americans who oppose legalization and
fear new waves of immigration would change their minds if we could radically
reduce new  --  i.e., future  --  illegal immigration.

Forget employer sanctions. Build a barrier. It is simply ridiculous to say it
cannot be done. If one fence won't do it, then build a second 100 yards behind
it. And then build a road for patrols in between. Put in cameras. Put in
sensors. Put out lots of patrols.

Can't be done? Israel's border fence has been extraordinarily successful in
keeping out potential infiltrators who are far more determined than mere
immigrants. Nor have very many North Koreans crossed into South Korea in the
past 50 years.

Of course it will be ugly. So are the concrete barriers to keep truck bombs from
driving into the White House. But sometimes necessity trumps aesthetics. And
don't tell me that this is our Berlin Wall. When you build a wall to keep people
in, that's a prison. When you build a wall to keep people out, that's an
expression of sovereignty. The fence around your house is a perfectly legitimate
expression of your desire to control who comes into your house to eat, sleep and
use the facilities. It imprisons no one.

Of course, no barrier will be foolproof. But it doesn't have to be. It simply
has to reduce the river of illegals to a manageable trickle. Once we can do
that, everything becomes possible  --  most especially, humanizing the situation
of our 11  million  illegals.

If the government can demonstrate that it can control future immigration, there
will be infinitely less resistance to dealing generously with the residual
population of past immigration. And, as Mickey Kaus and others have suggested,
that may require that the two provisions be sequenced. First, radical border
control by physical means. Then, shortly thereafter, radical legalization of
those already here. To achieve national consensus on legalization, we will need
a short lag time between the two provisions, perhaps a year or two, to
demonstrate to the skeptics that the current wave of illegals is indeed the
last.

This is no time for mushy compromise. A solution requires two acts of national
will: the ugly act of putting up a fence and the supremely generous act of
absorbing as ultimately full citizens those who broke our laws to come to
America.

This is not a compromise meant to appease both sides without achieving anything.
It is not some piece of hybrid legislation that arbitrarily divides illegals
into those with five-year-old "roots" in America and those without, or some such
mischief-making nonsense.

This is full amnesty (earned with back taxes and learning English and the like)
with full border control. If we do it right, not only will we solve the problem,
we will get it done as one nation.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              41 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Pact Offers Permits To Most Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1347 words


A bipartisan group of senators reached accord yesterday on a dramatic
restructuring of the nation's immigration laws that would offer most of the
nation's 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants a work permit and a shot at
citizenship.

The plan would tighten security along the border and create a multi-tiered
system for dealing with undocumented workers. It would make it easiest for those
who have lived in the United States for more than five years to obtain
citizenship and theoretically impossible for those who have been here for less
than two years to stay.

The breakthrough, embraced by two-thirds of the senators, including Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), followed
nearly two weeks of difficult negotiations and cleared the way for a final vote
after the two-week spring recess. But Republican and Democratic aides warned
that the compromise is delicate. Even if it can hold, the Senate plan is a far
cry from the hard-edged measure passed by the House in December, which would
essentially seal the nation's borders and deport millions of illegal immigrants.

Senate and House negotiators and the White House will have to work out a
compromise that bridges the strong differences within the two parties and among
conflicting business, labor, religious and Hispanic rights groups.

"We've had a huge breakthrough," Frist told reporters. Kennedy said the
compromise sends a message to millions of illegal immigrants that "you are going
to be welcome, and you won't have to live in fear in the future."

House Majority Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) cautioned: "We're committed to
trying to get real immigration reform finished before this fall, but no one
should underestimate the challenges we'll have in trying to get there."

Under the accord, as many as 8 million undocumented workers who can prove that
they have been in the country for five years or more before the legislation is
enacted would be granted a renewable work visa, after they pay a $2,000 penalty
and any back taxes, and undergo a criminal background check. After five years,
they could apply for citizenship, provided they remain employed, learn English
and do not commit crimes.

About 2.8 million illegal immigrants who have been in the country for more than
two years but less than five would have three years to return to a port of entry
along the border, such as El Paso, cross the border and apply for one of 450,000
green cards that will be available each year. Kennedy said the whole process
could take less than a day, and the immigrants could then return to their U.S.
homes. However, Republican aides warned that there would be no guarantees, and
that some of those immigrants could get stuck across the border.

Of the 450,000 green cards that would be available every year, as many as
300,000 would go to low-skilled workers, Senate aides say. With a green card,
those workers would also be eligible to apply for citizenship but would not have
a guaranteed path to becoming Americans.

The legal-status benefits under the measure would go to heads of households and
would apply to family members.

Illegal immigrants who have been in the country for two years or less would have
to return to their home countries.

In addition, foreign workers seeking access to the U.S. labor market would be
eligible for 325,000 new guest-worker visas annually. The bipartisan compromise
was written largely by Sens. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.).

Like previous bills, the agreement would authorize the hiring of 12,000 new
border patrol agents, deploy new technologies such as unmanned aerial vehicles,
require tamper-proof identification cards that would replace easily forged
Social Security cards used now to obtain work and ratchet up penalties on
employers who hire illegal immigrants.

"Even though we all feel good about today, it pales in comparison to the
millions and millions of people out there who today feel that they have a chance
to participate in the American Dream," said Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid
(Nev.).

The deal came after days of delicate negotiations designed to persuade
Republicans who had supported a more lenient measure that emerged from the
Senate Judiciary Committee last week to shift their backing to a bill with more
Republican ownership, GOP aides said. The deal began to come together during
marathon meetings last weekend, but Kennedy and other Democrats balked at
joining, insisting that they had enough votes to pass the Judiciary Committee
version.

On Wednesday, Frist turned the tide against the Democrats. That was when two of
the Judiciary Committee bill's primary sponsors, Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and
Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), informed Kennedy that they were no longer with him
and, instead, would back the Martinez-Hagel compromise. Hours later, McCain
announced that he was abandoning his own bill and supporting the compromise
plan.

At a meeting early yesterday morning, Kennedy secured a few changes that
Republicans considered minor, reducing the number of foreign guest-worker visas
available each year from 400,000 to 325,000; increasing the number of
employment-based green cards from 290,000 to 450,000 a year to accommodate the
illegal immigrants who would be required to report to the border to apply for a
green card; and strengthening labor protections for guest workers. Then Kennedy
went to the Senate floor to urge Democrats to sign on.

The deal has drawn ardent opposition from some Senate conservatives, such as
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), who dismissed it as "artificial and meaningless."
AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney said the agreement "tears at the heart of true
immigration reform." And former House speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) called it "a
cave-in" to the Democrats, not a compromise.

Some immigration experts questioned whether the legislation would work. Illegal
immigrants who crossed the border within the past two years are not likely to
leave, said Jennifer Gordon, a professor of immigration and labor law at Fordham
Law School in New York.

Even if new rules make employment more difficult to obtain, undocumented workers
have always found a way to work, Gordon said.

The 1 million or so workers that remain underground would be the seeds of the
next immigration crisis, she added.

Then there are the 2.8 million people who would be required to report to a
border crossing. The government will have to provide ironclad assurances that
undocumented workers would be allowed to return if illegal immigrants are to be
persuaded to leave their families and head to the frontier, said Angela Kelley,
deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant rights group.

"Sure, there's some complexities associated with it, but as compared with the
status quo, it's nirvana," McCain said.

The real hurdle is the House. Democrats were demanding assurances yesterday that
the delicate agreement would not be gutted in negotiations with House Judiciary
Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) and other House
negotiators. McCain promised to produce a letter with numerous Republican
signatures vowing to vote against a final deal that violates the spirit of the
compromise.

House advocates of a border security bill with a guest-worker component say they
have enough Republican and Democratic votes for passage. But House GOP leaders
would have to abandon their long-standing practice of allowing votes only on
bills with overwhelming Republican support.

House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) has said that he is open to some sort
of guest-worker program, but an outspoken group of Republicans have said they
will not allow any such measure to become law.

"The Senate amnesty deal is miserable public policy that will be rejected by the
House of Representatives and has already been rejected by the American people,"
declared Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a champion of the movement to strengthen
the borders and deport illegal immigrants. "It continues the running joke that
is our immigration system."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              42 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Risky Political Waters;
Mel Martinez Wants His Party to Navigate the Tricky Passage of Immigration Law

BYLINE: Libby Copeland, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 1419 words


When he gets nostalgic, the only immigrant in the U.S. Senate mentally reviews
the landscape of Sagua la Grande. Mel Martinez visualizes the street his house
was on, the route to his school. He was 15 the last time he was there, before
escaping from Cuba without his family.

"One of the games I play in my mind sometimes is to go through the streets of my
little home town. I think I can go from here to there," Martinez says, tracing
the air in front of him. "Find my way."

Things are different now, of course. In Sagua la Grande, Martinez has learned,
his grandmother's house is condemned, the roof collapsed. And Martinez, a
freshman Republican senator from Florida in the midst of the debate about
America's illegal immigration problem, straddles a fault line within his party.
There are the close-the-borders Republicans and the Republicans who want to
allow illegals to become legal  --  eventually  --  and who tiptoe around the
word "amnesty" like it's an improvised explosive device.

And there is Martinez, 59, pushing his colleagues to soften their rhetoric,
telling them how valuable the Hispanic vote is, suggesting that a $2.2 billion,
700-mile wall along the Mexican border might not be the right message for the
Republican Party to send. There he is, pushing for a compromise this week that
is going to succeed, and then it's not, and then  --  Wait! This just might
work!  --  and then it falls apart.

In his office this week, he talks about the political danger that lurks for a
party with midterm elections coming up. And always there's the sense that the
issue goes deeper for him because he was an immigrant, albeit a legal one, and
because his first language is Spanish, like many of the immigrants whose fates
are now being debated.

"The danger is we might be perceived as a party that isn't welcoming, a party
that is uncaring, a party that is, uh  --  I'll just leave it at those two,
perhaps," Martinez says, with a short laugh.

There he is on C-SPAN, taking questions from callers.

"You, sir, as far as I'm concerned, are a traitor!" says a guy from Skaitook,
Okla., shortly before he is cut off. "You are allowing this country to be
invaded!"

Martinez's face is impassive. He calmly tells the guy that he takes his oaths as
an American and as a senator seriously. ("From okay to wow," he says later,
rating the calls.)

This is a challenge, and Martinez is trying to balance himself gracefully, one
leg on one side of the fault line and one on the other.

Martinez left Cuba in 1962 through Operation Pedro Pan, in which 14,000 children
were flown to the United States after the Castro revolution. By that point, his
Catholic school had been closed and the priests expelled from the country.
Martinez's parents had become alarmed by what happened when Melquiades, their
eldest, was playing in a basketball game. He was wearing a religious scapular
around his neck and some in the crowd, catching sight of it, shouted, "Kill him,
he is Catholic!"

After arriving in the United States alone, Martinez lived with two foster
families in Orlando. In the beginning,  as he struggled with English, baseball
was a breakthrough. There wasn't much need to talk on the field, but he could
make himself heard with a glove and a bat.

"It was the first time that I was treated like everyone else," he says. "It
gained me some respect; it gained me an acceptance that until then I hadn't
felt."

Martinez worked hard to lose his accent. He wanted to fit in, wanted people to
hear what he was saying. With an accent, he says, "they'd just go right past
whatever you said. I could have said, you know, 'My mother just died' . . . and
they'd say, 'Where're you from?' "

His parents and sister arrived when Martinez was 19 and in junior college.
(Martinez's brother was already in Miami.) By then, he had saved $322 from
various jobs. About $250 went toward the family's 1959 Chevrolet Bel Air, and
"the rest of it was the family fortune," as he puts it. He found a job for his
veterinarian dad at a dairy farm.

Martinez went on to Florida State University, where he met a girl named Kitty in
his anthropology class. Now Kitty Martinez, she was at the time pinned to
another guy, and she remembers writing down Mel's attributes as she tried to
decide what to do: "I don't know where he's going," she recalls writing, "but he
does."

Martinez became a personal injury lawyer and amassed about $3 million. He and
his wife helped resettle Vietnamese and Cuban refugees through their church.
Martinez says that as a young man, he considered himself a Democrat without
thinking too much about it. But, in the early '80s, he was won over by Ronald
Reagan, like much of the Cuban community in Florida. He went into a Cuban
grocery store that was having a registration drive and declared himself a
Republican.

In 1998, Martinez was elected chairman of Orange County, a position akin to
mayor. A friend of Jeb Bush, he co-chaired George W. Bush's presidential
campaign in Florida. The president appointed him secretary of housing and urban
development, and he took over in 2001. In 2004, Martinez ran for Senate at the
president's urging.

The senator's soft-spoken personality and his Horatio Alger story belies a
certain ruthlessness that characterized his last political campaign. During his
Senate primary, Martinez's campaign sent out a mailer accusing his opponent,
conservative Bill McCollum, of being "the darling of the homosexual extremists"
for supporting a hate crime bill including protection of gays. His campaign also
called federal agents who took Elian Gonzalez from his Cuban American relatives'
home in the middle of the night "armed thugs."

Last year, Martinez caused an uproar in the Senate when he handed a Democratic
senator a memo on how Congress should intervene on behalf of brain-damaged Terri
Schiavo, labeling the sensitive situation "a great political issue" for
Republicans. Martinez blamed a staff member; he said he never read the memo
before passing it on.

If that memo was the senator's first big misstep in office, the immigration
debate is his biggest opportunity.

Martinez says he sees firsthand how the immigration debate galvanizes the
Hispanic vote.

"I have had the most casual of people, you know, like the guy who works in the
cafeteria in my building in Orlando, saying, you know, 'McCain-Kennedy,' "
Martinez says, referring to a Senate bill that would have cleared the way for
illegal immigrants to become citizens. The bill died this week. "I mean, people
that you normally wouldn't expect are following Capitol Hill . . . I honestly
don't think there's been any other issue in the history of Hispanics in America
that captured and penetrated with such intensity like this issue has."

But his is also the party of Colorado congressman Tom Tancredo, who has lamented
what he calls the "cult of multiculturalism" in the United States, and has
warned that immigrants who don't assimilate could turn this country into a
"Tower of Babel." Tancredo helped shape a House bill, approved in December, that
would make it a felony to be in the country illegally or to give assistance
knowingly to illegal immigrants. Martinez calls the bill "draconian" and
"distasteful."

"What that wall symbolizes is not what we want  --  the face of America we want
to show," Martinez says.

The stakes are high for Martinez. He was tapped by party leadership to be
visible in this debate, and having his name attached to legislation is
symbolically important.

"I try very hard not to be used in things like this ever," he said in a recent
interview in the St. Petersburg Times. Now, in his office, he puts it this way:
"I think it's important that just because I happen to be Hispanic that I don't
allow those who might have a point of view that I wouldn't necessarily agree
with to utilize who I am, my heritage, to cover for bad policy . . . I don't
mind being the face for my party on this issue as long as I'm reflective of what
I think it is we're trying to do."

Martinez seems eager to reassure those who fear that the country is being
"invaded." He uses himself as an example.

"I didn't come here to change this country," he says, with the slightest echo of
the accent he worked so hard to lose. "I came here to accept and adopt the ways,
the language, the culture of America. I think that's what most immigrant waves
have done through the history of our country, and that's just what this new wave
of immigrants will do if we give them an opportunity."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              43 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Deal Fails In Senate;
Conservatives' Amendments Cost Democratic Support;
Leaders Vow to Try Again

BYLINE: Charles Babington and Shailagh Murray, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1155 words


Efforts to rewrite the nation's immigration laws collapsed in the Senate
yesterday, renewing doubts about Congress's ability and willingness to tackle
the complex, emotional issue in an election year.

A tenuous bipartisan compromise, announced a day earlier, fell apart when
Democrats rejected conservative Republicans' demands for numerous changes, some
designed to limit the number of illegal immigrants who could become eligible for
citizenship. Trapped between the conservatives' demands and the Democrats'
parliamentary powers to limit amendments, GOP leaders conceded a setback. But
they vowed to try again when Congress returns from a two-week recess.

Several senators, including Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), expressed
optimism. But Sen. Richard J. Durbin (Ill.), the second-ranking Democrat, said:
"It's going to be a tough, uphill battle now."

Frist had hoped to settle the issue ahead of the large protests scheduled for
next week in Washington and other cities by Latino groups and their allies. They
oppose a House-passed measure that theoretically would deport the nation's 11
million illegal immigrants and penalize their employers. Some Democrats say the
demonstrations will increase pressure on the Senate to pass more lenient
legislation, but others say the delay might give opponents time to scrutinize
the proposals and raise objections.

Most senators agree with House members that border security should be
strengthened, and the bills being considered would pour money into that cause.
Unlike the House, however, a majority of senators say some longtime undocumented
workers should be given a chance to obtain legal status  --  and possibly
citizenship  --  as a nod to the nation's demand for low-wage employees and to
the unfeasibility of apprehending and deporting millions of people.

The problem lies in crafting a plan that can get the support of at least 60
senators, the number needed to block filibusters in the 100-member chamber.
Frist thought he had achieved that feat Thursday with a bill dividing illegal
immigrants into three categories. Those in the country five years or longer
would begin a route to citizenship if they learned English and paid taxes and
fines. Those in the country two to four years could apply for legal status after
returning to a border crossing for document processing. The others would be
subject to deportation.

But several Republicans, led by Sens. John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of
Arizona, insisted on numerous amendments. Among other things, they would deny
legal status to immigrants who had committed crimes or skipped deportation
hearings.

Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) said the amendments would allow Cornyn,
Kyl and their allies to gut the bill's chief elements. "The people who were
allowed to offer amendments are the people who hate this bill," Reid said of
Thursday's compromise.

With any senator empowered to block the prompt introduction of amendments to the
compromise bill, Reid agreed to only three. Frist demanded at least 20.

Meanwhile, anticipating a fierce battle with the House when it comes time to
reconcile the two chambers' immigration bills, Reid insisted that the Senate
conferees be the 18 Judiciary Committee members. The panel last month approved a
measure similar to the Frist-backed compromise.

Reid cited earlier occasions in which Republicans excluded Democrats from
important conference committee meetings. But Frist said it is "laughable" to
think that a minority leader could dictate the majority party's committee
appointees.

Frist said Reid had "put a stranglehold" on efforts to pass the compromise bill,
whose chief sponsors are Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Mel Martinez (R-Fla.).
Democrats dismissed the criticism and cited the Republicans' inability to reach
accord within their 55-member caucus.

"It proves again that a handful of people in the United States Senate constitute
an army," said Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.).

With the amendment process unresolved, the Hagel-Martinez bill's setback came
when 38 senators  --  all Democrats  --  voted to choke off debate and proceed
to a vote on the bill. That was 22 short of the number needed. Sixty senators
--  54 Republicans and six Democrats  --  voted against "cloture." The six
Democrats were Max Baucus (Mont.), Robert C. Byrd (W.Va.), Kent Conrad (N.D.),
Byron L. Dorgan (N.D.), Ben Nelson (Neb.) and Bill Nelson (Fla.). Ted Stevens
(R-Alaska) and John D. Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.) did not vote.

Frist said the Judiciary Committee will rework the Hagel-Martinez bill when
Congress reconvenes. "Our borders and interior enforcement absolutely require
that we address it," he said.

Yesterday's stalemate was especially disappointing to Sens. John McCain
(R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who have worked for years on
immigration matters. Kennedy had urged Reid to seek a compromise on the dispute
over amendments, sources said, but he did not publicly criticize his party's
leader afterward.

"Politics got in front of policy on this issue, and there's enough blame to go
around," Kennedy told reporters. He plans to speak Monday afternoon at the
"National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice" rally on the Mall.

Some senators in both parties said the Hagel-Martinez bill was moving too
quickly to allow proper scrutiny and to give advocates time to build support.
"When you force-march on a bill this controversial, you run into these
problems," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.).

Some supporters of the compromise bill said they could have defeated the most
problematic amendments from the Cornyn-Kyl camp. But Sen. Orrin G. Hatch
(R-Utah) cast doubt on that strategy. "The Democrats know the amendments would
pass," he said in an interview. "They lost in [the Judiciary] committee, but
they would pass on the floor."

White House Press Secretary Scott McClellan told reporters: "We hope that
leaders will be able to come together and move forward on a compromise bill
after they get back from the recess. There is a willingness to do so. I know
that they are continuing to work it."

When President Bush took office in 2001, the former Texas governor was expected
to make immigration restructuring a centerpiece of his presidency. Big business
wanted more liberal laws, and the issue had political appeal as a way to
galvanize millions of Hispanic voters.

Campaigning in Iowa in January 2000, Bush complained to the Cedar Rapids Gazette
editorial board about a "xenophobic, dark side of American politics" that made
it "easy to pick on the downtrodden. We ought to increase legal immigration for
our country's advantage."

The Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, carried out by hijackers who had entered
the country on student or tourist visas, changed the political climate.
Americans saw the porous borders and the lax visa enforcement as security
threats, and in Congress, both parties pushed for a tougher line.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              44 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Bills May Split Republicans;
Bipartisan Call for Guest Worker Program at Odds With Push to Secure Borders

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 984 words


The Senate will begin work today on legislation to overhaul the nation's
immigration laws and plug its porous borders, but a bipartisan push to create a
new guest worker program has put Senate Republicans on a collision course with
their counterparts in the House.

The immigration question  --  one of the volatile issues in this election year
--  has split Republicans as no other issue before Congress. Vociferous
opponents of illegal immigration are at odds with business interests and their
allies, including President Bush, who are keen on establishing new, legal
avenues to bolster the labor force.

Many Republicans, especially those from the West, have said passage of
legislation to enforce border security is vital to their reelection, and do not
want this merged with other measures that would open up work options for
immigrants.

On the other side, supporters yesterday talked up efforts to open new
opportunities for migrant workers. "I smell victory in the air," thundered Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), at a rally of immigrant hotel workers in Union
Station.

Privately, however, voices on both sides concede they would rather see
legislation die in Congress than accept the compromises that may be necessary to
win passage. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) wants a bill to the
Senate floor by March 27, but aides say the Senate Judiciary Committee could
take three weeks just to draft one.

"This is going to be very, very difficult," said Sen. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.),
who supports a guest worker program and says immigration is one of the top two
or three topics roiling the country. "You've got a lot of emotions on both
sides."

"The gap is huge," agreed Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who has been leading the
charge for a bill that deals only with border security. "I don't think you can
square this circle."

Beginning today, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) will
try, when his committee begins drafting the Senate's answer to a tough border
security bill that passed the House in December with no guest worker plan. The
draft would authorize the hiring of new border agents, the use of unmanned
aerial vehicles and other new technologies on the border, expand the definition
of "alien smuggling" to combat those who shelter illegal immigrants, and toughen
penalties on smugglers and illegal immigrants who repeatedly cross the border.

But the controversy will lie with his new H-2C visa, which could be offered to
hotel workers, cleaners, restaurant workers, meat  processors and other
"essential occupations" by employers who say they could not fill the posts with
a U.S. worker. The visa would be good for six years, after which workers would
have to return to their home countries for at least a year. The visa would offer
no special path toward citizenship or a legal "green card."

Specter said his approach rejects those who simply want to throw all illegal
immigrants out of the country immediately, but it also does not offer a
permanent reward for those who entered the country illegally.

"We're trying to bring 11 million  people out of the shadows, and if you start
by saying you're going to kick them all out, who's going to come out of the
shadows?" he asked.  "But at the same time, you don't want them to benefit from
breaking the law, so let them work, but don't move them toward citizenship."

The White House sounded a sympathetic note toward Specter's efforts.

"We're pleased that Chairman Specter is taking a comprehensive approach to
immigration reform," said White House spokesman Erin Healy, using the
catchphrase for legislation that deals both with border security and employment
opportunities.

But Specter's search for a compromise has been rewarded  with attacks from both
sides of the immigration divide. The editors of the conservative National Review
editorialized yesterday that Specter would offer amnesty to more than 10 million
illegal immigrants and their families, then create a "permanent underclass" by
keeping them in the United States as exploited "non-citizens."

Tancredo called Specter's bill "an unmitigated disaster."

"Words almost fail to describe the threat this bill poses to our national and
economic security," he said. "By legalizing the millions upon millions of
illegal aliens in the country, Specter makes a mockery of our laws and crushes
our already strained legal immigration system."

Kennedy, who wrote a rival bill with Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), called
Specter's bill "a non-starter," saying the guest worker program needed to be an
avenue toward citizenship and suggesting that the uncapped number of visas in
Specter's legislation would be an invitation to exploitation. McCain declared
himself "disappointed."

In an election year, when some Republicans fear they could lose their hold on
Congress, the issue is equally bedeviling. Republican National Committee
Chairman Ken Mehlman has warned his party that an anti-immigrant stand could
jeopardize years of outreach to Latino voters, a position seconded by Kennedy in
his hunt for GOP support for his bill.

"The people on the other side are going to have to decide whether they want to
alienate a whole, growing constituency in this country," he said.

But to Tancredo and his allies, who are facing mounting constituent anger over
what they see as a border crisis, such threats ring hollow. Business groups,
organized labor and religious organizations may have united to back a broad
guest worker program, but opponents say the interest groups are no match for the
anger of ordinary voters. Even Specter conceded yesterday that the term
"amnesty" has become a political pejorative that will be difficult to escape.

"This issue has now achieved a level of preeminence in the minds of America that
it will be a factor in the election  --  it has to be," Tancredo said. "The
political consequences of failure will be dire."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              45 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Scare Tactics in Virginia

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 500 words


IN THE CLOSING hours of Virginia's gubernatorial race, Republicans have settled
on a theme: Be afraid, be very afraid.

Locked in a tight race and grasping for a wedge issue to enthuse their
conservative base, Republicans have seized on the bogeyman of illegal
immigration, which they suggest is costing Virginians their jobs, their places
at universities and  --  this part is unstated, but it's there  --  their
security. In a coordinated effort at fear-mongering, Jerry W. Kilgore, the
Republican candidate, unveiled a spooky television ad starring undocumented
immigrants and criticizing his opponent, Democratic Lt. Gov. Timothy M. Kaine,
for his alleged softness on the issue. At the same time, GOP legislators
proposed a package of laws that, taken together, would have Virginians believe
that the commonwealth faces no greater menace than the 200,000 illegals in their
midst.

The Republicans would bar undocumented residents from receiving in-state tuition
at public universities, even those who were smuggled in as small children and
educated in Virginia public schools. They would broaden police powers to detain
and deport illegals, scrub voter rolls to ensure none could cast a ballot, and
force employers to pay a $5,000 fine for each illegal worker on their payrolls.

They would further ban day-laborer shelters like the one approved by the town of
Herndon, in Fairfax County, if they help undocumented workers. Not to be
outdone, Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) has urged U.S. prosecutors in Virginia to
investigate whether the Herndon shelter, intended to get job-seekers out of a
convenience store parking lot, violates federal criminal conspiracy laws.

As for Mr. Kaine, he is hardly "soft" on illegality. He would bar undocumented
immigrants from access to most state benefits and services and deny them
in-state tuition at public colleges  --  but with that exception for children
schooled in Virginia that Republicans won't recognize. He correctly
characterized the Herndon day-laborer center as an issue best left to local
authorities, not the state.

It's a good bet that the Republican strategy is to use the immigration issue now
to rile up voters, then let it fade away after the election. The fact is that
states are ill-equipped to handle an immigration problem bequeathed them by the
federal government's botched policy. That policy ignores the enormous demand for
cheap labor, sets too low a ceiling on immigrants entering the country and fails
to police the borders. The result is a surge of undocumented workers unheeded by
federal authorities, hired by American employers and exploited as an issue in
election season.

The proper response is to press the Bush administration and Congress to face up
to the problem, not to subject immigrants to a nativist campaign of fear and
loathing. Immigrant-bashing may be an effective headline-grabber. But by playing
on voters' xenophobia, it may also plant seeds of hatred and resentment in an
increasingly diverse state.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              46 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Laborers Choose Barren U.S. Winters Over Risky Migration

BYLINE: Juluana Barbassa, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: PARLIER, Calif.


Acres of leafless vineyards surround this town in California's San Joaquin
Valley, the bare branches a stark reminder that in the middle of winter there is
little work in the fields.

Traditionally, many of the migrants who cross the border illegally to plant and
harvest return home to Mexico by the time the winter fog unfurls over
California's farm belt, emptying towns such as Parlier.

That annual migration has slowed dramatically in the past few years as tougher
border enforcement has prompted fears of capture and persuaded many
undocumented workers to stay put  --  even if there is little work in the United
States.

Jorge Garcia, 26, left the Mexican state of Michoacan two years ago to join two
cousins and a brother working the  vineyards around this town just southeast of
Fresno. Like  about half the men and women who work the fields in the United
States, he came illegally.

He had hoped to go home during the winter, after the vines were pruned. Now, the
fruit stands scattered around this town of 12,000 are empty and shuttered, and
there is little for him to do.

"Going home is too expensive and dangerous," he said.

Garcia and others like him choose to live meagerly through the winter rather
than risk  being captured or dying of exposure when they try to return. He
shares a house with friends and family members, hoping to get through the cold
months by doing odd jobs in town.

Reliable numbers are hard to find, but a January 2005 survey by researchers at
the University of California at San Diego found that 37 percent of  illegal
immigrants returning to Mexico had stayed in the  United States longer than they
expected. About 79 percent of those interviewed said they knew someone who had
remained in the  country because of more stringent border enforcement.

Among those who returned to Mexico last winter, 77.3 percent said they returned
home less frequently over the past five years because it was becoming too
difficult to evade the U.S. Border Patrol, too expensive to pay a smuggler to
help them cross back or too dangerous, the university study showed.

Other research suggests a trend. In 1998, about 45 percent of the nation's
farmworkers said they had spent time out of the country within the previous
year, according to the National Agricultural Workers Survey. By 2002, 28 percent
of farmworkers in the country said they had spent time outside the United
States, the survey said.

The Border Patrol increased enforcement following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, catching 905,065 people in 2003, 1,139,282 in 2004 and 1,171,305 last
year.

More Border Patrol agents along stretches that are easier to cross have pushed
immigrants into rugged desert and mountain areas.

A record 415 people died crossing the border illegally in the fiscal year that
ended in September, according to the Border Patrol. The previous high was 383
deaths in 2000.

Some examples of the drop in migrant crossings are dramatic.

From Nov. 24, 2003, to Jan. 11, 2004, 141,412 immigrants entered Nogales,
Mexico, from Arizona, according to Mexican authorities. That fell to 61,981
between November 2004 and January 2005. Between last Nov. 1 and Dec. 14, that
number fell to less than 18,000.

"Once people come over, they don't go back because they don't want to risk being
caught," said Rogelio Fernandez, a doctor and the associate director of the
Parlier Family Health Center, which serves mostly farmworkers.

University of California at Davis labor economist Phil Martin calls it the
"paradox of tougher enforcement.

"You actually get more people to stay," he said.

One indication of the trend can be found in the public schools, where
enrollments used to plunge in the winter.

In Parlier, the school district has seen its population become more stable in
recent years, a trend reflected in towns throughout much of California farm
country.

Of the district's 3,400 students, 1,545 are the children of migrants, meaning
their families have moved outside the district at least once in the past three
years. That is down from 1,621 migrant students in 2003-2004.

Life can be difficult for those who stay.

A 130-unit migrant housing complex, where a furnished apartment rents for $10 a
day, usually shuts down in the fall.

Last year, 15 of the 25 camps around the state stayed open  as many as six weeks
longer.

Parlier's camp remained open until the end of October  --  one month longer than
scheduled. With the camps closed, there are few affordable housing options.

The town is one of California's poorest, where many residents rely on seasonal
farm work and migrants earn a median income of $6,250. The Community Food Bank
of Fresno, which supplies Parlier with produce and other staples once a month,
has seen demand rise throughout the San Joaquin Valley, chief executive  Sarah
Reyes said.

In 2004, the group distributed 7 million pounds of food to Fresno, Kings and
Madera counties. Last year, the total reached 8.4 million pounds.

Immigrants would rather return to Mexico, where they have safety nets.

But "they're stuck here, living these really deprived existences," said Ron
Strochlic, executive director of the California Institute for Rural Studies.
"They are more of a drain on the system, and it's working in everyone's
detriment."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              47 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         March 20, 2006 Monday 01:00 PM

Post Magazine: Crossing the Line

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Washington Post Staff Writer

LENGTH: 4904 words

HIGHLIGHT: In a tense battle that can be traced to the Arizona desert,
theMinutemen of Herndon are determined to stop illegal immigration. But
doesAmerica really want that to happen?


In a tense battle that can be traced to the Arizona desert, theMinutemen of
Herndon are determined to stop illegal immigration. But doesAmerica really want
that to happen?

Michael Leahy, whose story about the multifaceted and often paradoxical issue of
illegal immigration appeared in Sunday's

"http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/15/AR2006031501766
.html">Washington Post Magazine , was online

Monday, March 20, at 1 p.m. ET to field questions and comments.

Michael Leahy is a Magazine staff writer.

____________________

Michael Leahy: Thanks to everyone who has joined us. I see we have loads of
questions, so let's get started.

_______________________

Paris, France: First, let me say this was a very enlightening article.

My question: should we consider this variety of border vigilantism as a failure
for the institutional (economic and political)treatment of Latino immigration or
as merely another case for the re-emergence of the US
"take-the-law-into-your-own-hands" tradition (elsewhere exemplified throughout
the world)... or both?

Michael Leahy: Thank you for the nice comment and for taking time from what I'm
presuming is a beautiful day in Paris, to read the story. I think the Minutemen
movement -- like most of the activism on both sides of the debate -- has been
spawned by the inability, or unwillingness, of the American political system to
address the issue in a decisive manner. There is always a social restiveness
when you have a political vacuum, when people feel anxious about either their
rights or their security. Both sides in the immigration debate are trying to
take advantage of that vacuum to fill it with their notions of what is right and
what will work. There is profound frustration on both the American political
Right and Left over the a decade of inertia when it comes to immigration policy,
and it has produced some unlikely bedfellows, like John McCain and Ted Kennedy.
There are a number of competing immigration bills pending before the Senate
Judiciary Committee right now, their future uncertain.

Groups like the Minutemen and their rivals are locked in a battle for America's
ideological soul, for its sense of self when it comes to immigration and the
look of America. As both sides in Herndon and Arizona see it, the debate is
reducible to a fundamental question: Are border sacred or should they bend in
the face of a pressing migrration? While that argument rages, border policy on
the southern border is in disrepute, with everyone involved, including American
and Mexican officials, expressing deep frustrations.

You asked a great question to get us started.

_______________________

Guadalajara, Mexico: Excellent article.

Did you get the sense that any of the Hispanic workers were considering getting
involved in the debate on a political level? Is it possible that they might
start campaigning for their voting relatives, their employers or their clients
to vote for candidates to counter the Minutemen's political influence? Or will
it take a political win by the Minutemen before the other side becomes
mobilized?

Michael Leahy: I have a strong sense that Latinos will be mobilizing politically
in Virginia, just as they have in Arizona, California, Illinois and many other
places. While researching in Herndon, I spent considerable time talking to
attorney Luis Parada, an immigrant from El Salvador who attended West Point
while still part of the Salvadoran military, and later received his law degree
from Georgetown. Today, as an American citizen, Parada is among a large group of
well-educated immigrants who have become social and political activists in the
Washington metropolitan area. I suspect you will see several of them run for
office over the next decade, which is reflective of the arc of immigrant
activism in places like California and Arizona.

_______________________

Chicago, Ill: I really admired your story, not only because it was skillfully
written and neatly observed, but you didn't demagogue the issue in your tone or
substance, I thought. I'm finding that is rare with this issue as I read
immigration-related things from around the country. I don't personally care for
the Minutemen, but in a strange way I'm glad they are at least in the debate and
among groups of people raising issues like these, because all the attention
tends to crystallize the discussion and I think we need a discussion, something
that has been missing a long time in the country. Having said that, I wonder if
the Minutemen are aware of how European-centric they sound. Would they be so
upset if we were talking about immigrants from Italy or Britain or France? Do
they have a blind spot on this? And why are they not willing to sit down with
immigrant groups and try to come to some understanding and resolution? Is it
fair to argue that they seem politically tone deaf to the complexity of things
sometimes? Glad you looked into this one.

Michael Leahy: Thanks for writing in. You posed a lot of questions, so let me
see if I can distill them to one question, if that's all right. The Herndon
Minutemen insist that they would feel the same way if the Herndon day laborers
were of a different ethnicity. Clearly, George Taplin spends a great deal of
time discussing Latino laborers in particular. When I asked him about this, he
said it merely was indicative of the lack of foreign laborers from other
countries.

_______________________

Richmond, Va: Congrats on delivering us with such a candid close up of the
Minutemen. Thanks for revealing a group that, misunderstood as they claim to be,
shoots itself in the foot whenever one of its leaders opens his mouth. Do you
have any idea whether George Taplin is getting coached by anybody? And do you
think the Border Patrol would benefit by having hundreds or thousands of
Minutemen down there to assist them because I see that as highly debatable. I
eagerly look forward to your next story.

Michael Leahy: If you're asking (by "coaching") whether the national leadership
of the Minutemen or any other group has somebody giving daily talking points to
Taplin or hovering over his shoulder, the answer is no. As the story makes
clear, his opinions are his own.

Re your second question: The Border Patrol has made it clear that it does not
believe the Minutemen's presence at their April rally last year was of any real
help to its operations. Border Patrol representative say they can't envision any
scenario in which the Minutemen would aid the BP's mission.

_______________________

Detroit, Mich: Superb article. I was pleased that you principally examined the
thinking and motives of a grassroots chapter of the Minutemen rather than the
men at the national level. The grassroots is where these kind of organizations
usually live or die, and where you always get the best feel for what is stirring
the movement. I'm unsure how I feel yet about all that the Minutemen espouse,
but, as the intensity of opinion in your story powerfully reveals, I don't think
the Minutemen can be dismissed as either political clumsy or impotent. The TV
cameras around reflect their skill at attracting attention. I do find myself
wondering about their basic philosophy. Is there an anti-Latino bias there, you
think? Do any of the Minutemen talk much about their own family's immigration
history? Do they see any irony there? Let me just say, too, that I'm a little
put off when I read that a place like Hernndon has to go through a little
charade where they can't say if people at the work center are legal or illegal.
I'll admit I don't know who to blame for that. Probably both sides are guilty
there. Thank you for looking at this message.

Michael Leahy: Again, a lot of questions here. So let me just pick one. Several
of the Minutemen I met are second-generation Amercians (first-generation
American-born) who talked proudly about their parents' immigrant experiences.
They contrast those experiences with the day laborers', by arguing that their
parents came to this country legally. "He followed the law," Bill Campenni said
of his own father, who came here from Italy. Campenni's perspective echoed that
of many comments that I heard.

_______________________

Washington, DC: I have this stereotype of Minnutemen as being all ex. military
men. How true is this? Do you think that their views on immigration are
artifacts of something learned in the military? Is their perspective shaped by
how the military has traditionally approached the problem of immigration? Or is
it just that these guys decided to join the Minnutemen for the same reason they
decided to join the military - out of a desire to fight for their country? It
really seems strange to me that someone would devote so much time to making life
difficult for people that already have it hard - I'm really trying to understand
why someone would want to become a Minuteman.

Michael Leahy: I don't want to issue a speculative view, so let me simply
provide you with some background. Although a majority of the Minutemen I met are
not ex-military, there are a quite a few former military people in the group.
Most readily said that their military service, and what they regard as their
concomitant respect for law and codes, strengthens their conviction that the
legal/illegal discussion matters.

_______________________

Oxford, Miss: Phenomenal job of writing a great story on a controversial issue.
Two over-arching questions come to mind. Is there similar concern by this group
over giant American corporations that outsource work to foreign workers on a
daily basis? Also, if the Hispanic day laborers were of a different nationality
or race and had a larger representative political voice, do you believe the
practices of the Minutemen groups might be as acceptable or palatable to the
American public? Thanks for another intriguing story that is sure to launch many
important conversations on race, economy, and work ethics.

Michael Leahy: I appreciate the kind words.

Outsourcing is a topic that frequently arose during my discussions with the
Minutemen in Herndon and Arizona. In Herndon, a Minuteman named Jeff Talley
spoke of losing his job in an aircraft maintenance because it was being
outsourced to Mexico. So, yes, it was on the minds of several people.

Re whether it would make a difference if the day laborers were Europeans. The
Minutemen deny this. Readers should know that about three million of the
estimated 11 million undocumented people in this country come from outside of
Latin America. There are undocumented groups of Russian, Poles, Chinese and
Irish, among others. In fact, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern is pushing hard
for immigration reform that would enable an estimated 50,000 to 70,000
undocumented Irishmen living illegally in this country to legalize their status
in America on a permanent basis. In that regard, his efforts are much like
Mexico's President Vicente Fox, though in his tone, unlike Fox, Ahern has been
careful to downplay his differences with the United States over immigration
policy. But Ahern's efforts are illustrative of the fact that this issue
involves more than the fate of Latin American laborers and the status of
America's southern border.

_______________________

Cambridge, Mass: Mr. Leahy: Fantastic story. I am probably in the political
center and like to think of myself as open-minded about political groups,
whether mainstream or fringe. I am at points in your story intrigued by the
populist grassroots feel of the Minutemen and at other points repelled by their
America First attitude to all things. America has strained relations with the
world in this era. Do we really wish to add to our divide between us and
everybody else by being so hostile to Latin immigrants and their governments? A
few other things. Do you see any indication that extremist groups have sought to
infiltrate the Minutemen or successfully infiltrated the Minutemen to advance a
racist agenda? On something else, has Mr. Taplin or Mr. Simcox said anything
that indicates they have a larger political agenda, something beyond
immigration? Finally, do you see this day workers site in Virginia staying in
operation for very long, considering how a lot of people involved seem to be
tiring of the bureaucratic muddle and disingenuousness of the thing? Thanks for
such a provocative and engaging story.

Michael Leahy: Several questions are here. Let me take one: No, I saw no
evidence that the Minutemen had been infiltrated by a racist group.

_______________________

Arlington, Va: Hi Michael, thanks for an interesting piece this weekend.

I am posting early, and a little worried that this chat will have a lot fewer
questions and a lot more diatribes than is probably necessary... but I wanted to
pose a question:

In your opinion, under what conditions would radical anti-immigrant groups like
the minutemen be willing to consider increasing the flow of unskilled legal
immigrants from other countries to fill the jobs that are currently being filled
by illegal immigrants?

Or do they simply not feel that this is necessary? And if not, who do they think
would do these jobs otherwise?

Michael Leahy: Sorry - I inadvertently hit the send button before finishing my
answer to the last question. Again, I saw no evidence that the Minutemen had
been infiltrated by a transparently racist group, along the lines of the KKK or
some group of that ilk.

Knowing that it would be absolutely catastrophic to their group's image if such
a link were ever established, the Minutemen insist that they do a background
check of prospective members and chapters to keep out any espoused racists.

To address Arlington's question now: the Minutemen argue that undocumented
laborers have taken jobs from American workers who would gladly fill such
positions if they were paid a decent wage. They contend that the undocumented
dampen wages.

They say that yes, they would be willing to entertain the notion of the day
laborers filling jobs in America, but only after they have first returned to
their country of origin and after America has adopted immigration reform that
would codify an orderly and legal queue into the United States.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: It's ironic to see a questioner from Paris writing derisively
about what he calls "the US 'take-the-law-into-your-own-hands' tradition," given
how many cars and restaurants are burning in France right now. The Minutemen may
be taking the law into their own hands, and I take no view on the rightness of
their cause, but it's important to keep in mind that they are acting
non-violently and within the law (unlike a lot of Parisians).

Michael Leahy: I think this is an appropriate point to post some statements from
readers on both sides of the debate. Here we have a comment from Arlington...

_______________________

Fairfax, Va: Great article. As an American born non-Latino I have great sympathy
for the day laborers. These people wait in the cold for the opportunity to work
doing hard labor without many of the benefits most of us are use to in this
area. I understand the reasons for the creation of the minute men in Arizona,
where there is a need to help immigration police the border, but here? Herndon
doesn't border Mexico! Am I the only one who sees the minute men here as new
form of the KKK? Remember, the KKK denies that they are a hate group and say
that they are about white pride. The minute men deny that they hate Latinos and
say that they are about patriotism. Why are they just going after Latinos and
not non-American cab drivers, restaurant workers, or gas station attendants? Why
aren't they picketing their places of employment, accusing them of being here
illegally?

This might be a Maryanne Haggerty observation, but, I believe the minute men
started in Herndon because the property values in Herndon have not appreciated
as much as the rest of Fairfax County. The reason that they haven't appreciated
as much is NOT because of the day laborers, it is because Herndon has mass
amounts of townhouses and not too much of anything else. Much of the townhouses
are for rent. Masses of any kind in real estate bring competition to lower
prices. Lower prices and rents bring in "lower classes" of people, including
people who need to wait in the cold for the opportunity to work (day laborers).
Minute men want the Latinos in Herndon to leave. They don't want them as their
neighbors; they don't want their children to go to school with Latino children.
They hope that by pushing the Latino's out of Herndon, their property values
will go up - and it won't. They are using the day laborer issue to send a
message to Latino's in Herndon to "go away or we will deport you". The people in
your article made this notion clear.

...just my 2 cents...

Michael Leahy: A comment from Fairfax...

_______________________

Herndon, Va (Yes, I really do live there): I find it very interesting that the
first two questions you took are from overseas; to the snide Frenchman (whose on
country faces their own immigration issues) on American internationalism: you
should be glad we "took the law into our own hands" or you'd be a province of
Germany (spoken by someone whose grandfather and father went to France in 1917
and 1944, respectively).

To the Mexican I ask--why do you not reform your feudialistic society and
economy so that you provide economic opportunity to the multitudes that continue
to endure the unendurable to get opportunities in America denied them in the
country of their birth? That would go a long way to solving America's
immigration problems.

To everyone else--this is not an example of 21st centry "Know Nothingism", it is
a local problem of detiorating properties and rising crime that has been
overtaken by the national media. To everyone who asks why Herndon reacts the way
it does I would ask, "then why don't you ask these people to live next door to
you?".

Michael Leahy: A comment from Herndon...

Dear Reader: I think France and Mexico simply lined up first. Maybe they got up
a little earlier...

_______________________

Washington, DC: I thought this was a great article. The Minutemen were allowed
to speak their piece, and they do make a point of blaming the employer as much
as the day laborer. If they came off at all badly, they have only themselves to
blame (I'm surprised Taplin would not even try to temper his contempt for Latino
culture - the Rio remarks, for example - in the presence of a reporter). Great
work on a very complex issue.

Michael Leahy: A posting from Washington...

_______________________

Baltimore, Md: Kudos to you for breaking through the stereotypes and revealing
the Minutemen and their supporters as human beings instead of caricatures. I'm
not in agreement with their cause, but I do resent the spate of knee-jerk
journalism in some places that writes about all these guys as racists and nuts
as I think that sort of thing belongs on an editorial page. I appreciate
outstanding journalism like yours that reveals the essence of people and their
lives. Troubled as I remain about elements of the Minutemen's goals, I have a
better sense now of what drives them after reading in particular about Simcox
and Taplin. I found your passage about Taplin's background to be especially
fascinating. How was it that you chose to focus on his background and how much
do you think his disadvantaged youth contributed to his getting involved with
the Minutemen? And that leads me to my other question. How much do you think
Simcox's previous life in California led him to do what he is doing today? Thank
you for your penetrating work.

Michael Leahy: I decided to devote a passage to George Taplin's background after
a morning during which he expressed some resentment over the suggestion made by
critics that he couldn't possibly understand the plight of impoverished day
laborers. He told me on that day a bit about his own youth and said, in essence,
that he had never used his own poverty in those days as an excuse. His tone told
me I needed to understand that background better in order to understand some of
the things that motivated him. So we talked about his youth at length one
afternoon.

_______________________

Arlington, Va. : The Minutemen are simply private citizens trying to uphold
federal law. As such, the best analogy for their role is to the volunteers who
escort clients into abortion clinics and restrain angry protestors from
harassing those clients. Both groups are citizens trying to support existing
federal laws (against illegal harassment or against illegal immigration).

Michael Leahy: A posting from Arlington...

_______________________

Reston, Va: I am back -- I (and other neighbors) hired a legal Latino contractor
here on all the correct work visas and liscenes. The MM followed him into our
neighborhood and posed as possible customers by asking my neighbor who he was.
The MM then called our contractor and posed as a potential customer and wanted a
list of his references. He gladly provided them. The MM then sent warning
letters to his custimers saying he was illegal, etc. He did have the proper
documentation, etc. My problem with this watchdog style is they never contacted
the contractor directly to ask him questions and let him justify his position.
They tried to runin his business. I believe in a democratic society we need
watchdogs, but not when they are vigilantes and don't play fair. Our contractor
deserved the right to speak for himself.

Michael Leahy: A posting from Reston...

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md: It seems interesting to me how Taplin couldn't just answer the
question he was asked truthfully: "Are you saying undocumented Latino day
laborers are involved in drug deals in the park?" He really just wants to blame
all the crimes being committed in Herndon as well as other places, on the
Illegal workers. When most likely the sad truth is that drug dealers are ALSO
latino not ONLY latino, as well as african americans, anglos and asians. Also,
when Taplin asked the question about letting one's daughter walk over to the
park mentioned... As a female I don't feel safe walking alone or with a friend
anywhere at night, not even in the Kentlands that is a couple of blocks away
from home! No day laborers trafficking drugs here yet!(major sarcasm). Taplin
and the rest of the Minutemen are hateful people, who should be targeting the
real criminals. Not people that are trying to WORK. They are not Day Murderers,
Day Rapists, Day Child Molesters or Day Drug Dealers, they are DAY LABORERS, for
God's sake! Don't call yourself a christian and be so hateful of another human
being at the same time. I hope Taplin uses his energy on better things, not
promoting HATE.

Michael Leahy: A comment from Maryland...

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md: Very revealing story and I appreciated how you let it unravel
without authorial interference. I could imagine some journalists wanting to
overlay their perspective on everything. My question is about your approach to
these and other kinds of stories you do. Do you go into it thinking you want to
train a lens on people and minimize your own involvement? Do you ever worry that
you're going to let people off the hook if they can spout whatever they want to
spout? I was intrigued by how these characters revealed so much of themselves to
you. When they do this are you pushing them for the information? Are you
aggressive? Passive? I guess I'm asking about technique here. I read with
enormous pleasure your Michael Jordan book and you seemed to use the same terse
lens there. Sorry if I'm off point but on sports could you also recommend to me
another great sports book. Could you also talk about how you think the elections
will go in Herndon? Jumping around here, I know. But thanks.

Michael Leahy: Your questions here are more about the craft of writing than
about today's issue, so why don't you write me an e-mail to my Washington Post
address and we can talk at some point. Thanks.

_______________________

Herndon, Va: I feel the Herndon Minutemen are "filling in the blanks" left
behind by our local, state, and federal government's failure to adequately
control and mitigate the effects of illegal immigration and illegal aliens in
the US.If the Minutemen were not around, what would a viable alternative be?

Michael Leahy: A posting from a Minutemen supporter...

_______________________

Washington DC: Let's be real here. Groups like these use the cloak of
"patriotism" cloak to wrap around the reality of racism. Numerous comments made
by Tipton and the AZ guy showcase racist sentiments. At least the KKK, as
disgraceful as they are, are honest about their racism.

And quite frankly, if they want to help this country why don't their spend their
time volunteering with military families, wounded veterans, homeless, poor, etc
instead of harrassing people who are only looking to work.

And tell the ex-navy guy that Rio is in Brazil, which is a porteguese based
culture, not a spanish based culture such as mexico, central america etc.
Ignorance is a common expression of racism.

Michael Leahy: A posting from a Minutemen opponent...

_______________________

Wheaton, Md: I grew up four blocks from the intersection of Piney Branch Road
and University Blvd., the first area to serve as the gathering point for those
seeking casual employment, so I can attest to the unsightly results. Yet, I
cannot support the actions of the self-appointed Minutemen, because their
self-righteous attitude polarizes the issue and engenders bigotry.

The main protagonist, George Taplin, is a perfect example. After all it is he
who said, "It comes back to their culture. I spent some time in Rio when I was
in the Navy. They didn't respect the land in Rio. They urinated on streets, they
threw trash, bottles . . . When you come here, you're going to do what you did
in your culture. You're going to do what you know."

He seems to be oblivious to the fact that Rio de Janeiro is in Brazil, full of
Portuguese speakers living thousands of miles away from the U.S. - Mexico
border. The fact that he is so quick to generalize should give his supporters
reason to pause.

Illegal immigration is just one aspect of globalization, and it should be
discussed within that framework.

Michael Leahy: A comment from Wheaton, MD...

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: The Minutemen sound like unpleasant, confrontational zealots.
However, I tend to think they're on the right side of this issue. Illegal
immigration unambiguously hurts the United States by driving down wages and
workplace protections for low-income workers. It hurts Latin America by
siphoning away able, intelligent workers. Illegal immigration to the US also
saps political energy for reform in Latin America, allowing corrupt or
ineffective regimes to stay in power longer, prolonging and deepening poverty.
Most Americans don't care about these bad consequences because they want cheap
laborers to keep their azaleas looking good, but this hardly constitutes the
moral high ground.

Michael Leahy: A posting from Arlington...

_______________________

McLean, Va: I don't want illegal immigration to go away. I could not afford to
have my rooms painted if I paid US citizen rates. The choice was between doing
it myself or paying someone willing to do it for $200 a day. The guy worked
probably 14 hours a day. I spent $700 for 6 rooms w/tip. The price quote I had
for those 6 rooms was $3000 and it was going to require a team of 3 painters
working 8 hour days. When I was 20 I worked thwo jobs on top of college. Why
can't US painters work 14 hours a day?

Michael Leahy: A posting from McLean, VA...

_______________________

Arlington, Va : Right now as i submit this comment 23 of my friends are in jail
in virginia,to be deported to sierra leone, these young men and women have been
in the united states for over ten years with criminal free record, paying taxes,
they have kids who are americans,they pay taxes,they dont ask the government for
nothing, but work hard and smart to earn there living. Interestingly,three of
these deportees are nurses,with credentials from american schools ,with the
shortages of nurses you would think the ICE within the department of homeland
security would be smart not to deport these folks.

Michael Leahy: As you can see by these varied postings, opinions run across the
social spectrum. Here is yet another from Arlington...

_______________________

Michael Leahy: Looking at the clock, I realize we have run well over our alloted
hour. Feel free to e-mail me with any additional comments and questions. Many
thanks to everyone for your notes.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A18

LENGTH: 442 words


MELILLA, Spain  --  Dozens of African illegal immigrants who charged across the
border into the Spanish enclave of Melilla were deported to Morocco after a week
of deadly clashes, officials said Friday.

The 73 men from Mali were handcuffed and flown Thursday evening from Melilla to
Algeciras, on the Spanish mainland, where they were put aboard a ferry bound for
the Moroccan city of Tangiers, a police spokesman in Algeciras said.

They were the first group of immigrants to be expelled after Spanish authorities
announced Wednesday that they would send back Africans who made it from Morocco
to Melilla, on Morocco's north coast.

For the past week, increasing waves of men from impoverished, sub-Saharan
African nations seeking entry into Europe have charged guard posts along the
borders separating the Spanish enclaves of Melilla and Ceuta from Morocco.
Eleven people have died in the last 10 days.

ASIA

*  BALI, Indonesia  --  Indonesian police raided a house where one of the
suspected masterminds of last week's Bali bombings was believed to be hiding
out, but the fugitive had fled three hours earlier, officials said.

The pre-dawn raid occurred at a house in central Java province used by Noordin
Mohammed Top. Noordin, 35, is one of two Malaysians accused of planning
Saturday's blasts, which killed at least 22 people, including the bombers.

*  KABUL, Afghanistan  --  Coalition forces who were engaged in combat with
militants opened fire on a vehicle carrying Afghan police officers, killing four
and wounding one. The police were not in uniform at the time of the shooting,
the U.S.-led coalition said.

*  DUSHANBE, Tajikistan  --  Russia is to build an air base outside Dushanbe,
the Tajik capital, officials said, in the latest sign of Moscow seeking to build
its presence in ex-Soviet Central Asia. The move comes as neighboring Uzbekistan
has ordered U.S. troops to leave an air base they have used since 2001 for
operations in Afghanistan.

THE AMERICAS

*  PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti  --  Interim Prime Minister Gerard Latortue said
general elections scheduled for November may be postponed to give struggling
electoral authorities more time to prepare. The planned elections will be the
first ballot since President Jean-Bertrand Aristide fled into exile in February
2004.

EUROPE

*  LONDON  --  Two British hackers were jailed for helping to spread a computer
worm that affected machines around the world, including some at the U.S.
Department of Defense. Jordan Bradley, 22, and Andrew Harvey, 23, were part of
an international group that created the "TK worm." Harvey received six months,
Bradley three.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              49 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 11, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Vigilantes on the Border

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 154 words


I was appalled by the Oct. 2 news story "Volunteer Border Patrols Broaden Reach;
Women, Hispanics Joining Campaign to Halt Illegal Immigration From Mexico." This
one-sided article misrepresented what has thus far been the failure of such
vigilante groups to garner the support they claim to have.

The article gave such groups more credit than they deserve. In reality, only a
limited number of volunteers who have "signed up" have shown up for patrols. On
the weekend of Sept. 16, Friends of the Border Patrol had to cancel its
operations in Calexico, Calif., when only about two dozen people showed up
despite the group's claim that it had "hundreds" of volunteers.   The article
also made no mention of  a large and organized response on the part of legal
observers, immigrant rights groups, students, families and others to prevent the
vigilantes from committing human rights abuses.

ROBERTO HERNANDEZ

Goleta, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              50 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Rebuff to Day Laborers

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 595 words


THIS SUMMER'S uproar over efforts to build a day-laborer center in the western
Fairfax County town of Herndon  --  a center whose principal users would be
undocumented immigrants  --  was the occasion for some self-satisfied smirks
across the Potomac River in Maryland. At least a few civic figures and elected
officials there convinced themselves that Montgomery County was fundamentally
more progressive on the question of low-wage workers, illegal immigration and
much else, and therefore immune to an unseemly, Herndon-style hue and cry. As
Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez  (D-Montgomery), put it, "we do not encourage the
hatemongering and xenophobia displayed in Virginia."

Alas, scarcely a week or two after Mrs. Gutierrez uttered those words to The
Post, Montgomery County was facing its own brawl over a proposed shelter for day
laborers, this one in Gaithersburg. City residents, angry that there had been
little opportunity for public input, denounced the center even as renovations to
prepare for its opening went ahead at a cost to the county of more than
$100,000. Unlike Herndon, which took a damn-the-torpedoes approach to criticism,
Gaithersburg backed down. The shelter there, which was to serve dozens of
workers  --  most of them Hispanic immigrants  --  who currently await work each
morning in a church parking lot, is a dead letter.

Disputes such as those in Herndon and Gaithersburg are both like and unlike
classic not-in-my-backyard brawls. The similarity is that residents are
genuinely, and justifiably, concerned about the negative aspects of day-laborer
centers, including increased traffic, noise, litter, petty crime and impact on
property values. The difference is that the disputes over the centers focus in
part on the fact that many of the laborers are illegal immigrants  --  the
byproduct of a failed national policy. Cities and suburban localities are
dealing with a rising tide of undocumented aliens they have no power to control.
In economically robust places with negligible unemployment, like Fairfax and
Montgomery, attitudes toward these immigrants are deeply ambivalent. On the one
hand, their services are in enormous demand, and there is no one else to fill
their niche in the labor market. On the other, no one wants groups of men
loitering on the corner  --  and so the illegal status of many is used as an
argument against services for day laborers generally.

Montgomery County, where 26.7 percent of the population was recorded as
foreign-born in the last census, is not hostile territory for immigrants. A
day-laborer center has operated smoothly in Silver Spring for a decade. Another,
in Wheaton, opened recently without great ado. The opposition in Gaithersburg
might easily have been avoided, as city leaders acknowledge now. They erred on
two counts: by failing to provide an adequate opportunity for public comment and
by locating the proposed shelter too close to a residential area.

Officials rightly say they will try to find a new site for a day-laborer center
somewhere else in or near Gaithersburg. Let's hope they proceed more carefully
this time. The critics will still cry foul, arguing that taxpayers should not be
forced to subsidize lawbreakers  --  that is, immigrants who have entered the
country illegally. But they provide no practical alternative to addressing what
should be a federal law enforcement matter. The real choice is between the
status quo  --  day workers loitering around convenience stores, churches and
street corners  --  and modest shelters. The latter choice is more sensible.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              51 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Temporary Worker Program Is Explained;
As Administration Presents Plan, Bush Vows Tough Action Against Illegal
Immigration

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 804 words


President Bush, seeking to deal with what critics inside and outside of
Washington say is out-of-control illegal immigration,  yesterday promised tough
action to secure the country's borders as administration officials outlined a
plan to allow illegal immigrants living here and foreign workers to work in the
United States for as long as six years before returning home permanently.

At the White House, where he signed a bill financing the Department of Homeland
Security, Bush sought to strike a tough but compassionate tone in addressing an
issue that is causing havoc in the Southwest, tensions with Mexico and deep
rifts within the Republican Party.

"You see, we got people sneaking into our country to work. They want to provide
for their families. Family values do not stop at the Rio Grande River," Bush
said. "People are coming to put food on the table. But because there is no legal
way for them to do so, through a temporary worker program, they're putting
pressure on our border."

The measure signed by Bush deals with the issue, in part, by adding Border
Patrol agents and new technology along the border. It will also create more beds
at detention facilities and expedite the removal of illegal immigrants caught in
the country.

Earlier in the day, Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao and Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff provided the Senate Judiciary Committee with the most
detailed explanation to date of the administration's plan to create a temporary
worker program.

Under the plan, foreign workers  --  including the estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants already in the United States  --  could apply to work for three
years. Each would be matched with an employer, provided with a biometric
identification card to help track his or her whereabouts, and released in the
country.

But immigrants who are already living in the United States illegally would have
to pay an unspecified fine before they  could enter the program. They would also
be dispatched to the back of the employment line, behind foreign nationals who
followed the rules.

Officials said the fine would preclude any amnesty for illegal immigrants, an
anathema to conservative groups and politicians. "To the people of Oklahoma,
amnesty is a horrible word," Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) said.

The workers could travel freely between the United States and their places of
origin, as long as they remained employed and broke no laws. But neither they
nor the foreign workers who come to the United States under the program would be
eligible to apply for permanent legal status when their time in the program
expires, Chao said.

The administration's proposal is an attempt to bridge the yawning divide over
the issue within Bush's own party. Business executives  --  especially those in
construction, hospitality, agriculture and health care  --  are concerned that
tough anti-immigration measures would exacerbate the shortage of workers in
their fields. But many conservatives view giving amnesty to illegal immigrants
as rewarding law-breaking.

Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and John Cornyn (R-Tex.) have proposed a guest worker
program that would force 10 million illegal immigrants to go home before they
could apply to work. Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.)
have proposed a program that would allow law-abiding foreign workers to apply
for permanent residency after working for several years.

With his proposal yesterday, Bush tried to bridge the two camps. "It makes sense
to have a rational plan that says, you can come and work on a temporary basis if
an employer can't find an American to do the job," he said. "It makes sense for
the employer, it makes sense for the worker, and it makes sense for those good
people trying to enforce our border."

But on Capitol Hill, senators wasted no time in grilling administration
officials. How can the government hope to track workers when the southern border
is porous? And how can senators be assured that workers would be forced home
after six years when the government has failed to enforce the current
immigration laws on millions of workers?

Chao said the identification cards would help. Chertoff said his agency would
put more effort into border patrol and interior enforcement, along with the
temporary worker program, as part of a "three-legged" approach to reform.

Without a guest worker program, Chertoff said, illegal immigration would become
a worse problem.  In 2005 alone, Border Patrol agents apprehended have more than
a million people, mostly in Texas and California, as well as in New Mexico and
Arizona, whose governors recently declared a state of emergency in counties
along the Mexican border.

"This is a system in desperate need," Chertoff said of current immigration
rules, "and people are rightly upset and distressed."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              52 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 29, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Ad Attacks Kaine on Immigrant Issues;
Kilgore Commercial Misrepresents Lt. Governor's Views, His Campaign Says

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 544 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Oct. 28


Republican gubernatorial candidate Jerry W. Kilgore unveiled a television ad
Friday evening that focuses on immigration and blasts Democrat Timothy M. Kaine
for supporting taxpayer-financed day-laborer centers and in-state tuition
discounts for undocumented immigrants.

Kaine's campaign responded immediately, saying that the commercial misrepresents
the lieutenant governor's views.

"Illegal immigration: a growing crisis," the ad's narrator says. "Kaine favors
taxpayer-funded job centers and supports in-state tuition discounts for
illegals. Taxpayer benefits for illegal immigrants? What part of 'illegal' does
Tim Kaine not understand?"

With 10 days left until the Nov. 8 election, Kilgore's ads inject a volatile
issue back into the statewide campaign. Polls have shown that the race is a
virtual tie, with Kilgore and Kaine both showing leads within the statistical
margin of error in several recent surveys.

Aides to Kilgore have said they believe that the day-laborer issue  --  and
Kilgore's tough stand against illegal immigration generally  --  will help them
counter Kaine's strength in the inner suburbs of Northern Virginia, which tend
to support Democrats.

But Kaine's campaign aides said the ad distorts the facts. The Democrat has said
local governments  --  not the state  --  should decide whether to use public
funding for day-laborer sites, such as the one that was approved in Herndon in
August, the aides said.

And they said that Kaine opposes in-state tuition for immigrants in the country
illegally. He would make an exception for tax-paying immigrants brought to the
country by their parents and educated in the state's public schools, provided
they were seeking to legalize their status. Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) vetoed a
bill that would have barred illegal immigrants from the tuition benefits in 2003
because it did not grant this exception.

The exchange between the two candidates was the second intense flap over a
Kilgore ad this month. Two weeks ago, Kilgore released a pair of commercials
that attack Kaine's view of the death penalty. Kaine criticized the ads as
mean-spirited and false. Kilgore, the former state attorney general, has
emphasized his law-and-order credentials and conservative values during much of
the campaign.

"This is just the latest in a long string of distortion of the facts from the
Kilgore campaign," said Delacey Skinner, Kaine's press secretary. "In ad after
ad after ad, they have misrepresented the truth and lost credibility in doing
it."

Kilgore's campaign said Kaine is running from his own public statements.

"If he says it's [local governments'] call to make, that means he supports
whatever decision they make," said Tim Murtaugh, Kilgore's press secretary.
Herndon "made the decision to fund it. Therefore, he supports their decision to
fund it. Therefore, he supports the funding."

Reacting to Kaine's explanation that he opposes in-state tuition for illegal
immigrants except in certain circumstances, Murtaugh said: "If there was a world
championship for hair-splitting, Tim Kaine would win it. Jerry Kilgore believes
. . . if you are illegally in this country, you are not eligible for in-state
tuition. Tim Kaine does not believe in that position. Our ad is accurate."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              53 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 30, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Borders Issue Being Booked for 2008

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza

SECTION: A Section; A05 , SUNDAYPOLITICS Chris Cillizza

LENGTH: 746 words


Lost in last week's clamor surrounding the Valerie Plame leak investigation was
the fact that two Republican senators looking to the 2008 GOP nomination have
begun raising their voices about immigration, which promises to be one of the
most divisive issues on the campaign trail and Capitol Hill alike.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) sent an e-mail to supporters
pledging "to bring border security legislation to the Senate floor" by February.
Frist asked people to post messages on his Web site "showing support for a tough
border bill." By Friday night, the appeal had generated more than 1,000 messages
on Frist's Volunteer PAC site.

Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) introduced four bills aimed at addressing border
security and illegal immigration, calling them an "urgent national security
priority."

Over the past several years, restructuring of the country's immigration system
has become a flashpoint for the Republican Party's most conservative voters, an
influential bloc in any presidential primary process. At the same time, some
strategists urged a more welcoming approach on immigration, rhetorically and
substantively, to court votes among the growing Hispanic population.

Conservatives were mostly cool to the proposal put forward by the Bush
administration earlier this month that would allow the 8 million to 11 million
illegal immigrants living in the United States to stay and work for six years
before they would be sent home.

In his e-mail, Frist praised President Bush for signing a bill to increase the
number of border patrol agents, calling it a "good step forward." But Frist
added, "With an estimated 11 million people living here undocumented, it's going
to take more than just manpower."

Potential GOP presidential candidates are not the only people talking up
immigration overhaul. The National Republican Senatorial Committee, under Sen.
Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.), e-mailed more than 1 million supporters asking them to
answer a "National Survey on Immigration Policy."

"I want to know where loyal Republicans like you stand on this critical issue,"
Dole wrote. "We need to move towards decisive action to address this growing
challenge."

Attempting to literally dine out on their influence, some Washington-based
liberal activists are hosting informal meals with Democratic politicians thought
to be considering the 2008 presidential race.

The dinners are hosted by former America Coming Together executive director
Steven Rosenthal and America Votes president Cecile Richards. They generally
include eight to 10 guests. So far the group has dined with Virginia Gov. Mark
R. Warner and Sen. Evan Bayh (Ind.). Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack is next, slated to
break bread with the group early in November.

Attendees say there is no agenda at the sessions; the goal is for both sides to
become more familiar. "The dinners provide an opportunity for progressive
leaders and potential candidates to let their hair down and get to know each
other a little better," Rosenthal said.

This gathering and others like it are done largely out of the media glare but
represent a key element of the "primary within the primary" in which all
prospective 2008 candidates must compete. Wooing key players in the party
infrastructure can lead to increased visibility for a candidate among party
donors, who will provide the financial backbone of a national campaign, and the
ground troops who will be needed to win Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire
primary, which put a premium on "retail" campaigning.

While most voters won't pay attention to the next presidential race for years,
any candidate not playing this insider game is falling behind by the day.

Speaking of Rosenthal, he and longtime associate Tom Lindenfeld have opened a
consulting firm known as "the Organizing Group." Playing off the two men's
longtime involvement in the organized labor movement, the company "will
specialize in grass-roots voter mobilization for progressive organizations, (a
limited number of) candidates and ballot initiatives," according to a Rosenthal
e-mail.

A launch party scheduled for Nov. 14 boasts an impressive list of Democratic
luminaries as hosts, including former party chairman Terence R. McAuliffe,
Service Employees International Union President Andrew L. Stern and Emily's List
founder Ellen Malcolm.

Cillizza is a staff writer with washingtonpost.com. "The Fix," his online column
of political news, appears daily at www.washingtonpost.com/thefix.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              54 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

On Patrol in Vt., Minutemen Are the Outsiders;
Along the Border, Group Targets Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: David A. Fahrenthold, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: DERBY LINE, Vt.


Somewhere near this spot  --  where five men with lawn chairs and binoculars
were watching the woods  --  runs the long and mostly invisible border between
the United States and Canada.

The New England Minutemen were here to guard this border.

They just weren't precisely certain where it was.

"That's west, so I believe the border is that way," said Jeffrey Buck, the
group's leader, as he made an expansive gesture in the direction of a nearby
home on Saturday. "It's not really clear to me."

This weekend was the second that Buck's group, an offshoot of the Arizona-based
Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, tried to replicate their Mexican border patrols
here on the wooded Vermont-Quebec boundary.

Among their other problems, including bad cell phone reception and angry
protesters, perhaps the most vexing has been the difficulty of finding the
border itself.

At least in Arizona, Buck said, there are fences.

"You had some kind of demarcation" there, he said. Here, "You have really no
fences, nothing."

The Minutemen have now come north, bringing to  the woodsy, lightly populated
5,525-mile U.S.-Canada border the same kind of patrols that sprang up to curb
illegal immigration from Mexico. Besides the patrols in Vermont, other Minutemen
groups have set up watches this month in Washington state and Montana, Minutemen
co-founder Chris Simcox said Sunday.

The Minutemen say the patrols here are a natural extension of their movement,
which has  grown to include chapters in large cities. One of these chapters, in
Northern Virginia, has recently announced plans to patrol day-labor sites in
Herndon to look for workers who have entered the country illegally.

The  United States' northern border, according to the group, bears watching
because it also has problems with immigrants being smuggled across, and because
it could provide a way for terrorists to infiltrate the country.

"The Canadian border is the forgotten border," Buck said Saturday. "Nobody
thinks about it as a problem."

But, as the patrols began this month, many who know the Canadian border well
have said they are dubious that the Minutemen will have an impact.

For one thing, there is much less illegal traffic here. Border Patrol statistics
show the contrast well: The post covering Vermont has 295 miles of boundary and
made about 1,900 arrests last year.

By comparison, the McAllen, Tex., post  --  which has about 40 fewer miles of
border  --  made 134,000 arrests.

"The odds of them seeing anyone are pretty slim," said Deborah Meyers, a senior
policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute in Washington.

The terrain is another problem: Lt. Tom Hanlon of the Vermont State Police said
the routes the smugglers use in this area are often snowmobile trails hidden in
impenetrable backcountry.

"You get 10 feet off the road and you're in a dense forest. You can't see a
thing," Hanlon said. "It's not like Arizona, where you can plop down and see for
50 miles."

Nevertheless, the Minutemen have come to Vermont.

They began scouting out potential sites several weeks ago, poking around this
hamlet with a downtown almost directly on the border. It was in Derby Line that
they had their first problem with the elusive border. On one scouting
expedition, member Bob Casimiro said they became, for a moment, illegal visitors
in Canada.

Then came their first official patrol two weekends ago, which was dogged by
protesters who assembled downtown and shouted slogans such as "Take your hate
out of our state." The Minutemen had to patrol a bike path away from town, and
then  --  as the Boston Globe reported  --  got lost and had to ask a local for
directions.

Over the weekend, the Minutemen decided to find a spot and stay put. They set up
lawn chairs and looked out across a field at the trees. On Saturday afternoon,
after several hours of watching, they had seen nobody and nothing suspicious.

"I think I saw a squirrel coming in. That's it," said Craig Courounis, 40, of
Farmingdale, N.Y. He joked that the squirrel probably wouldn't be taking
anybody's job while in the States.

Soon afterward, Courounis stopped talking as a green car passed.

"I wonder what this car is stopping for?" he wondered aloud. But the car kept
going, and Courounis didn't report it.

Frank Shallis, 51, of Bound Brook, N.J., had a neighboring chair on the path. He
conceded that it was unlikely anyone suspicious would come down the bike path
that day.

"Our little group of three, four, five, 10, people here on this beautiful day
are not going to protect the Canadian border," he said.  In total, there were 13
patrolling the border. Instead, he said, the protest was about public relations,
drawing attention to the federal government's failure. "How come Washington
isn't handling this?"

Some locals haven't reacted well to their presence. In downtown Derby Line on
Saturday, James Griffin, 62, said he was worried by the idea of outsiders coming
to watch the area's borders.

"It's not like we have a bunch of illegal immigrants streaming across the border
here," Griffin said, standing within sight of the blue "Bonjour" sign welcoming
travelers to Quebec.

Even the Minutemen concede that their welcome hasn't been  particularly warm.
During their first patrol weekend, Buck said he found a note with a native
Vermonter's derogatory term for outsiders  --  indicating that someone thought
they were already on the wrong side of a border.

"Flatlander, go home," Buck said the note read.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              55 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 3, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Candidates Split on Taxes, Immigration, Transportation

BYLINE: Carol Morello, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Fairfax Extra; T27

LENGTH: 563 words


Issues of immigration, transportation and property taxes have taken center stage
in the campaign for Fairfax County's 39th District in the House of Delegates.

Incumbent Democrat Vivian E. Watts, seeking reelection to a job she has held
since 1996, is being challenged by Republican Michael J. Meunier, a businessman
who immigrated to the United States from Egypt and who is making his first run
for public office. Richard Lee Herron is also running as an Independent Green
candidate.

In a year in which officials have weighed using Fairfax County tax dollars to
partially fund a site for day laborers to gather in Herndon, Meunier has called
for a crackdown on illegal immigrants. He said that undocumented workers should
be offered five-year work visas and that  those who do not register under such a
program should be arrested and deported. Police who arrest undocumented
immigrants on suspicion of crimes should report them to federal immigration
authorities, he said.

"Many of us who came here have worked very hard," said Meunier, who left Egypt
for the United States in 1990. "It's a privilege to be able to have the
opportunity to be a citizen. We don't like illegal immigration."

Watts said that she supports more work visas for immigrants, but that the
problems associated with day laborer sites are the result of failed federal
policies. Local police do not have authority to arrest people for breaking
federal immigration laws, she said.

"I am at least equally concerned," she said. "But I am addressing the issue
within the legal framework of what we can actually do and not promising to do
something that cannot be delivered."

Meunier supports a 5 percent cap on property tax increases and a freeze on the
taxes for senior citizens. Watts said caps create inequities because they treat
all properties alike. She prefers focusing tax relief on the homestead exemption
for owner-occupied dwellings.

Meunier proposes addressing traffic congestion with relatively low-cost
programs. He suggests that rapid-response teams of police officers, tow trucks
and ambulances be positioned along highways during rush hours to reduce
bottlenecks after accidents.  He also favors turning Route 50 into a rush-hour
"green route" in which traffic lights are kept green.

"They're not huge ideas that will cost a huge amount of money and would take 10
or 15 years to get done," he said. "They can be done quickly.

Watts said she has been involved in numerous transportation initiatives, both as
a delegate and as Virginia's secretary of transportation from 1986 to 1990. She
has called for increased state and federal funding for Northern Virginia as well
as inflation-adjusted user fees and "partnerships" in which taxes on business
properties partially fund the cost of widening roads.

"I know and initiated many of the things that now are looked on as new ideas,"
she said.

Herron, the Independent Green, calls for more rail transportation instead of
widening roads.

The campaign became most contentious in September when Meunier accused Watts of
putting out a "racist" flier with the message "One of Our Own." Meunier said the
flier implicitly portrayed Watts as a native of America to draw a contrast with
Meunier, who has lived in the district for 10 years. Watts said that she was
"dumbfounded" by the allegation and that  the phrase referred to her community
roots.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              56 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Citizens, All

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 294 words


REP. TOM TANCREDO (R-Colo.) has a bold idea to stop illegal immigration: Deny
automatic citizenship to the children of undocumented immigrants. "There is
general agreement about the fact that citizenship in this country should not be
bestowed on people who are children of folks who come into this country
illegally," he told the Washington Times. General agreement? Perhaps among Mr.
Tancredo's friends in the House but not among the framers of the 14th Amendment.
Indeed, any such modern consensus would have a small problem in the text of the
Constitution, which is, inconveniently for anti-immigrant demagogues, not subtle
on the point. The 14th Amendment begins: "All persons born or naturalized in the
United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and of the State wherein they reside." Not "all persons except
children of illegal immigrants," not "all persons except those Congress exempts
in moments of nativism." All persons.

How does Mr. Tancredo propose to get around this language? Like diplomats,
illegal immigrants are not truly subject to American jurisdiction, he contends,
and their children therefore don't satisfy the constitutional test for
birthright citizenship.

The Supreme Court rejected this thesis more than a century ago.  "Every citizen
or subject of another country, while domiciled here, is within the allegiance
and the protection, and consequently subject to the jurisdiction, of the United
States," the court wrote. Diplomats, as a consequence of the lack of
jurisdiction Mr. Tancredo would extend to aliens, cannot be arrested or charged
with crimes. Is that what Mr. Tancredo has in mind for illegal immigrants?
Members of Congress ought not follow him on this ugly and fruitless path.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              57 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Minutemen, Go Home

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 420 words


UNWITTINGLY, THE leader of a local group whose self-appointed mission is to
photograph, spy on and bother undocumented day laborers in the town of Herndon,
put his finger on the dilemma of illegal immigration the other day. "What we
want, bottom line in Herndon, is for the illegal aliens to leave," said George
Taplin, leader of the town chapter of the Minuteman Project, a national
organization bitterly opposed to illegal immigrants. "And if there is no work,
they will."

Ah, but there you have the problem: There is work  --  enormous amounts of work,
particularly in the Northern Virginia suburbs. In fact, in an area with
virtually no unemployment, the market is desperate for immigrant labor,
documented, undocumented or falsely documented. It helps keep the economy
growing, and immigrants come here because they know they are needed and there
will be plenty of work. Anti-immigrant crusaders such as Mr. Taplin may not like
it, but unless they have discovered a magic formula for shrinking the regional
economy in boom-'burbs such as Fairfax County, no amount of spying on,
photographing or hassling undocumented day laborers and their employers will
eliminate this irrepressible demand for labor.

Of course, anti-immigration cranks such as the Minutemen know that, so what they
are really up to is simple harassment. They train their still and video cameras
on day laborers with families to feed and rents to pay and on the employers that
pick them up for work. They jot down license-plate numbers and talk to each
other with walkie-talkies. They convey the information they collect to the
Internal Revenue Service, which, to put it mildly, has bigger fish to fry.

Reveling in self-importance, the Minutemen and their ilk say they are plugging
enforcement gaps that the federal government has left open. In fact they are
underemployed amateurs more interested in posturing than problem-solving. In
Vermont one such group got lost in the woods while hunting for undocumented
infiltrators and had to ask for directions, the Boston Globe reported. Some
spent their Saturday "patrol" sitting in lawn chairs in a field, staring at a
tree line. People like these would dearly love to deport all 11 million
undocumented immigrants. But that's not going to happen.

Rather than harassing undocumented workers and staring at trees, the Minutemen
should heed Dean Boyd, spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
He told The Post's Karin Brulliard: "Law enforcement is best left up to
professionals."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              58 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Citizens, All

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 294 words


REP. TOM TANCREDO (R-Colo.) has a bold idea to stop illegal immigration: Deny
automatic citizenship to the children of undocumented immigrants. "There is
general agreement about the fact that citizenship in this country should not be
bestowed on people who are children of folks who come into this country
illegally," he told the Washington Times. General agreement? Perhaps among Mr.
Tancredo's friends in the House but not among the framers of the 14th Amendment.
Indeed, any such modern consensus would have a small problem in the text of the
Constitution, which is, inconveniently for anti-immigrant demagogues, not subtle
on the point. The 14th Amendment begins: "All persons born or naturalized in the
United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and of the State wherein they reside." Not "all persons except
children of illegal immigrants," not "all persons except those Congress exempts
in moments of nativism." All persons.

How does Mr. Tancredo propose to get around this language? Like diplomats,
illegal immigrants are not truly subject to American jurisdiction, he contends,
and their children therefore don't satisfy the constitutional test for
birthright citizenship.

The Supreme Court rejected this thesis more than a century ago.  "Every citizen
or subject of another country, while domiciled here, is within the allegiance
and the protection, and consequently subject to the jurisdiction, of the United
States," the court wrote. Diplomats, as a consequence of the lack of
jurisdiction Mr. Tancredo would extend to aliens, cannot be arrested or charged
with crimes. Is that what Mr. Tancredo has in mind for illegal immigrants?
Members of Congress ought not follow him on this ugly and fruitless path.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              59 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Rethinking the 14th Amendment

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 321 words


A Nov. 12 editorial,  condemning Rep. Tom Tancredo's proposal to deny automatic
citizenship to children born in the United States to illegal immigrant parents,
glosses over an important issue and ignores the history of the 14th Amendment.

In 1866, after the Civil War, Republicans were concerned that if only whites
could vote in the South, only Democrats would be elected. But giving blacks the
vote required that the Dred Scott decision, which held that blacks could not be
citizens, be overturned. Section One of the 14th Amendment was designed to
achieve that end. There is no evidence from the Senate debate at the time, or
from subsequent Supreme Court decisions, that the intention was to bestow
automatic citizenship on any person (diplomats excepted) born on U.S. soil.

Between 200,000 and 300,000 children are born in the United States every year to
illegal immigrants, with all the benefits that citizenship entails. The illegal
immigrant parents then use their U.S. citizen children as leverage to remain in
the United States. And this figure may vastly underestimate the reality of such
births, given the millions of illegal immigrants who enter the country each year
as bona fide visitors.

Citizenship is a privilege that should not be granted lightly. Immigrants who
enter the country legally work hard and wait a long time to become citizens.
Even pro-immigration groups admit that our porous borders are out of control.
Perhaps it is time to adapt our interpretation of the citizenship clause of the
14th Amendment to current realities.

One way to do this would be for Congress to pass legislation requiring that to
acquire citizenship at birth based on the 14th Amendment, one parent must be a
U.S. citizen or permanent resident alien. Such a provision would be consistent
with the history of the amendment and would end an anachronism that America can
no longer afford.

--  Allan Wendt

Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              60 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Foolish Fences

BYLINE: Douglas S. Massey

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 900 words


It's no secret that the U.S. immigration system is badly broken. Indeed, it has
been broken since 1986 and is getting worse. Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) has
proposed building a fence along the entire border with Mexico. President Bush,
speaking this week in Arizona, emphasized the need to choke off the flow of
illegal immigrants, stating that "illegal immigration's a serious challenge, and
our responsibility is clear. We are going to protect the border."

Unfortunately, unilateral attempts to close the border won't solve the problem
of undocumented immigrants. They will only make it worse. The central problem
concerns the relationship between Mexico and the United States.

After  Canada, Mexico  is our largest trading partner. We share a border of
almost 2,000 miles with Mexico, and trade that totals  $286 billion a year. The
movement of goods and services is accompanied by the movement of people. In 2004
some 175,000 legal immigrants arrived from Mexico, along with 3.8 million
visitors for pleasure, 433,000 business visitors, 118,000 temporary workers,
25,000 intra-company transferees, 29,000 students and exchange visitors, and
6,200 traders and investors. At the same time, 1  million Americans live in
Mexico and 19 million travel there each year as visitors. U.S. foreign direct
investment in Mexico totals $62 billion annually.

These massive cross-border flows occur by design, under the auspices of the
North American Free Trade Agreement. But at the heart of NAFTA lies a
contradiction: Even as the United States moves to promote free movement of
goods, services, capital and information, we as a nation somehow seek to prevent
the movement of labor. We wish to create a North American economy that
integrates all markets except one: that for labor.

To maintain the illusion that we can somehow integrate and still remain
separate, the United States has militarized its border with a friendly country
that poses no conceivable threat to U.S. national security. Even as binational
trade with Mexico grew eightfold from 1986 to the present, the  Border Patrol's
enforcement budget increased tenfold. The  Border Patrol is now the largest
arms-bearing branch of the federal government save the military itself, with an
annual budget exceeding $1.4 billion.

But our attempts to stop the flow of Mexican workers into the United States
through unilateral enforcement have not only failed miserably, they have
backfired. Heightened border enforcement has not deterred would-be immigrants
from entering the United States, nor has it reduced the size of the annual
inflow. What it has done is channel migrants away from traditional crossing
points to remote areas where the physical risks are great but the likelihood of
getting caught is small. As a result, the number of deaths has risen to around
460 people  a  year while the probability of apprehension has fallen from a
historical average of around 33 percent to around 10 percent.

We are spending more tax dollars to catch fewer migrants and cause more deaths,
and once they are deflected  from traditional crossing points, Mexicans have
moved on to new destinations. Whereas two-thirds of Mexicans who came to the
United States during 1985-90 went to California, in the past five years only
one-third have done so. Our misplaced border policies have transformed what was
a limited regional movement affecting three states into a mass migration to 50
states.

U.S. policies have also pushed Mexican migrants away from seasonal movement
toward permanent settlement. Raising the costs and risks of undocumented entry
has not deterred would-be migrants from coming.

Paradoxically, it has discouraged them from going home once they are here.
Having faced the hazards of border crossing, undocumented migrants are loath to
do so again, and instead they  hunker down for the long term. As migrants stay
away from home longer, they increasingly send for spouses and children.

Rather than remaining a circular flow of temporary male workers, migration from
Mexico to the United States  has produced a settled population of permanent
residents and families, driving up immigration's social and economic costs  to
American taxpayers.

Instead of attempting to stop the cross-border movement of workers through
unilateral police actions, we should bring these flows of people above board,
legalize them and manage them in ways that minimize the costs and maximize the
benefits for all concerned.

Instead of viewing Mexican migration as a pathological product of rampant
poverty and rapid population growth, we should see it for what it is: a natural
byproduct of economic development in a relatively wealthy country undergoing a
rapid transition to low fertility in close association with the United States.
Mexico has a trillion-dollar economy, with  per capita income approaching
$10,000; a 92 percent literacy rate; a total fertility rate of 2.2 children per
woman; and population growth of just 1.2 percent per year.

Seeking to manage immigration rather than repress it would put policymakers in a
better position to protect U.S. workers, lower the costs of immigration to
taxpayers and enhance the security of American citizens.

The writer is a professor of sociology and public affairs at Princeton
University and co-author of the book "Beyond Smoke and Mirrors: Mexican
Immigration in an Age of Economic Integration."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              61 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

GOP Official Urges Caution on Immigrants

BYLINE: Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: CARLSBAD, Calif. Dec. 1


Republican National Committee Chairman Ken Mehlman urged his party Thursday to
oppose rising anti-immigrant sentiments in the debate over border security and
illegal immigration, suggesting that the GOP risks being on the wrong side of
history and electoral politics alike if it embraces an exclusionary message.

Appearing before the Republican Governors Association, Mehlman waded into an
issue that political analysts say threatens to rip apart the Republican
coalition and inflict long-term damage to the party's hopes of expanding its
appeal to Latinos and other minorities. A top political hand to President Bush,
Mehlman followed the White House lead in treading a middle path on the issue: He
issued a strong call for tougher enforcement of immigration laws but extolled
the contributions of immigrants and denounced those who have sought to close the
country to foreigners.

"Throughout our history, there have always been Americans who believed that
coming to these shores was a right reserved only for them and their ancestors,
but not for others," Mehlman said. Citing Republicans and Democrats from earlier
eras who had expressed anti-immigrant prejudice, he added: "Ladies and
gentlemen, that was wrong then and those who argue that now are wrong today."

Mehlman said after the speech that he was not aiming his remarks at any
particular person or politician. But his message offered a counterweight to the
views of many conservatives, led by Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who have warned
that illegal immigration is damaging to the nation.

The party chairman spoke three days after   Bush  traveled to the Mexican border
to highlight his determination to strengthen security along the country's
southern flank. But the president also emphasized his support for a guest-worker
program that would provide legal status to many temporary workers. Tancredo
called that tantamount to amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Few states illustrate more vividly than California the double-edged nature of
the problem that immigration presents to the Republican Party. In 1994,
then-Gov. Pete Wilson (R), responding to growing voter resentment over the tide
of illegal immigration at a time of economic recession, sought reelection on a
platform strongly opposing illegal immigration. Wilson helped engineer a ballot
initiative, Proposition 187, that sought to eliminate government assistance for
illegal and some legal immigrants.

The strategy helped Wilson survive for a second term, but proved disastrous for
the Republican Party in the state. The 1996 election produced a surge in
participation by Latinos, raising their share of those who turned out to vote by
roughly a third, with Democrats winning 70 percent of their votes.

With Latinos now the fastest-growing segment of the population, Republicans can
ill afford to offend them with immigration policies that are seen as punitive.
GOP strategist Mike Murphy, who participated in a panel discussion after
Mehlman's speech, noted that in California, a politician now can win 70 percent
of the white vote and still lose an election because of the state's growing
diversity.

Bush long has resisted the most vociferous anti-immigration rhetoric in his
party. His political team has focused relentlessly on reaching out to the
Hispanic community, and his share of the Latino vote grew measurably between
2000 and 2004.

In the face of growing resentment among citizens in border and neighboring
states that the federal government has lost control of border security, Bush and
other politicians now are under pressure to respond with tougher immigration
policies. But Republican pollster Bill McIntuff told the governors meeting that
the party must respond, but with language that does not sound exclusionary. "We
have to have the right policy and soft language," he said.

"America is a nation of immigrants and America is a nation of laws, and we must
remember the 'and' between the two," Mehlman told the governors. Portraying most
immigrants as hardworking and law-abiding, Mehlman said that Bush recognizes
that "family values don't stop at the Rio Grande."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              62 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Study: Illegal Immigrants Not Drawn by Jobs

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 559 words


A majority of Mexican nationals who crossed into the United States illegally in
the past two years left behind paying jobs that, in some cases, are similar to
the agriculture, construction and manufacturing work they find north of the
border, according to a study of Mexican immigrants released yesterday by the Pew
Hispanic Center.

The study seemed to explode widely held beliefs that Mexicans risk deadly trips
across the Rio Grande and through broiling Arizona and New Mexico deserts solely
to find work. But the Pew Center's director, Roberto Suro, said he could not say
that definitively.

"There's one very clear finding and that's that unemployment per se is not a
very large factor in determining whether people migrate or not," Suro said.
"This is not a flow of people without jobs. Unemployment is not pushing people
out. . . . "

More often, he said, the decision to migrate involve a variety of reasons, such
"improvement of earnings" in Mexico, even though immigrants earn very low wages
in the United States.

The study's author, Rakesh Kochhar, associate director of research for the
center, said that, based on estimates, undocumented Mexican immigrants earn
about twice as much in construction, manufacturing and hospitality jobs as they
did working  south of the border.

Other  factors that contributed to Mexican migration include rejoining families
and improved working conditions, Suro and Kochhar said.

The Pew Center study comes as Congress prepares to debate a number of
immigration bills meant to check what appears at times to be an unimpeded flow
of illegal border crossings. President Bush urged Congress to create a temporary
guest worker program for immigrants, but many lawmakers are reluctant to do so
without asking immigrants already in the country illegally to return home
immediately or slowly over time.

The study, "The Economic Transition to America," is part of a series of reports
culled from a  survey of more than 4,000 Mexican nationals at consulate offices
in Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Dallas and Fresno, Calif., between
July 2004  and January 2005.

Thirty-two percent of men questioned  said they  worked in agriculture  in
Mexico, followed by 15 percent who were employed by manufacturers and 13 percent
in commerce and sales. Women  --  19 percent  --  mostly worked in commerce and
sales, followed by manufacturing and domestic service.

After arriving in the United States, 82 percent of the illegal immigrants  lived
with relatives. "The strong family ties, and the social network they comprise,
are clearly important to the economic assimilation of respondents," the study
stated.

Unemployment is a fact of life in the transition from Mexico. A high percentage,
38, said they were unemployed for at least a month in the previous year. Women
in particular, 48 percent, had trouble finding work, and 40 percent of people
without a high-school education were jobless for a significant period.

Forty-five percent eventually found jobs by "talking with people" in the  United
States, the study said. Others visited job sites, talked to people in Mexico or
consulted want ads in U.S. newspapers.

About half of illegal immigrants entered the same industries that employ most
workers in Mexico. An additional 17 percent took jobs in the hospitality
industry, according to the study.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              63 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 11, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

House to Take Up Stricter Immigration Measure;
GOP, Administration Divided on Plan to Boost Border Security, Tighten Job Market

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 1141 words


Driven by the rising anger of their constituents, House Republicans are pushing
ahead with tough legislation to tighten control of the nation's borders and
clamp down on the hiring of illegal  immigrants  --  without offering new
avenues for such immigrants to find lawful employment.

The immigration issue has opened stark divisions in the Republican Party,
pitting House leaders against the White House, business groups against
congressional allies, even lawmaker against lawmaker in adjoining districts.

President Bush and his handpicked Republican Party chairman, Ken Mehlman, have
implored House leaders not to take  up what they call an "enforcement-only"
bill, arguing that such a punitive measure could jeopardize years of Republican
outreach to Latinos. New enforcement measures are bound to fail unless
immigrants drawn to the economic opportunities of the United States are given
some chance to work here legally, they argue.

But just such a bill is barreling toward a House vote this week, Republican
leaders have promised. Advocates, including the Republican leadership, say
action is needed immediately to stem the flow of illegal immigrants, and such
efforts should not be held up as lawmakers wrangle over the intricacies of the
president's  guest-worker  program.

"With all due respect, this is not a political problem to be managed," said Rep.
J.D. Hayworth (R-Ariz.). "This is an invasion to be stopped."

Rep. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), an ardent conservative who rarely disagrees with
Hayworth, all but charged the congressman from his neighboring district with
grandstanding, linking him to the House's anti-immigration firebrand Tom
Tancredo (R-Colo.).

"Hayworth has gone Tancredo on us," said Flake, who agrees with Bush that a
guest-worker program must be part of any immigration bill.

Hayworth maintained that his position  --  not Flake's  --  represents the views
of his border state. "I have not been Tancredoed," he said. "I've been
Arizonaed."

Mehlman, who has led the GOP's efforts to reach out to minority voters, tiptoed
through the altercation, trying not to confront House Republicans directly. But
he repeated his concern about any bill that clamped down on border security
without offering an outlet for legal employment.

"There's no question you have to start at the border [with enforcement
measures], but if the House bill stops at the border, you are not addressing the
nation's problem of illegal immigration and homeland security," Mehlman said.

At issue is a broad  bill, drafted by the House Judiciary and Homeland Security
committees, that would make some of the toughest changes to immigration law in
decades.

Even Latino organizations term the problem of illegal immigration a crisis.
About 11 million undocumented  immigrants live in the United States, often using
such public services  as education and health care while paying little or no
taxes on under-the-table paychecks. Hayworth said illegal  immigrants cost his
state alone $1.6 billion a year, or $700 per Arizonan, for law enforcement,
incarceration, health care, education and other public services.

And such  immigrants are growing increasingly sophisticated in gaming the U.S.
judicial system, overwhelming the courts, Republican aides say. The number of
petitions for judicial review of deportation orders jumped from 1,654 in 2001 to
10,681 in 2004, according to the House Judiciary Committee.

Under the bill, employers would be mandated to confirm the authenticity of
employees' Social Security numbers against a national database of legitimate
numbers. The measure would end the  "catch and release" policy for  immigrants
other than Mexicans who are caught entering the country illegally. All  illegal
immigrants apprehended at the border would have to be detained, and deportation
processes would be streamlined.

Criminal penalties for  smuggling immigrants would be stiffened, with new
mandatory minimum sentences.  Immigrant gang members would be rendered
inadmissible under any circumstance. Mandatory minimum sentences would be
established for immigrants who reenter illegally after deportation, and local
sheriffs in the 29 counties along the Mexican border would be reimbursed for
detaining illegal  immigrants and turning them over to federal custody.

Many Republicans hope to go still further when the bill reaches the floor,
probably Thursday. They are demanding a vote on an amendment that would end the
right to automatic citizenship for any baby born on U.S. soil, and some are
pushing for construction of a 2,000-mile fence on the southern border.

Latino political organizations are incensed by the bill. Cecilia Muñoz, the vice
president for policy at the National Council of La Raza says that the measure
will overwhelm the nation's jails and law enforcement agencies without
effectively stemming the flow of illegal immigrants. A parent transporting her
illegal nanny to the doctor or a church housing a needy but undocumented family
could be prosecuted as  an immigrant trafficker.

Access to immigration courts and judicial review would be severely curtailed,
and because illegal  immigrants would be declared felons, their chances at
naturalization would depend on never getting caught, Muñoz said.

"In the spirit of trying to be tough on national security and border security,
they are also conveying a real anti-immigrant sentiment,"  said Janet Murguia,
president of La Raza.

The business lobby is not happy, either. In a letter to House Judiciary
Committee Chairman  F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) last week, R. Bruce
Josten, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, expressed
disappointment that there is no temporary worker program and called the bill's
mandate on employer verification impractical and unrealistic.

Business lobbyists have been able to thwart such measures before, but Republican
lawmakers say the political atmosphere has changed. "When you're a majority
party, you've got very differing and different constituencies," said Rep.
Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), who expressed strong misgivings about the bill.
"There is strong pressure coming from the borders on this one."

Tancredo said the pressure extends far beyond the frontier.

"If you go into a hospital in any city in America, you can't get served. Your
kids are going to school, and their classes are overwhelmed. It goes on and on,"
he said.

The bill is moving so fast that business lobbyists have decided to let it pass
and take a stand next year in the Senate. The tactic may ultimately work, but
the political damage may have already been done, La Raza's Muñoz said.

"For all the progress President Bush has made to reframe his party for my
community, this is undermining all of that," she said. "We're not stupid."

Staff writer Jeffrey H. Birnbaum contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              64 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Cost of Virginia's Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; A28

LENGTH: 365 words


The Nov. 13 editorial "Minutemen, Go Home" said about Northern Virginia: "[I]n
an area with virtually no unemployment, the market is desperate for immigrant
labor, documented, undocumented or falsely documented. It helps keep the economy
growing, and immigrants come here because they know they are needed and there
will be plenty of work."

Street-level observations by the Minutemen have shown this to be a myth. At the
informal day-labor site in Herndon as well as at sites on adjacent streets and
parking lots, for every 20 laborers picked up for a day's work, about 70 remain
behind, idle for the day.

With an estimated 200,000 illegal immigrants in Virginia, according to the Pew
Hispanic Center, this could mean as many as 156,000 idle people, whose presence
adds to our already overburdened social welfare, education and health care
systems. As to the oft-repeated claim that even illegal immigrants and
undocumented immigrants contribute to the economy,  new  findings refute this
contention.

A study this year by the University of Florida found that immigrant families
cost that state a net $1,800 per household annually. Economist David Denslow, a
pro-immigration Democrat, found that legal and illegal immigrants  consume much
more in public services and pay far less in taxes than the average resident. The
government services most consumed were education and Medicaid.

A study by the Center for Immigration Studies found that the average welfare
payout to immigrant households, legal and illegal, is about $2,700 a year  --
more than 50 percent higher than the payout for citizens and legal immigrants.
Applying the more conservative University of Florida findings to Virginia  --
that immigrant families cost a net $1,800 per household per year  --  the cost
to taxpayers to support Virginia's 200,000 illegal or undocumented immigrants is
$360 million annually. Of that amount, $125 million is spent in Fairfax County,
according to Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax).

In its diatribe against the Minutemen, The Post did nothing to clarify these
issues.

NATHAN J. MULLER

Sterling

The writer is a co-founder of ForTheCause.us, a nonprofit that supports the
Minutemen.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              65 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 28, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bad Border Bill

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 408 words


BEFORE LEAVING town the House of Representatives  passed a terrible bill
designed to shore up American border security  --  or, at least, to appear to
do so. The bill, sponsored by Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), is dangerous because of what it does and what it
doesn't do. It contains any number of mindless criminal penalties for
immigration violations, and it would make both detention and deportation of
illegal immigrants easier. But it would do nothing to rationalize U.S.
immigration policy. The Bush administration, which has rightly argued for a more
sensible approach, disgracefully got behind the bill. And House members, many of
whom know better, passed it 239 to 182.

Border security is a real issue, but it is not the only  --  or even the
principal  --  issue confronting those who would tackle illegal immigration. Yet
the bill would create new criminal penalties  --  including some mandatory
minimum sentences  --  for people who encourage illegal immigration and for
immigrants who return to the United States after being deported. It would
broaden the range of deportable aliens so that, for example, repeat drunk
drivers can be kicked out of the country. It would authorize lots of new
spending on border control initiatives. It would force employers to verify
employees' Social Security numbers against a national database. It would
reimburse sheriffs in the counties that border Mexico for the costs of holding
illegal immigrants. Following amendments added on the House floor, it would also
create a giant fence along the Mexican border and require that border patrol
uniforms be made in the good ol' USA.

Some of these provisions, as part of a larger reform, might make sense. But none
will do much to change the fact that 11 million people live illegally in this
country, in an economy that cannot function without them. No immigration bill
that fails to realistically approach the country's dependence on immigrant labor
will fix anything. A serious bill would have to spell out how people looking for
work can come here and, in the light of day, find businesses that wish to employ
them. It must illuminate some road to legality for those already here. Talking
only about enforcement may play to anti-immigration sentiment in the short term.
But unless border security measures are a part of comprehensive immigration
reform, the goal of secure borders will always remain elusive.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              66 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 3, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Political Splits on Immigration Reflect Voters' Ambivalence;
Americans Favor Tighter Borders but Divide on Entrants' Fate

BYLINE: Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 1185 words


When Congress returns to the unfinished business of immigration early in the new
year, lawmakers will be trying to reconcile sometimes conflicting public
attitudes on an issue that has become a crusade to some conservative Republicans
but has defied effective solutions over the past three decades.

A Washington Post-ABC News poll taken in mid-December found Americans alarmed by
the federal government's failure to do more to block the flow of illegal
immigration and critical of the impact of illegal immigration on the country but
receptive to the aspirations of undocumented immigrants living and working in
the United States.

"You wonder why politicians are not always consistent," said Republican pollster
Glen Bolger. "It's because public opinion's not always consistent."

Immigration still ranks below the war in Iraq, terrorism, health care and the
economy on the public's list of priorities, but in many parts of the country  --
not just those areas near the Mexican border  --  it has become an issue of
pressing significance because of its economic, racial and, more recently,
national security implications.

If there is any consensus today, it is on the need for enhanced border security,
driven not only by traditional concerns about jobs and the strains illegal
immigrants put on state and local resources  but also by newer worries that the
porous border makes America more vulnerable to terrorists. The public and
politicians are far more divided on the difficult question of how to treat the
roughly 11 million illegal migrants already in the country.

Conservative anti-immigration advocates controlled the debate last month in the
House, which passed stringent legislation calling for the construction of nearly
700 miles of fence along the Mexican border and including  strict measures to
police employers to prevent them from hiring undocumented workers. Critics call
it the harshest immigration bill in memory.

That bill responds directly to public anger over illegal immigration. The
Post-ABC News poll found that four in five Americans think the government is not
doing enough to prevent illegal immigration, with three in five saying they
strongly hold that view.

The same poll found that 56 percent of Americans believe that illegal immigrants
have done more to hurt the country than to help it, with 37 percent saying they
help the country. About three in five Republicans and a bare majority of
Democrats agreed that illegal immigrants are detrimental to the country.

The only groups in the poll who disagreed were people with postgraduate degrees,
those with incomes  exceeding $100,000 and nonwhite respondents. The Post-ABC
poll did not include enough Hispanics to provide an accurate reading of their
sentiment, but a Pew Hispanic Center survey last summer found that two in three
Latinos said that undocumented migrants help the economy.

Still, many Americans expressed support for trying to help those already here to
stay and achieve legal status. The Post-ABC poll asked whether illegal
immigrants who are working here should be given the opportunity to keep their
jobs and eventually apply for legal status, or be rounded up and deported to
their native countries. Three in five Americans said undocumented workers should
be given the opportunity to stay and become citizens.

Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster, said Americans are ambivalent on this
issue. "There is a clear view that families that are here, that are working,
paying taxes and contributing to society, ought to be able to get regularized
status," he said. "On the other hand, there is a view about not rewarding
illegal behavior."

Public frustration is clear, and politicians have responded. In Arizona,
irritation over illegal immigration spawned the controversial Minutemen
movement, with citizens organizing to police the borders on their own. Democrats
as well as Republicans have felt the heat. Two Democratic governors, Arizona's
Janet Napolitano and New Mexico's Bill Richardson, declared emergencies along
their borders and shifted state resources to local governments to help pay the
costs of dealing with the phenomenon.

In the recent Post-ABC News poll,  President Bush got his lowest marks on
immigration, with 33 percent saying they approved of how he was handling the
issue. That may largely reflect irritation over the government's failure to
control the borders.

Border security has become the point of consensus in the debate. A Gallup poll
in early December found that 56 percent of Americans said the government's
principal focus should be on stopping the flow of illegal immigration, rather
than working on a plan that would allow those here to become legal residents.

Bush has proposed a guest-worker program as part of a comprehensive immigration
package, but Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), leader of anti-illegal-immigration
forces nationally, has denounced the plan as a thinly disguised amnesty for
undocumented immigrants. Tancredo's view prevailed in the House, which rebuffed
the president by failing to include a guest-worker plan  in its legislation.

Bush has tried to satisfy those who want to tighten the borders without
alienating  Hispanic voters, the nation's fastest-growing voting bloc. But when
the White House praised the House for acting on immigration, the Wall Street
Journal's conservative editorial page denounced the president. "By voicing no
disapproval of these over-the-top provisions, Mr. Bush legitimizes the forces
that will make it hard to pass useful reform," the editorial said.

Bush may find more receptivity to his guest-worker plan in the Senate, where
Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) have sponsored
legislation that calls for creating such a program and the possibility for
illegal immigrants eventually to regularize their status in the United States.
But finding a Senate majority for any comprehensive proposal will be difficult
--  and even if approved there, such a measure would face stiff opposition back
in the House.

As they move to the next stage of the legislative process, lawmakers will have
to sort through conflicting findings on the question of creating a guest-worker
program. Time magazine found strong support for such a program in its poll at
the beginning of December, but earlier NBC News-Wall Street Journal and CBS
News-New York Times polls found opposition to the idea.

Immigration cuts across party lines and has split both parties' coalitions. That
suggests the possibility for a bipartisan solution, but in reality  it might
make compromise even more remote.

"You've got business groups and unions very often joined together on one side on
this and movement conservatives and rank-and-file working class voters on the
other side, with all of this playing out against the backdrop of the ongoing
political battle for the Hispanic vote between Democrats and Republicans," said
Democratic pollster Geoffrey Garin. "The politics and the unusual coalitions
make all the political choices much more difficult."

Assistant polling director Claudia Deane contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              67 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 14, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Says Jail Program Slows Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Tim Gaynor, Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: EAGLE PASS, Tex. Jan. 13


A pilot program that jails all illegal immigrants crossing into this Texas
border town from Mexico has led to a dramatic fall in numbers attempting the
journey, the U.S. Office of Border Patrol said Friday.

A program known as Operation Streamline II, instituted  Dec. 12, is aimed mostly
at non-Mexican illegal immigrants who were arrested and released because Border
Patrol agents did not have sufficient space to jail them.

The blanket crackdown is also being applied to undocumented Mexicans who were
previously subject to criminal background checks and released back over the Rio
Grande without charges.

The U.S. Marshals Service has freed up 1,000 beds in several county jails
abutting the Border Patrol region that includes Eagle Pass to accommodate the
growing number of immigrants.

"The message is one of zero tolerance to all illegal immigrants, whether they
are Mexican or [non-Mexican] nationals," said Hilario Leal, the U.S. Border
Patrol's spokesman for the sector that includes Eagle Pass.

"It appears to be getting out by word of mouth and through the media south of
the border, as the numbers attempting to cross has fallen dramatically."

Since the pilot program began around Eagle Pass, 140 miles west of San Antonio,
the number of undocumented immigrants picked up by Border Patrol agents has
dwindled to 10 a day, from highs of around 150 a day in mid-2005, officials
said.

The Border Patrol said 740 illegal immigrants have been arrested and charged
with misdemeanor illegal entry under the program. They are tried in federal
court and jailed for up to 180 days pending deportation to their country of
origin.

"We have lots of space, and we can handle all the prisoners the court sends us,"
said Deputy U.S. Marshal Tim Hughes. "If it grew to an incredible number, we
could send them out of state."

Each year, an unknown number of illegal immigrants, most from Mexico and
elsewhere in Latin America, cross the 2,000-mile border from Mexico, seeking a
better life in the United States. Last year, almost 1.2 million were nabbed
making the journey.

A proposal in the Congress to build a steel fence equipped with lights and
security cameras has angered Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              68 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 18, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Mexico Wants U.S. To Investigate Slaying;
Migrant Was 2nd Killed Within a Month

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Jan. 17


Mexico demanded Tuesday that U.S. authorities investigate the fatal shooting of
another undocumented migrant by U.S. security agents, fueling a bilateral
dispute over illegal immigration.

Ismael Segura, 23, was shot in the chest by security agents in Texas over the
weekend after he resisted arrest and tried to flee in a car. He was taken to a
hospital, where he died, Mexican authorities said.

It was the second killing of a Mexican migrant by U.S. security forces in less
than a month.

Guillermo Martinez, 18, was shot by U.S. border guards on Dec. 31 as he sneaked
across the border near San Diego, prompting a complaint by Mexican President
Vicente Fox.

"It hurts us, it angers us and we reject any measure that threatens people's
human rights," said Carlos Abascal, the interior minister.

U.S. and Mexican officials have been exchanging barbs since the U.S. House of
Representatives approved a bill last month to put up additional barriers along
the border and to make illegal migration a felony.

Fox has compared the planned border fence to the Berlin Wall, a comparison U.S.
Ambassador Tony Garza said last week was disingenuous, intellectually dishonest
and offensive.

Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez responded Monday by saying that Garza's
comments showed that U.S. officials were embarrassed by the criticism.

Mexico has accused the Bush administration of foot-dragging on a comprehensive
immigration accord, which has soured relations in recent months.

Thousands of Mexicans and other Latin Americans cross the 2,000-mile border
illegally every day in search of work in the United States.

Each year hundreds die of thirst or exhaustion attempting to cross rugged
terrain.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              69 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bills on Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 210 words


The Virginia General Assembly is considering a cluster of bills targeting
illegal immigrants. These are some of the proposals:

House

HB 892 Would prohibit admission of illegal immigrants to public colleges and
universities.

HB 1046 Law enforcement would be required to report juveniles to Immigration and
Customs Enforcement if the juveniles are illegal immigrants accused of what
would be crimes if they were adults.

HB 1048  Employers would be required to obtain proof that a prospective employee
is legally eligible for employment in the United States.

HB 1050 Illegal immigrants would be ineligible for any post-secondary
educational benefit, including in-state tuition.

HB 1570 Businesses filing legal documents with the state would be required to
certify that their directors, managers, other officials and employees are U.S.
citizens or legal residents.

Senate

SB 444 Couples would be required to prove citizenship or legal residency to get
a marriage license.

SB 629 A business could sue another business in the same field for economic
damages if the second business employed people it knew or should have known were
illegal immigrants.

SB 677 Illegal immigrants would be barred from receiving in-state tuition at
public institutions.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              70 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Bills Targeting Illegal Immigrants;
Series of Proposals Includes Restrictions on Employment and Education

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B08

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Jan. 24


Legislators in Virginia are intensifying their effort to crack down on illegal
immigrants.

They have introduced bills in the House and Senate that would, among other
things, prevent illegal immigrants from attending state colleges and
universities, punish businesses that employ them and require proof of
citizenship or legal residency to obtain a marriage license.

More than 40 bills and resolutions dealing with the immigration issue are likely
to be considered in the session that began Jan. 11. Many would restrict access
to public resources or grant broader powers to state officials. Some, such as a
bill to bar illegal immigrants from receiving in-state tuition rates, have been
introduced previously but failed to become law. Others, such as the marriage
license bill, are new.

"This is a complicated issue, but there are some simple answers to it," said
Del. John S. "Jack" Reid (R-Henrico), who led a morning news conference at the
state Capitol that was attended by dozens of activists on both sides of the
issue.

Attendees included members of the group Help Save Herndon, which has opposed
public funding for the town's controversial day laborer site on the grounds that
many such workers are in the country illegally. Members of other groups, who
were in Richmond to lobby lawmakers on the issue, held signs that read: "No
Backroom Deals on Amnesty for Illegals" and "Stop False Documents."

One lawmaker who opposes such proposals said the bills were merely attempts to
play to certain political constituents. "This is not about immigration," said
Del. Albert C. Eisenberg (D-Arlington). "It's all about making points with
narrow specific groups who respond to these kinds of appeals."

Other legislation would require that applicants for driver's licenses take their
tests in English and without an interpreter. Efforts to crack down on employers
include a measure that would prevent companies that hire illegal immigrants from
receiving state contracts.

Like efforts to tighten abortion laws, proposed restrictions on illegal
immigration now come before state politicians annually. During the 2005 session,
legislators passed measures that further limited illegal immigrants' access to
Medicaid and other benefits.

Often such legislation is passed in the more conservative House but is defeated
in the Senate. Any bills that pass both chambers would go to Gov. Timothy M.
Kaine (D) for signature or veto.

"We need to send a message," said Del. Thomas D. Gear (R-Hampton), who is
sponsoring the bill to deny illegal immigrants access to public colleges and
universities. "If they come in legally, glad to have you. If not, we don't need
them in the country. Go back."

During last year's gubernatorial campaign, Republican Jerry W. Kilgore called
attention to the issue when he announced his opposition to the Herndon day
laborer site, which is financed in part with public money. Illegal immigration
was also a prominent topic in several House races.

Advocates for immigrants said after Tuesday's news conference that several of
the bills would violate federal equal protection laws. They said sponsors, who
include some Democrats as well as many Republicans, are ignoring the need for
national reforms on immigration policy.

"Current federal laws do not reflect the economic reality . . . and our
dependency on a large labor force of both documented and undocumented
immigrants," said Tim Freilich, managing attorney for the Virginia Justice
Center for Farm and Immigrant Workers in Falls Church. "If you hurt Virginia
immigrants, you hurt Virginia."

Studies estimate that Virginia's illegal immigrant population has tripled since
1996, to about 180,000.

"Change creates some fear," said Claire Guthrie Gastañaga, a lobbyist who
represents immigrant groups.

Passage of some of the bills would put Virginia in the forefront of states'
efforts to combat illegal immigration, supporters and opponents agreed. A bill
sponsored by Del. Jeffrey M. Frederick (R-Prince William) would allow state
police to enforce federal immigration law, something that only Florida and
Alabama allow at present. Virginia would be the only state to prevent illegal
immigrants from attending public colleges and universities if that measure
became law.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              71 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Bills Targeting Illegal Residents;
Restrictions Sought On Work, Schooling For Immigrants

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Jan. 24


Legislators in Virginia are intensifying their effort to crack down on illegal
immigrants.

They have introduced bills in the House and Senate that would, among other
things, prevent illegal immigrants from attending state colleges and
universities, punish businesses that employ them and require proof of
citizenship or legal residency to obtain a marriage license.

More than 40 bills and resolutions dealing with the immigration issue are likely
to be considered in the session that began Jan. 11. Many would restrict access
to public resources or grant broader powers to state officials. Some, such as a
bill to bar illegal immigrants from receiving in-state tuition rates, have been
introduced previously but failed to become law. Others, such as the marriage
license bill, are new.

"This is a complicated issue, but there are some simple answers to it," said
Del. John S. "Jack" Reid (R-Henrico), who led a morning news conference at the
state Capitol that was attended by dozens of activists on both sides of the
issue.

Attendees included members of the group Help Save Herndon, which has opposed
public funding for the town's controversial day laborer site on the grounds that
many such workers are in the country illegally. Members of other groups, who
were in Richmond to lobby lawmakers on the issue, held signs that read: "No
Backroom Deals on Amnesty for Illegals" and "Stop False Documents."

One lawmaker who opposes such proposals said the bills were merely attempts to
play to certain political constituents. "This is not about immigration," said
Del. Albert C. Eisenberg (D-Arlington). "It's all about making points with
narrow specific groups who respond to these kinds of appeals."

Other legislation would require that applicants for driver's licenses take their
tests in English and without an interpreter. Efforts to crack down on employers
include a measure that would prevent companies that hire illegal immigrants from
receiving state contracts.

Like efforts to tighten abortion laws, proposed restrictions on illegal
immigration now come before state politicians annually. During the 2005 session,
legislators passed measures that further limited illegal immigrants' access to
Medicaid and other benefits.

Often such legislation is passed in the more conservative House but is defeated
in the Senate. Any bills that pass both chambers would go to Gov. Timothy M.
Kaine (D) for signature or veto.

"We need to send a message," said Del. Thomas D. Gear (R-Hampton), who is
sponsoring the bill to deny illegal immigrants access to public colleges and
universities. "If they come in legally, glad to have you. If not, we don't need
them in the country. Go back."

During last year's gubernatorial campaign, Republican Jerry W. Kilgore called
attention to the issue when he announced his opposition to the Herndon day
laborer site, which is financed in part with public money. Illegal immigration
was also a prominent topic in several House races.

Advocates for immigrants said after Tuesday's news conference that several of
the bills would violate federal equal protection laws. They said sponsors, who
include some Democrats as well as many Republicans, are ignoring the need for
national reforms on immigration policy.

"Current federal laws do not reflect the economic reality . . . and our
dependency on a large labor force of both documented and undocumented
immigrants," said Tim Freilich, managing attorney for the Virginia Justice
Center for Farm and Immigrant Workers in Falls Church. "If you hurt Virginia
immigrants, you hurt Virginia."

Studies estimate that Virginia's illegal immigrant population has tripled since
1996, to about 180,000.

"Change creates some fear," said Claire Guthrie Gastañaga, a lobbyist who
represents immigrant groups.

Passage of some of the bills would put Virginia in the forefront of states'
efforts to combat illegal immigration, supporters and opponents agreed. A bill
sponsored by Del. Jeffrey M. Frederick (R-Prince William) would allow state
police to enforce federal immigration law, something that only Florida and
Alabama allow at present. Virginia would be the only state to prevent illegal
immigrants from attending public colleges and universities if that measure
became law.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              72 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

The Debate Doesn't Stop in Herndon

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 517 words


The writers of the Jan. 22 Close to Home piece "Compassion: A Community Value"
are distressed that anti-immigration protesters and a group called the Minutemen
have flocked to Herndon to oppose a  new day laborer center. They said that for
supporting a center where largely undocumented laborers can safely convene,
members of their organization, Herndon Embraces All with Respect and Tolerance
(HEART), should be "recognized as the beacons of what our community stands for
and what we want our children to learn about being citizens."

Certainly applause is in order for efforts to help poor and underserved
immigrants, many of whom  --  regardless of legal status  --  provide vital
services and labor in this area. But it is shortsighted and naive to insist that
Herndon's management of illegal immigrants can be left at the local level. In
supporting a free service to illegal immigrants, the members of HEART have
become part of a national debate on illegal immigration, and they should
anticipate involvement in this debate for a long time.

I am no stranger to immigration issues. As a Canadian married to an American, I
have lived and worked as an immigrant in four countries, including this one. I
have filled out many forms, sat through medical exams and criminal-record
checks, and endured the months of frustration that go with trying to immigrate
legally to a new country. I teach English as a second language, and my history
makes me empathetic to my students, but it also reaffirms my belief that anyone
hoping to begin a new life in a new country should first be able to prove  --
by oath or by act  --  that he or she can follow the letter of the law in that
country. While centers such as the one supported by HEART provide compassionate
service to the exploited, they also contribute to the growing numbers of illegal
workers in the United States.

I expect this opinion will lead some to label me intolerant and in favor of
"discriminatory acts," as the members of HEART termed them, such as police
"raiding homes to see how many people live in them and checking papers primarily
of Latinos."

But decrying such practices ignores the reality of immigration enforcement and
lack of enforcement in almost every industrialized country. Indeed, police might
discover nothing when they raid a house, or they might discover a brothel with
minors living in unspeakable conditions ["Police in Area Targeting Brothels; 2
Dozen Probed in Recent Years in Montgomery," Metro, Jan. 20]. Ironically,
exploitation in their native countries is what brought many undocumented workers
to the United States.

Groups such as HEART should not support centers for the undocumented while
disengaging themselves from the discussion of the larger and pervasive problems
that come with illegal immigration. I hope the day laborer center succeeds in
providing a safe place for the underserved in Herndon, but after those
responsible finish patting themselves on the shoulder, they should be prepared
to take part in the larger debate on illegal immigration.

--  Alexandra Chasse

achasse@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              73 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Higher-Ed Limits On Illegal Residents Advance in House

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 1


The House of Delegates gave preliminary approval Wednesday to legislation that
would restrict illegal immigrants' access to Virginia's public colleges and
universities, even as a coalition of Hispanic organizations told lawmakers that
such efforts are ineffective and mean-spirited.

House Bill 1050 would prevent illegal immigrants from receiving in-state tuition
rates. House Bill 262 would prohibit the enrollment of students in Virginia's
state colleges if they cannot prove that they are lawfully present in the United
States, even if they graduated from the state's public schools. Nearly identical
measures have passed the House in previous sessions but have been defeated in
the Senate.

Both House measures Wednesday were passed on a voice vote and are likely to
clear the chamber on a final vote Thursday.

As in previous years, supporters of the bills said the state's resources must be
reserved for students who are legally in the United States.

"We have thousands of illegal aliens in the commonwealth. There's no way of
accounting for them. But our public colleges are there for our citizens of the
commonwealth," said Del. Frank R. Hargrove Sr. (R-Hanover), chief sponsor of HB
262.

Opponents said the bill was drawn too broadly and could cause undue hardship to
well-meaning students who have gone through the proper channels to become
citizens and are simply waiting for the lengthy process to conclude.

"We are opening ourselves up to litigation, unbelievable costs that we haven't
even estimated," said Del. Mark D. Sickles (D-Fairfax). "We're going to say,
'Now that you can't get some paper out of INS that proves you're here legally,
it's over for you.' "

The emotional floor debate about the bill came as dozens of activists from
Northern Virginia, Hampton Roads and other areas of the state rallied at the
General Assembly building, where they held a late-morning news conference,
pressing lawmakers to redirect their efforts and challenge the federal
government to push for national reform.

"We agree that there has to be an immigration policy at the federal level . . .
but don't punish those that are making an honest living," said Aida Pacheco, who
works for an advocacy agency in Richmond and sits on the board of the Virginia
Coalition of Latino Organizations, a consortium of activist groups. "But these
bills are based on concerns from constituents' fears that are anti-immigrant.
That's the feeling that I get."

Activists said that in most cases, colleges are not enrolling illegal
immigrants, so the bills address a problem that is not widespread.

Backers of the bills said there would be political ramifications for those who
support providing such public benefits to illegal immigrants.

"What are you going to tell the constituent who writes you and says my son
didn't get into [the University of Virginia] because you guys didn't fund enough
spots?" asked Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax). "If that constituent learns that
you thought it was appropriate for somebody who's not even legally supposed to
be in the United States to take their son or daughter's spots, then you've got
problems."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              74 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 7, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Can't Deport The Parents? Punish the Kids

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: Metro; B01 , MARC FISHER

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


They're taking our jobs. They're stealing our slots in colleges. They're out
there on the street corner, scrounging for work, dragging down wages, flouting
our laws. Here in Virginia's capital, you can feel the accelerating drumbeat of
accusations: Whatever the social ill, the cause must be those illegal aliens,
don't you know?

Have no fear: Virginia's lawmakers are once again standing up for real
Americans. If the federal government won't stop illegals at the border, Virginia
will take on the issue. The House of Delegates has passed a bill to give state
police the authority to enforce immigration laws; if the Senate and governor
approve the plan, Virginia would become the third state to let police become
immigration cops when they, for example, make a traffic stop.

Judging by the flurry of bills  --  upwards of 40  --  aiming to restrict
illegal immigrants, you'd think they were taking over every aspect of life in
Virginia.

The House the other day voted 67 to 33 to pass a bill that would ban illegal
immigrants from attending state colleges or universities. Another bill would
simply force them to pay out-of-state tuition rates.

Del. Jeff Frederick (R-Prince William), whose mother is an immigrant from
Colombia, supported the ban as a disincentive to illegal immigration. "Look, my
mother obeyed the laws and worked her butt off to come here," he said. "Like
millions of other people, she waited her turn and played by the rules.

"People are fed up with illegal immigration, and they're demanding we do
something about it. It's the overcrowded houses, the job market with the day
laborers bringing down wages, the health system with hundreds of millions being
spent in Virginia hospitals on illegal aliens, and all those ESL [English as a
Second Language] classes taking away resources from other kids."

But why punish students who came here as little kids and played no role in their
parents' decision to enter this country illegally?

"I feel very sorry for innocent children who through no fault of their own find
themselves undocumented," said Del. Frank Hargrove (R-Hanover), author of the
total ban. "But not going to college is not a passport to failure. We have to
set some rules. We can't educate the whole world."

As for young people who would be banned from Virginia colleges, Hargrove said:
"Let them find something else to do. They can become documented, or we've got
some wonderful private colleges here in Virginia  --  Randolph-Macon or
Washington and Lee."

But, of course, few illegal immigrants can afford  --  or get into  --  fancy
private colleges. Throughout American history, education has been our primary
tool for drawing immigrants  --  legal or not  --  into our traditions and up
the economic ladder.

At Northern Virginia Community College, the state's largest institution of
higher education, about 14,000 of the 65,000 students were not born in the
United States. The largest group of foreign-born students are Asians, followed
by Middle Easterners and then Latinos, said Bob Templin, the college president.
Based on what students tell the school, there are at most 150 illegal immigrants
enrolled at NVCC, he said.

But no, there's "no political spin to this at all," Hargrove insisted. "We're
not going after immigrants. We just want to say that our public institutions are
here for citizens and then for legal aliens."

That explanation makes no sense to Templin and many others on his campus. "We're
talking about a disproportionate amount of attention being devoted to a very
small group," Templin said. "Almost all of our immigrant students are here
lawfully. And all of them pay taxes. If we force immigrant students to pay
out-of-state tuition, we might as well deny them admission. It makes higher
education impractical for them."

In fact, far from taking slots that would have gone to citizens, a
disproportionate number of immigrant students already pay out-of-state tuition,
"which literally creates more capacity for us, because we make money from those
students," Templin said.

The college president  --  who with his wife, Carla, has 14 children, 11 of them
adopted from four continents  --  is flabbergasted by the notion that barring
young people from college can possibly be good for Virginia.

A couple of hours before I spoke to him, Templin had met with Fairfax and
Loudoun county educators, who told him that many Latino immigrants in high
school are under the impression that the state's crackdown on immigrants already
bars them from continuing their education.

"The group that most needs to be encouraged to go to college is increasingly
under the perception that they cannot go to college," he said. "Education for
the immigrant is the gateway to the American dream. These young people did not
decide to come here. They came with their parents, and they've gone to our
public schools and have demonstrated their ability."

In a cafeteria at NVCC the other day, Templin ran into a group of Sudanese
students conducting a fundraiser for victims of Hurricane Katrina. He asked why
they were committing their energies to a domestic cause rather than one in their
native land. Their response stuck with Templin: "They said, 'This is where we
live. That's what we do as Americans.' "

The ban on illegal immigrants now goes to the state Senate.

There's always more on the blog at blog.washingtonpost.com/rawfisher.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              75 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NAFTA and Nativism

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 807 words


Everybody talks about globalization; nobody ever does anything about it. The
world labor market looms over every horizon with its promise of cheaper goods
and lower pay. The public is skeptical, rightly, about the benefits of
globalization, but the process of harnessing it, of writing enforceable rules
that would benefit not just investors but most of our citizens, is hard to even
conceive. And so globalization is experienced by many Americans as a loss of
control. Manufacturing moves to China, engineering to India; que sera, sera.

Except on our borders. With the number of immigrants illegally in the United
States estimated at  11 million, the tensions between Americans and Mexicans  --
chiefly, working-class Americans and working-class Mexicans  --  are rising. And
those are tensions that congressional Republicans, who don't look to have a lot
of other issues they can run on this fall, are eager to stoke.

In December the House approved a bill by Judiciary Committee Chairman James
Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin that would turn all those undocumented immigrants
into felons. It would supersede local ordinances that keep police from inquiring
into the status of people coming forth to report crimes or help in
investigations. It would help create a permanent underground population in our
midst, with no hope of ever attaining legal status.

But the most striking aspect of the assault on undocumented immigrants is that
it has no theory of causality. Over 40 percent of the Mexicans who have come,
legally and illegally, to the United States have done so in the past 15 years.
The boom in undocumenteds is even more concentrated than that: There were just
2.5 million such immigrants in the United States in 1995; fully 8 million have
arrived since then.

Why? It's not because we've let down our guard at the border; to the contrary,
the border is more militarized now than it's ever been. The answer is actually
simpler than that. In large part, it's NAFTA.

The North American Free Trade Agreement was sold, of course, as a boon to the
citizens of the United States, Canada and Mexico  --  guaranteed both to raise
incomes and lower prices, however improbably, throughout the continent.
Bipartisan elites promised that it would stanch the flow of illegal immigrants,
too. "There will be less illegal immigration because more Mexicans will be able
to support their children by staying home," said President Bill Clinton as he
was building support for the measure in the spring of 1993.

But NAFTA, which took effect in 1994, could not have been more precisely crafted
to increase immigration  --  chiefly because of its devastating effect on
Mexican agriculture. As liberal economist Jeff Faux points out in "The Global
Class War," his just-published indictment of the actual workings of the new
economy, Mexico had been home to a poor agrarian sector for generations, which
the government helped sustain through price supports on corn and beans. NAFTA,
though, put those farmers in direct competition with incomparably more efficient
U.S. agribusinesses. It proved to be no contest: From 1993 through 2002, at
least 2 million Mexican farmers were driven off their land.

The experience of Mexican industrial workers under NAFTA hasn't been a whole lot
better. With the passage of NAFTA, the maquiladoras on the border boomed. But
the raison d'etre for these factories was to produce exports at the lowest wages
possible, and with the Mexican government determined to keep its workers from
unionizing, the NAFTA boom for Mexican workers never materialized. In the
pre-NAFTA days of 1975, Faux documents, Mexican wages came to 23 percent of U.S.
wages; in 1993-94, just before NAFTA, they amounted to 15 percent; and by 2002
they had sunk to a mere 12 percent.

The official Mexican poverty rate rose from 45.6 percent in 1994 to 50.3 percent
in 2000. And that was before competition from China began to shutter the
maquiladoras and reduce Mexican wages even more.

So if Sensenbrenner wants to identify a responsible party for the immigration he
so deplores, he might take a peek in the mirror. In the winter of '93, he voted
for NAFTA. He helped establish a system that increased investment opportunities
for major corporations and diminished the rights, power and, in many instances,
living standards of workers on both sides of the border. Now he and his
Republican colleagues are stirring the resentments of the same American workers
they placed in jeopardy by supporting the corporate trade agenda.

Walls on the border won't fix this problem, nor will forcing cops to arrest
entire barrios. So long as the global economy is designed, as NAFTA was, to keep
workers powerless, Mexican desperation and American anger will only grow. Forget
the fence. We need a new rulebook for the world.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              76 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Guardian of the Green Card;
Warrior Against Illegal Immigration Sees Signs of Trouble All Around Her

BYLINE: Carol Morello, Ernesto Londono and Allison Klein, Washington Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1509 words


As she breezed off the plane from Salt Lake City, the woman who had come to
protest illegal immigration crossed paths with a man who first set foot here as
an illegal immigrant.

Carmen Mercer bustled into Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall
Airport wearing a big red and white sticker on her jacket that said, "Secure
America Now! No to Amnesty."

It was amnesty, granted a few years after he entered the country illegally from
El Salvador, that allowed Cadelario Reyes to build a landscaping business in
Gaithersburg. As Mercer's flight landed, Reyes's 24-year-old son was about to
depart for duty in the Navy, and the two men embraced near the security gate.

Mercer, 51, a petite grandmother, had come to Washington for today's Capitol
Hill rally by the Minuteman Project, an activist group that wants to seal the
nation's borders against illegal immigration and torpedo President Bush's
proposed guest-worker program for illegals. Locally, a Minuteman chapter has
tracked immigrants at a site where day laborers gather in Herndon.

Though she runs a diner barely 30 miles north of the Mexican border in
Tombstone, Ariz., Mercer said she once was oblivious to the tide of immigration.

"For years, I never was aware of it," Mercer said as she headed toward the
baggage carousel, near the newsstand where Gilda, from Guatemala, and Maria,
from Mexico, chatted amiably in Spanish in between ringing up purchases. "Now I
see it everywhere."

In the Washington region, where an estimated one in six residents is
foreign-born, she would see a thousand faces of immigration during her visit.

Her eyes were opened to them by the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. As she
was becoming more vigilant, Arizona had an influx of people after crackdowns
along the Mexican border in California and Texas.

"I can guarantee terrorists have come across the border," she said. "I don't
want 9/11 to happen again. It's a national security thing."

Mercer walked toward the rental car shuttle, past cabdrivers from Russia, Africa
and Asia waiting by the curb, and by Olawoyin Dauda, a Nigerian who moved to the
United States after his computer business tanked. He now stood beside his blue
Super Shuttle van.

For now, the buffalo burgers in her Tombstone diner are being served by her 13
employees, freeing Mercer for what she considers her patriotic duty.

Many nights, she has headed into the Arizona desert in her Chevrolet pickup, on
patrol with another woman. Locals call them the Granny Brigade.

They sit on lawn chairs perched on hilltops or in the brush, armed with
night-vision goggles, walkie-talkies and guns. Mercer's is a .45-caliber Colt.
She holsters it in a custom gun belt with leather loops to hold bullets, like a
bandoleer.

But it has become harder to find time for patrolling. Mercer is vice president,
chief fundraiser and national recruiter for Minuteman, as well as director of
the Tucson chapter. The group started less than a year ago with 400 members.
Now, she estimated, they have signed up 8,000.

She said that part of the solution would be a tall, concrete wall erected along
the entire 2,000-mile Mexican border between California and Texas.

"All they have to do is secure the borders," she said. "We won't have fear of
terrorists coming across. We won't have fear of the sex-slave trade. We won't
have criminals crossing."

Noticing a young man in an Army uniform struggling under a pile of green bags in
the rental car terminal, she dashed to hold open the door for him.

"He's going to Iraq," she said, returning to her seat. "I love soldiers. They're
our protection. They should be on our border."

At the Holiday Inn in Alexandria, a man with a Jamaican accent helped check in
Mercer, who has a slight accent of her own. Outside, where taxis lined up four
and five deep, the accents of the drivers were those of the Middle East and
Africa.

"It is very hard to survive here if you want to live in a proper place," said
cabby Khalil Siddiqui, 48, who has a master's degree from a university in
Pakistan and is a naturalized U.S. citizen.

The corner gas station three blocks away was staffed by a man from Pakistan and
two women, one from Ethiopia and the other from India.

"Foreign people are hard workers," said Tahir Younis, 28, the mechanic. "You go
to McDonald's, and who works there? Foreigners. If there were not foreigners,
what would you do?"

At a nearby fast-food restaurant, a 21-year-old woman mopped the floor. She
chatted openly in Spanish, until the topic of a green card was raised. Then she
lowered her head, hushed her voice to barely a whisper and said she could no
longer speak because she had to return to her work.

When Mercer last visited Washington in May, she said, she and another Minuteman
asked the drivers of all the cabs they took whether they were citizens. If they
said they were not, Mercer and her colleague asked for their green cards. Mercer
said they wanted to prove a point and did not report anyone to immigration
authorities.

Recently, Mercer's landlord paid for a new roof on the building housing her
diner. She fed every member of the crew, except for two who stayed in the
trailer. She later learned that they did not have green cards.

"If I'd have seen them, I would have reported them," she said.

In a dimly lit alley behind a row of restaurants in Alexandria, workers slipped
out of back doors to smoke or haul heavy trash bins to a dumpster. The alley was
slick with fetid puddles and dirty with discarded cigarette butts. The only
light shone through the bars of an adjacent parking garage.

Nelson Posada emerged from a restaurant door into the alley dragging a garbage
can. Originally from Honduras, he crossed the border illegally, traversing the
Arizona desert in 1994. He left behind a 6-month-old boy who knows his father
only from phone conversations and the money he wires home.

Posada, who works two full-time jobs six days a week, has relatives who talk of
following him here. He tells them the border is not what it used to be when he
crossed by paying smugglers $2,000.

Now, immigrants face a beefed-up U.S. Border Patrol and private citizens
scouring the desert, on the lookout for undocumented foreigners.

"I'd like for the United States to give us papers," he said. "We come to work,
and that benefits us both."

Seated at a table in a seafood restaurant just off the alley, Mercer ordered her
dinner from a menu that featured on the back the photographs and names of a
half-dozen employees with Latino names and their years of service.

It is a rare dinner out for Mercer, who on principle has cut back on patronizing
restaurants.

"I stopped, because wherever you go, you constantly find people are working
there illegally," she said. "I'm not saying that's the case here. But if 80
percent of the kitchen staff is from another country, you wonder."

After a breakfast omelet served yesterday by a waiter from Pakistan, Mercer went
sightseeing at the Jefferson Memorial. Near the end of a biographical film on
Jefferson, the movie showed the Statue of Liberty and Jefferson's words, "Shall
oppressed humanity find no asylum on this globe?"

Mercer purchased two pamphlets, one on the U.S. Constitution and one on the
Founding Fathers, from a Filipina cashier in the gift shop.

At a construction site near the memorial, a work crew was directed with orders
shouted in Spanish over the noise of heavy machinery. On the crew was Ernesto
Valdez, 36, a native of the Mexican state of Guerrero. He came to the country
illegally but received amnesty in the mid-1980s. The immigration documents
allowed him to be hired on a project on federal property; without documents, he
would have been excluded.

But requirements for regular construction sites are more lax, he noted. Despite
tougher immigration laws, the lure of dollars remains strong.

"People keep crossing," said Valdez, wearing stained jeans, a white hard hat and
a green vest. "It's a big problem."

On that point, Mercer would agree. And she is determined to do her part to stop
it.

"You can't have a country if you don't have borders," she said. "If we don't do
something now, we might not have another chance."

Mercer moved to Tombstone in 1992 after a divorce from a soldier ended the
migration from base to base  --  Florida, North Carolina, New Mexico, Germany
and Arizona  --  so common to military life.

They'd met when he was stationed in Germany, where Mercer was born and raised in
a small town near Cologne.

She might never have become a U.S. citizen had she not been kicked off a local
planning and zoning committee in Arizona when it was discovered she was not. In
1999, almost a quarter-century after coming to the United States, she was
naturalized.

She remembers being one of about 500 people naturalized that day.

"Two of us were from Germany, one was Russian, one was Japanese and two were
from Korea," said Mercer, who speaks with only the slightest hint of a German
accent and thinks and dreams in English. "The rest, about 480 of them, were from
Mexico."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              77 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Rise of the Minuteman Project

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 134 words


The Minuteman Project organization first gained national attention when its
members began civilian patrols of the Mexican border to combat crossings by
illegal immigrants.

Undeterred by criticism from President Bush and Mexican President Vincente Fox,
the group extended its high-profile efforts to the Canadian border last year. It
gained local prominence when a chapter in Virginia began to photograph immigrant
day laborers who gathered daily to meet potential employers at a center in
Herndon. The group said the photographs would be forwarded to federal
authorities.

The group's founder, Jim Gilchrist, a Californian who recently made an
unsuccessful bid for Congress as an independent, said in a statement, "Our goal
is to stop the illegal alien 'guest worker amnesty program' dead in its tracks."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              78 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Tuition Bill Would Aid Some Illegal Immigrants;
GOP Senator Has Change of Heart

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 9


A senator who wanted to prevent all illegal immigrants in Virginia from getting
the residents' tuition break at state universities changed his mind and on
Thursday proposed the first legal avenue for some to pay the reduced fee.

Swayed by immigrant advocates and his own experiences, Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr.
(R-Augusta) amended his bill to offer the lower, in-state tuition to
undocumented students who are pursuing legal residency, who graduated from a
Virginia high school and whose families have paid income taxes for at least
three years.

"It's not like they just showed up today," he said of such students. "They've
been in the school systems, and they've been good role models. They just lack
appropriate documentation. This can be an incentive to help them."

Advocates for immigrants said they were pleased and surprised at the turnabout.

"This is a historic vote," said Luis Parada, a lawyer who works with immigrants.
"Regardless of how it turns out, I think it's great that for once we're working
for something positive for immigrants in Virginia."

Hanger said he has become convinced that students who graduate from Virginia
high schools should not be punished because their parents came to the United
States illegally. At the same time, his bill would bar illegal immigrants whose
parents have not been paying taxes or who are not actively seeking to become
legal from receiving in-state tuition.

"It makes the statement about illegal immigration but in a way that . . . it has
a very positive effect for those who want to become U.S. citizens and are going
through process," he said.

The senator said his opinions have been shaped by watching his son's fiancee, an
immigrant from the Philippines who became a U.S. citizen recently. He said he
also has presided at inspiring naturalization ceremonies in the Shenandoah
Valley for immigrants becoming citizens. His goal, he said, is to encourage
students who arrive as children to pursue legal residency and pay taxes  --
offering in-state tuition as a carrot to ensure they do.

"When those immigrants become citizens and the oath of loyalty they take, and
what they go through to do that . . . it makes you appreciate the citizenship we
enjoy," he said.

In a year when the House of Delegates has passed bills cracking down on illegal
immigration, including one that would bar undocumented students from attending
public colleges, Hanger's bill would make Virginia only the 10th state to
explicitly offer the tuition benefit.

The bill received unanimous and bipartisan support from the Senate's Education
and Health Committee, including from several members who previously opposed the
idea. Some said they did so because the bill could be a tool to ensure that
illegal immigrants who don't qualify will have to pay higher tuition.

"This is absolutely a new prohibition," said Sen. Stephen D. Newman
(R-Lynchburg). "It's a narrow prohibition, but it's still a new prohibition."

Advocates for immigrants say, however, that Virginia colleges charge
undocumented students out-of-state tuition and some do not admit them at all.

House Republicans predicted that Hanger's bill would die quickly in their
chamber if it gets out of the Senate.

"Our public colleges and universities are there for documented aliens and legal
citizens," said Del. Frank D. Hargrove Sr. (R-Hanover), who sponsored the bill
to bar illegal immigrants from state college admissions. The bill passed the
House by a vote of 67 to 33. "We have to draw a line in dealing with this
immigrant problem we have."

Claire Guthrie Gastañaga, a lobbyist who represents immigrant groups, said
Hanger's shift gives her new optimism about the direction of the debate.

"I certainly did not expect what happened today to happen," she said. "I'm not
going to say I couldn't be surprised again."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              79 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Tuition Break Sought For Some Va. Illegals

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 9


A senator who wanted to prevent all illegal immigrants in Virginia from getting
the residents' tuition break at state universities changed his mind and on
Thursday proposed the first legal avenue for some to pay the reduced fee.

Swayed by immigrant advocates and his own experiences, Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr.
(R-Augusta) amended his bill to offer the lower, in-state tuition to
undocumented students who are pursuing legal residency, who graduated from a
Virginia high school and whose families have paid income taxes for at least
three years.

"It's not like they just showed up today," he said of such students. "They've
been in the school systems, and they've been good role models. They just lack
appropriate documentation. This can be an incentive to help them."

Advocates for immigrants said they were pleased and surprised at the turnabout.

"This is a historic vote," said Luis Parada, a lawyer who works with immigrants.
"Regardless of how it turns out, I think it's great that for once we're working
for something positive for immigrants in Virginia."

Hanger said he has become convinced that students who graduate from Virginia
high schools should not be punished because their parents came to the United
States illegally. At the same time, his bill would bar illegal immigrants whose
parents have not been paying taxes or who are not actively seeking to become
legal from receiving in-state tuition.

"It makes the statement about illegal immigration but in a way that . . . it has
a very positive effect for those who want to become U.S. citizens and are going
through process," he said.

The senator said his opinions have been shaped by watching his son's fiancee, an
immigrant from the Philippines who became a U.S. citizen recently. He said he
also has presided at inspiring naturalization ceremonies in the Shenandoah
Valley for immigrants becoming citizens. His goal, he said, is to encourage
students who arrive as children to pursue legal residency and pay taxes  --
offering in-state tuition as a carrot to ensure they do.

"When those immigrants become citizens and the oath of loyalty they take, and
what they go through to do that . . . it makes you appreciate the citizenship we
enjoy," he said.

In a year when the House of Delegates has passed bills cracking down on illegal
immigration, including one that would bar undocumented students from attending
public colleges, Hanger's bill would make Virginia only the 10th state to
explicitly offer the tuition benefit.

The bill received unanimous and bipartisan support from the Senate's Education
and Health Committee, including from several members who previously opposed the
idea. Some said they did so because the bill could be a tool to ensure that
illegal immigrants who don't qualify will have to pay higher tuition.

"This is absolutely a new prohibition," said Sen. Stephen D. Newman
(R-Lynchburg). "It's a narrow prohibition, but it's still a new prohibition."

Advocates for immigrants say, however, that Virginia colleges charge
undocumented students out-of-state tuition and some do not admit them at all.

House Republicans predicted that Hanger's bill would die quickly in their
chamber if it gets out of the Senate.

"Our public colleges and universities are there for documented aliens and legal
citizens," said Del. Frank D. Hargrove Sr. (R-Hanover), who sponsored the bill
to bar illegal immigrants from state college admissions. The bill passed the
House by a vote of 67 to 33. "We have to draw a line in dealing with this
immigrant problem we have."

Claire Guthrie Gastañaga, a lobbyist who represents immigrant groups, said
Hanger's shift gives her new optimism about the direction of the debate.

"I certainly did not expect what happened today to happen," she said. "I'm not
going to say I couldn't be surprised again."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              80 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mr. Hanger's Change of Heart

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 512 words


VIRGINIA STATE Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr. (R-Augusta) has had a remarkable change
of heart, for which we must apparently credit his son's fiancee. Until recently
Mr. Hanger, who represents a slice of the Shenandoah Valley, was just another
Republican lawmaker who had no time or sympathy for the plight of illegal
immigrants. He wanted, for instance, to deny illegal aliens in-state tuition
rates at Virginia's colleges and universities, even if they'd lived their whole
lives in the state. Then along came his son's fiancee, an immigrant from the
Philippines who recently got U.S. citizenship, and presto! Mr. Hanger has
amended his own bill to extend the reduced-tuition benefit to undocumented
students as long as they graduated from a Virginia high school, are pursuing
legal residency and belong to families that have paid income taxes for at least
three years.

What a shame there aren't more Virginia legislators whose lives or families have
been touched by the state's 720,000 foreign-born residents, who include perhaps
200,000 without legal documents. If there were, maybe Virginia's legislature
wouldn't be the hot spot for immigrant-bashing that it has become.

For a second straight year the House of Delegates has approved a slew of bills
designed to harass and hassle undocumented residents without bothering to
explain why the state should expend time and money doing the federal
government's job of enforcing immigration laws. This year's crop of bills
includes a measure to exclude undocumented students from public institutions of
higher education and another (like Mr. Hanger's original legislation in the
Senate) to deny them in-state tuition. Never mind if they've lived here since
age 2, the effect is to punish children for the acts of their parents. There is
a bill that essentially turns state police officers into immigration agents.
Never mind that the police don't want to do it. Yet another would require the
motor vehicles department to supply state elections officials with the names of
licensed non-citizens so that they would be excluded from voting. Never mind
that there's no reason to think that they do vote.

If there were any evidence that illegal immigrants in Virginia were displacing
Americans in the state's colleges and universities, or preoccupying the state's
police, or tipping state elections through their cunning ways at the ballot box,
it's a sure bet that anti-immigrant state lawmakers would broadcast it loud and
long. But there is no such evidence. Naturally, none of these bills, if they
became law, would have the slightest impact on the genuine national dilemma of
illegal immigration. But they would play to that segment of the electorate
animated by nativism, chauvinism and xenophobia.

Chances are good that the state Senate, where cooler heads prevail, will direct
these bullying bills to oblivion, where they belong. Barring that, Gov. Timothy
M. Kaine (D) will certainly veto them. In the meantime, the effect of the
legislation is to create for Virginia a brutish, nasty image that it does not
deserve.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              81 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 16, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

On U.S. Borders, Not All Green or Black and White

SECTION: Editorial; A26

LENGTH: 233 words


Regarding the Feb. 8 Metro story "Guardian of the Green Card":

Somebody should inform Carmen Mercer, who likes to demand green cards from her
taxi drivers, that this permanent residency card is not the only documentation
that allows foreigners to live in this country legally. Thousands of people
live, study and work in the United States on many classifications of visas. In
the 16 years that my husband has lived here he has held an F1 visa, an H1 visa
and a green card, and he is now a citizen.

Further, am I the only one who sees the irony in Ms. Mercer being an immigrant
who was able to come here via marriage to a U.S. citizen? Since she is now
divorced from that citizen, can we send her back to Germany?

JEANNINE PIACENZA

Bethesda

*

The Metro story about Carmen Mercer, in noting that  she is a naturalized
citizen, seems intended to cast her as hypocritical, anti-immigrant and paranoid
(there are several references to "terrorists" and she is quoted as saying of
illegal immigration, "I see it everywhere").

The essence of Ms. Mercer's campaign  --   fighting  the ex post facto
legalization of illegal immigration  --  was lost in the clutter of vignettes of
other immigrants. The story more accurately could have been given the headline
"Naturalized Citizen Supports Legal Immigration, Fights Amnesty for Illegal
Aliens."

Where was the objectivity?

GARDINER PEARSON

McLean

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              82 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 26, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Minutemen Protest Md. Day-Labor Sites

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 933 words


The Minutemen have crossed the border.

After waging a high-profile fight in Northern Virginia against a center where
employers can go to hire temporary workers, the anti-illegal immigration group
has expanded into Maryland. In recent weeks, its members have patrolled centers
funded by the Montgomery County government in Wheaton and Takoma Park that
assist day laborers. They also have monitored a Gaithersburg parking lot as well
as others in Montgomery and Prince George's County where men gather almost every
morning, said Stephen Schreiman, director of the group's new chapter.

"The objective here is to send a clear message to the business community that
it's illegal to hire undocumented workers and it's illegal not to pay
appropriate taxes," said Schreiman, who couldn't specifically say how many
people had joined the new chapter.

The group said it has recruited dozens of volunteers who plan to photograph
laborers and the people seeking to hire them at centers in Silver Spring and
Baltimore. Typically, three to six people take pictures at each site on any
morning, Schreiman said. Day-laborer centers provide jobs for illegal immigrants
and should not be funded by a county government, the group says.

But advocates for immigrants say the sole purpose is intimidation.

"The good news is that these Minutemen are yet another in the long line of
radical fringe groups that will die of their own weight in Montgomery County
because they don't speak for Montgomery County," said County Council member Tom
Perez (D-Silver Spring). About 40 percent of the county's 930,000 residents are
foreign born.

The Minuteman Project began attracting national attention when members initiated
civilian patrols of the Mexican border in an effort to inhibit border crossings.
The opening of a day-laborer center in Herndon last year galvanized the group
and its opponents in Northern Virginia.

Montgomery has become a battleground in the debate because of its efforts to
expand services to immigrants, regardless of their legal status. The
county-funded centers in Silver Spring and Wheaton  --  as well as the temporary
site in Takoma Park  --  are run by CASA of Maryland, a nonprofit advocacy
group.

The Maryland Minutemen formed amid controversy over the county's efforts to open
another center in Gaithersburg. Local officials found a building, signed a lease
and allocated money for the center. Then, city officials reversed course in
October after residents complained. Gaithersburg's mayor and City Council have
appointed a task force to decide on the next move.

Typically, 50 workers gather in the parking lot of Grace United Methodist Church
almost every morning. On Friday, about a dozen men stood outside while another
dozen sipped coffee and ate ham-and-cheese sandwiches inside.

"When you come here, you come to work, not to harm anyone," said Alvaro Soto,
45, who moved to Maryland last month after spending a year in New York. He said
he sends money home to his family in Guatemala.

Schreiman, a Gaithersburg resident, said his Minutemen members believe CASA of
Maryland should either stop serving undocumented workers or give up public
funding. "We're talking about people who shouldn't be here, and they're having a
negative impact on the quality of life," he said.

Supporters of the day-laborer centers criticize what they call the extreme
tactics of the Minutemen. They argue that the group's dispute should be with the
federal government, which enforces immigration laws.

"They ought to get on the Red Line, get off at Union Station, walk to Capitol
Hill and engage in a dialogue about immigration reform," Perez said. "Their beef
is with people in Congress."

Immigration advocates have attempted to turn the tables on the Minutemen.

Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland, said his organization is
training people to observe and take photos of the Minutemen's members. "If they
keep harassing our community, we are going to demonstrate in front of their
houses and in front of their workplaces to let the neighborhood know how
anti-immigrant they are," he said. "It's going to be a shame for their family."

Schreiman said he was attacked with a laser pointer earlier this month when he
went to the parking lot next to Grace United Methodist by himself to photograph
workers and employers. He said he filed a report with the police after
experiencing a headache for 10 hours.

In Maryland, as in Arizona, Virginia and a number of other states, illegal
immigration has become a hot-button political issue.

Several immigration-related bills have been introduced in Annapolis this
legislative session, including one that would require Marylanders to prove they
are in the country legally to get a driver's license. Another bill seeks to make
English the official language of Baltimore County.

The issue has crept into the race for Montgomery county executive. On Friday,
Chuck Floyd, 56, a former State Department employee, announced his bid for the
Republican nomination, promising to keep day-laborer centers from serving
undocumented workers.

"It's time for the public officials elected to stand up and say enough is enough
and enforce the law," he said.

Day-laborer center supporters say a national wave of anti-immigration sentiment
is fueling the opposition.

"What I'm hearing now is that it's okay to speak in common circles against the
immigrant," said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D), a Salvadoran immigrant who
represents Montgomery. "The tone, the acceptance, is what I've never seen here,
and I've lived in the U.S. close to 60 years."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              83 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 26, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Minutemen Protest at Md. Day-Labor Centers

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C07

LENGTH: 696 words


The Minutemen have crossed the border.

After waging a high-profile fight in Northern Virginia against a center where
employers can go to hire temporary workers, the anti-illegal immigration group
has expanded into Maryland. In recent weeks, its members have patrolled centers
funded by the Montgomery County government in Wheaton and Takoma Park that
assist day laborers. They also have monitored a Gaithersburg parking lot as well
as others in Montgomery and Prince George's County where men gather almost every
morning, said Stephen Schreiman, director of the group's new chapter.

"The objective here is to send a clear message to the business community that
it's illegal to hire undocumented workers and it's illegal not to pay
appropriate taxes," said Schreiman, who couldn't specifically say how many
people had joined the new chapter.

The group said it has recruited dozens of volunteers who plan to photograph
laborers and the people seeking to hire them at centers in Silver Spring and
Baltimore. Typically, three to six people take pictures at each site on any
morning, Schreiman said. Day-laborer centers provide jobs for illegal immigrants
and should not be funded by a county government, the group says. But advocates
for immigrants say the sole purpose is intimidation.

"The good news is that these Minutemen are yet another in the long line of
radical fringe groups that will die of their own weight in Montgomery County
because they don't speak for Montgomery County," said County Council member Tom
Perez (D-Silver Spring). About 40 percent of the county's 930,000 residents are
foreign born.

Montgomery has become a battleground in the debate because of its efforts to
expand services to immigrants, regardless of their legal status. The
county-funded centers in Silver Spring and Wheaton  --  as well as the temporary
site in Takoma Park  --  are run by CASA of Maryland, a nonprofit advocacy
group.

The Maryland Minutemen formed amid controversy over the county's efforts to open
another center in Gaithersburg. Local officials found a building, signed a lease
and allocated money. Then, city officials reversed course in October after
residents complained. Gaithersburg's mayor and City Council have appointed a
task force to decide on the next move.

Typically, 50 workers gather in the parking lot of Grace United Methodist Church
almost every morning. On Friday, about a dozen men stood outside while another
dozen sipped coffee and ate ham-and-cheese sandwiches inside.

"When you come here, you come to work, not to harm anyone," said Alvaro Soto,
45, who moved to Maryland last month after spending a year in New York. He said
he sends money home to his family in Guatemala.

Schreiman,of Gaithersburg , said Minutemen members believe CASA of Maryland
should either stop serving undocumented workers or give up public funding.
Supporters of the day-laborer centers criticize what they call the extreme
tactics of the Minutemen. They argue that the group's dispute should be with the
federal government, which enforces immigration laws.

Immigration advocates have attempted to turn the tables on the Minutemen.

Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland, said his organization is
training people to observe and take photos of the Minutemen's members. "If they
keep harassing our community, we are going to demonstrate in front of their
houses and in front of their workplaces to let the neighborhood know how
anti-immigrant they are," he said. "It's going to be a shame for their family."

The issue has crept into the race for Montgomery county executive. On Friday,
Chuck Floyd, 56, a former State Department employee, announced his bid for the
Republican nomination, promising to keep day-laborer centers from serving
undocumented workers.

Day-laborer center supporters say a national wave of anti-immigration sentiment
is fueling opposition.

"What I'm hearing now is that it's okay to speak in common circles against the
immigrant," said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D), a Salvadoran immigrant who
represents Montgomery. "The tone, the acceptance, is what I've never seen here,
and I've lived in the U.S. close to 60 years."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              84 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Feb. 26-March 4

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 610 words


A House of Delegates subcommittee effectively killed for the year a bill that
would have allowed some illegal immigrants access to in-state tuition rates at
Virginia colleges and universities.

Members of the subcommittee said they were concerned about an informal opinion
issued by a deputy attorney general that suggested that extending in-state
tuition to illegal immigrants might force the state to offer similar tuition
breaks to non-Virginian U.S. citizens as well. They voted to carry the bill over
for further consideration until next year.

The bill, sponsored by Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr. (R-Augusta), would have barred
many illegal immigrants from receiving the lower rates given to Virginians.
However, it would have made an exception for undocumented students who had
graduated from a Virginia high school, whose parents had paid income taxes for
at least three years and who swore they were pursuing legal residency.

Maryland prosecutors will not seek the death penalty for sniper John Allen
Muhammad when he goes on trial in May, Montgomery County State's Attorney
Douglas F. Gansler said.

Muhammad, 45, was sentenced to death in Virginia in March 2004 after being
convicted of killing one of the 10 people slain during the October 2002 sniper
shootings that terrified the Washington area for three weeks.

Gansler said he decided to seek life without the possibility of parole for
Muhammad  --  who is charged with randomly killing six people in Maryland with a
teenage accomplice, Lee Boyd Malvo  --  because under Maryland law, prosecutors
would have had a hard time obtaining the death penalty in the case.

Prince William would surpass Arlington as the county with the lowest tax rate in
Northern Virginia under spending plans released by the two jurisdictions.

For more than 20 years, Arlington has had the lowest tax rate among the largest
jurisdictions in Northern Virginia, and Prince William historically has had one
of the highest. But soaring tax revenue in the growing county led Prince William
County Executive Craig S. Gerhart to propose slashing the county's tax rate by
about 15 cents, more than double the proposed rate cuts offered by his
counterparts in Arlington, Loudoun and Fairfax counties.

The rate cut would keep the average Prince William tax bill the lowest in
Northern Virginia, county officials said. But property owners still would pay
5.7 percent more in taxes than last year in part because the county had the
region's highest average increase in assessments, 25.5 percent.

A 33-year-old Arlington architect was killed in the District after he was struck
by an errant bullet fired during a dispute over a parking space outside a jazz
club on U Street NW, D.C. police said.

The shooting occurred just before 3 a.m. last Sunday as nightclub activity was
winding down and patrons were spilling out onto U Street.

The Arlington man, Damon Ward, was hit in the chest, police said. A 21-year-old
woman was hit but not injured seriously, police said.

A Fairfax County jury awarded $8 million to the family of an Oakton High School
student who was killed in 2002 when a truck driver fell asleep and crushed the
car the teenager was riding in.

David Chu, 17, and Jacob Wilens, 16, had just finished their first day of school
at Oakton, and Wilens was driving them home on Route 50 about 2:45 p.m. Sept. 3,
2002, when they stopped at a stoplight at Alder Woods Drive.

Dwayne Mongold, then 34, was a truck driver for Danella Construction Corp.
heading to his home in West Virginia. According to court records, Mongold told
police he nodded off once as he drove west on Route 50 but kept driving the
truck and trailer.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              85 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Bill Sends Chill Through Rally;
Near Capitol, Thousands Protest Sanctions for Those Who Help Illegal Residents

BYLINE: Paul Schwartzman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 637 words


Thousands of people massed outside the U.S. Capitol yesterday to protest
proposed federal legislation that they contend would allow law enforcement
authorities to prosecute social service workers, doctors and other professionals
who help illegal immigrants.

Chanting "Si se puede!" ("Yes you can!") and holding signs that proclaimed "We
are not Criminals," the crowd roared as speakers derided the legislation and
proclaimed immigrants the long-standing backbone of the nation's workforce.

"You do not become American because you're lucky enough to be born of wealthy
parents," Rep. James P. Moran (D-Va.) told the crowd, which stretched from the
steps leading to the entrance on the Capitol's west side to its reflecting pool
below. "You become an American by working hard and providing for your family. By
that definition, you are true Americans."

Standing among the throng, Jose Padeaidad, 26, a Rehoboth Beach, Del., chef who
emigrated from Guatemala, nodded and said the proposed legislation would make it
difficult to help cousins who are not citizens look for jobs and housing. "It
would be a risk for us," he said. "I could go to jail."

The rally occurred as the Senate Judiciary Committee considers a compromise bill
proposed by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), which would focus on border security
while creating a "visa program enabling employers to hire foreign workers when
no willing U.S. workers are available."

Specter's bill also contains a provision that opponents say would criminalize
social service workers who feed and house illegal immigrants by classifying them
as human traffickers. "We are a nation of immigrants, but we are a nation of
laws," Specter, the committee's chairman, wrote in a Feb. 24 letter to his
colleagues.

In December, the House passed legislation that would impose sanctions on those
who assist illegal immigrants. The bill, known as H.R. 4437 and sponsored by
Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) and Peter T. King (R-N.Y.), also calls
for the construction of 700 miles of fencing along the Mexican border.

Proponents have praised the legislation for seeking to protect the United States
from terrorists and strengthen the country's borders, over which an estimated 1
million illegal immigrants pass yearly. But the bill's opponents, which have
included labor unions and prominent clergy such as Cardinal Theodore E.
McCarrick, archbishop of Washington, have dismissed it as draconian.

The demonstration, organized by the National Capital Immigration Coalition, drew
people from across the region, many of them carrying small U.S. flags as they
assembled in the late afternoon and listened to a roster of speakers that
included politicians such as Kweise Mfume (D), the former head of the NAACP who
is running for the U.S. Senate in Maryland. Organizers of the protest had
predicted a turnout of 20,000, but a spokeswoman for the coalition said last
night that the crowd far exceeded that. Police do not release crowd estimates so
the turnout could not be confirmed.

"We want a voice," said Felix Mcacos, 32, a Guatemalan maintenance worker who
drove from Georgetown, Del., with his 8-year-old son, who sat atop his
shoulders, his head warmed by a Spiderman ski cap.

A few feet away, a man who identified himself only as Jose, a 31-year-old
Mexican construction worker who lives in Alexandria, said the House bill would
hurt people who "are coming only for work, to feed our children. We are not
terrorists."

Marisol Albornoz, 55, a Chilean immigrant who lives in Bethesda, took the
afternoon off from her job as a manager of a medical office.

Instead of seeking to impose controls on immigrants, she said, the federal
government should recognize their contributions. "This country has always been a
melting pot," she said. "Why should it be any different now?"

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              86 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Crossing the Line

BYLINE: Michael Leahy

SECTION: Magazine; W12

LENGTH: 7215 words


The Minutemen of Herndon are determined to stop illegal immigration. But does
America really want that?

The deep bags under his eyes give him the look of a man who has spent an
adulthood rising while most of the world sleeps. "I need some coffee," he says
as he walks. He learned how to start a day at dawn during two long stints in the
Navy, and nowadays, at 51, he typically gets up in darkness to begin his workday
as a computer software engineer at 6 a.m. in a Maryland office, a considerable
drive from his quiet cul-de-sac in Herndon.

But George Taplin won't be in his office early today. "If the day laborers get
up early to get here, it means our people gotta be out here early, too," he
says. "Simple as that. We'll see how many of ours come out today."

Taplin had quietly arisen on this winter morning so as not to disturb his wife.
He left the house alone and is ready to log a few more hours on a volunteer
mission: striving to rid Herndon of all undocumented workers and to "do our part
to help discourage illegal aliens from crossing the Mexican border and creating
problems for towns like ours."

The head of the Herndon Minutemen, part of a national organization devoted to
repelling illegal migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border and at labor sites across
the country, Taplin is regarded in his town as everything from patriot to
pariah. While a small band of loyalists flock to his early morning vigils, some
acquaintances have been quick to give him the cold shoulder. One of his many
volunteer activities around town involves teaching a religion class to children
at his Catholic church, and he says a fellow teacher approached him to say his
Minutemen activities were "un-Christian and hypocritical." These days, he
occasionally turns at the sound of a blaring horn to see a stranger raising a
middle finger at him.

He walks into a Herndon diner called Amphora, his secret gathering spot today, a
one-block stroll to where a crowd of Latino day laborers has already gathered to
wait for potential employers. "We'd prefer that no one from our group show up
over there at the site alone," he says. "It's smarter and safer to leave
together as a group. We alternate the meeting spot so no one from their side
knows exactly where we'll be."

Taplin orders a coffee and cranes his neck toward the entrance, where, in the
next few minutes, half of his little brigade trickles in: Bill Campenni, the
retired Air National Guard fighter pilot; his wife, Kathleen, the Canadian
emigre who is now a U.S. citizen; Diane Bonieskie, the retired schoolteacher;
Jeff Talley, who says he's losing his aircraft repair job because it's being
outsourced to Mexico; and Joe, who won't provide his last name or say what he
does because "who knows who might get the information."

"Hey, Joe, have some coffee," George urges him. "Anyone know what it's looking
like over at the 7-Eleven?"

"They're there," someone answers. "About the same number."

Taplin has two large cameras that dangle from his neck on cords and make him
look like part of the paparazzi. He removes a walkie-talkie from a jacket
pocket, swigs some coffee, clears his throat of its early morning huskiness and
says, "Okay, we ready?"

He steps outside, looking down an alley that runs behind the 7-Eleven where the
workers have gathered for years. He notices a couple of men observing him from a
van, gesturing his way. One of them raises a camera to take a photo of Taplin.
"Well, I guess we're not going to be surprising them today," he says, smirking.
"We take pictures of them, and they take pictures of us. What they do now is run
back to the 7-Eleven and tell all the workers that we're coming: The Minutemen
are coming, the Minutemen are coming, the Minutemen are coming. Maybe they think
if they photograph us, they can scare us away. Sorry. No way."

Not all of the Herndon Minutemen are happy with the scrutiny. A few in Taplin's
group worry that some immigrant rights activists might be prepared to follow and
harass them. Taplin himself says he is unworried, but a new caution permeates
everything he does. He doesn't want anyone mentioning where he works. He says he
has been "led to believe" that there could be some repercussions for him at his
job if there is too much attention drawn to his work as a Minuteman. This
reminds him of something. He turns to the group and says, "I need to be out of
here at 9:30 to get to work."

Nods around him.

"Oh, look at that guy, the guy behind the wheel," he snaps, pointing at a van
that is stopping to pick up two workers in the alley. In that moment, in his
fury, Taplin makes clear why, even amid his wife's worries about privacy and his
concerns about his superiors' reactions at work, he feels he must be out here.
"This is why we must stop this. See that guy? He's a contractor; he was around
here last week hiring. A repeat offender. I want to get his picture." But before
he can raise his camera, the guy has driven off. Taplin, scowling, makes a note
of the license plate. "That's okay, I recognize him . . . I'll get him next
time."

His brigade is 10 strong today. "You know what? He was a white guy. Latino
contractors are way down since we started coming. What does that tell you? What
does that tell you? The number of day laborers is down some, but, if we keep
this up, I think the Latino contractors are going to dry up completely. You know
why?"

He touches his walkie-talkie, plays with the button. Crackle-crackle. "Because
their culture is built around staying below the radar and staying away from
authority. They don't want the threat of being exposed, because they're illegal
themselves a lot of the time, and their [businesses] are unlicensed" with
Herndon and the state of Virginia.

Taplin's interest in the Minutemen's cause was ignited last year, he says, when
he heard that a drunken Hispanic man had talked crudely and sexually to
elementary school children at a bus stop. But, if that moment served as the
spark, the dry tinder had been building in his mind for a while. "I started
looking at the mess that this 7-Eleven was becoming, the eyesore," he recalls.
"People hanging out when there weren't jobs or after they were done looking for
work that day. It comes back to their culture. I spent some time in Rio when I
was in the Navy. They didn't respect the land in Rio. They urinated on streets,
they threw trash, bottles . . . When you come here, you're going to do what you
did in your culture. You're going to do what you know."

Last summer, he called the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps' president, Chris
Simcox, who lives in Arizona and has come to be regarded by the membership as
the organization's seminal force, a hero to admirers who have compared him to
George Washington. Simcox granted Taplin a Minuteman chapter. Taplin, who once
dreamt of running for Congress, now would lead people, play the role of the
chapter's spokesman, appear on radio and television.

Minuteman chapters were forming in every region of the country by then  --  from
California to Connecticut, with many men like George Taplin eager to take the
helm. By November, Simcox had phoned Taplin to express delight with the new
chapter's effort. "I mean, it was Chris Simcox," Taplin says, sounding amazed.

IN HIS WHITE T-SHIRT AND BLACK LEATHER JACKET, Chris Simcox is dressed as the
Fonz might dress, if the Fonz were wearing a bulletproof vest under his T-shirt.
He stands on a sidewalk in his familiar pose. He's slightly hunched and furtive,
his eyes scanning the surroundings as he answers the questions of milling
strangers.

On this December morning, he has shown up to lead a protest at a day laborer
site at East Thomas Road and North 36th Street in Phoenix. It is an event that
was well-publicized in advance, which guaranteed that media, his admirers and
foes, including an ACLU monitoring team, would be flocking there. Among the
attendees are several Arizona television crews, a French documentary team and a
German reporter, all ready to report on any fracas and hoping to get a few
minutes with Simcox. Lean-faced with a salt-and-pepper beard and blue-gray eyes,
telegenic enough to be a regular on the conservative talk-show circuit, the
45-year-old Simcox has reached that level of quirky celebrity where gushing
strangers rush up and ask to have their picture taken with him.

His life changed forever last April, when he led, according to most estimates,
about 100 people at a time, some of whom stayed for as long as 30 days, in
taking up positions along a stretch of the U.S.-Mexico border, near Naco, Ariz.,
their mission to spot undocumented migrants and report them to the U.S. Border
Patrol. Many of the Latino day laborers who live in Herndon know Arizona well,
having crossed various parts of it. Simcox had come to regard the state in
general, and Naco in particular, as a sieve, and he was determined to stop
border crossers there.

Disproportionately middle-aged or elderly, his volunteers parked their vehicles
near stretches of barbed-wire fence and took up positions in lawn chairs, spaced
in groups at 300-yard intervals. President Bush has characterized groups like
the Minutemen as "vigilantes." The Border Patrol declared that the group's
activities were of no benefit to the Patrol's operations. Minutemen opponents,
including prominent Latino rights organizations, dispatched representatives to
the border to protest against Simcox's group.

By then, Simcox had begun traveling with a bodyguard and packing a gun,
explaining that he had been the target of anonymous death threats. He and his
followers had tapped into something raw and angry in like-minded American
psyches far from Arizona  --  never mind that Border Patrol spokesmen would
dryly comment later that most of the volunteers had not been back to the border
since. Invoking the specter of a national crisis imperiling U.S. security, Rep.
Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) praised the Minutemen. The issue of illegal immigration
was giving birth to political candidacies. In a six-candidate field vying for a
California congressional seat during a December special election, James
Gilchrist, a staunch ally of the Minutemen, finished third, with a respectable
25 percent of the vote. Simcox says assuredly, "We're the future when it comes
to immigration policy, and that's what scares the politicians."

Back in Phoenix, the cameras are ready, but antagonism and drama are in short
supply. Most of the day laborers, who had gathered near the normally busy hiring
site, hurried away upon seeing Simcox and the other Minutemen. That has left
only a dozen or so quiet workers and maybe twice as many Minutemen, as well as
some drive-by hecklers, who howl epithets in two languages. "You're a racist,"
an Anglo man shouts from a big Chevy, tacking on an obscenity and roaring away,
tires squealing, before Simcox can deliver his standard retort.

"I always tell those kind of people that my biracial son  --  half white and
half African American  --  wouldn't be pleased to hear that," he says.

"Are he and your wife here?" someone asks.

"I'm not with his mother now."

"Your son around?"

"No." His eyes scan the crowd. "He's with his mother . . . That's fine. A
custody thing. After our divorce."

She was his second wife; the divorce is a sore subject for him. Not much about
that period of his life, when he lived in Los Angeles, led to much personal
satisfaction. He dabbled at making it as an actor. He was a public elementary
school teacher, annoyed with, among other things, the many Spanish-speaking kids
who entered school not knowing English, he says.

He was in Los Angeles when the terrorists struck New York and Washington. In
late October of that year, Kim Dunbar, divorced by then from Simcox for six
years, went to court and asked for full custody of their then-teenage son. In
documents filed in Los Angeles County Superior Court, Dunbar charged that,
shortly after 9/11, Simcox left a series of troubling voice-mail messages in
which he predicted an imminent nuclear attack on Los Angeles, vowed to teach his
son to use a gun and announced his intention to leave Southern California in
order to protect the U.S. border with Mexico.

Simcox says he made those calls from Arizona, where he was vacationing near the
border and had seen numerous illegal aliens who had just made the crossing.
"After that I knew what I was going to do," he says. He would settle in the
legendary town of Tombstone, about 30 miles north of the border in eastern
Arizona. There, he washed dishes at a restaurant and briefly had a part-time
acting gig, playing a gunslinger in Wild West re-creations. He patrolled the
border at night, passing on information about illegal crossings to the Border
Patrol, which had deemed him too old when he tried to get a job there as an
agent. In May 2002, determined to find a medium for promoting his fight against
illegal immigration, he says, he used his retirement savings to buy the
Tombstone Tumbleweed, a weekly newspaper.

Articles in the Tumbleweed attracted supporters, and a movement was born.
"Things happened very quickly," he says. "I was doing patrols with people, and,
as word got out about [last April's] rally, we had a lot of people calling. I
think this cause was always just waiting to happen. People were quietly angry
but didn't know what to do. It just took a few people to say it needed to be
done."

The Minutemen say their members have reported more than 6,000 undocumented
migrants to the Border Patrol, which says it has no way of verifying that claim.
But even this figure, Simcox knows, amounts to a minuscule fraction of the 8,000
to 10,000 migrants a day estimated to be crossing illegally. "We need troops on
the border," Simcox declares. "Some people are afraid of having our Army there,
but that's what it's going to take . . . And if it takes building a wall, then
build that, too."

In 2004, Arizonians did erect a wall of sorts, passing into law Proposition 200,
which effectively prohibits the undocumented from receiving public benefits.

A car slows, and a young Latino man on the passenger's side shouts an obscenity
at Simcox.

"That didn't sound nice, did it?" he says, smiling tightly.

He reaches under his T-shirt for a moment, making some adjustment to the padding
beneath it. Simcox, who last year married for the third time, is concerned for
his safety these days. He frequently tells crowds that he has been struck by
rocks and shot at by people on the other side of the border. He smooths the
T-shirt, looking over his listeners' shoulders.

A question from a supporter brings him back to the point of his visit to this
street corner. "Yes, we're trying to bring attention to the business owners in
Phoenix who are fed up here with the crime being committed by the illegals, and
all the litter," he says.

In a sign that, at least in Arizona, the group's appeal has come to extend
beyond a core conservative constituency, a chiropractor named Melody Jafari is
waiting down the street for the Minutemen when they gather for a post-protest
debriefing in a parking lot. A self-described "apolitical moderate" careful not
to label herself a Minuteman, Jafari is nonetheless supportive of Simcox's
efforts, in part because her office parking lot is a gathering spot for day
laborers. "There are so many of them, and they are all over . . . and they are
hurting my business," she says. "I may not agree with them on everything, but
the Minutemen are the only ones who've stood up for people like me."

The morning ends with Simcox telling the Minutemen that they have sent a message
to day laborers in Phoenix and across the country that their criminality will
soon be halted. He shakes hands and leaves. Within an hour, a pack of day
laborers has gathered near and around 36th and Thomas. First haltingly, then
regaining its everyday momentum, the hiring resumes.

"See, they are already coming back," Jafari says.

"It's easy," says a day laborer named Francisco Hernandez, a Mexican national
who has been in this country for five months. "You just wait for the angry
people to go."

TAPLIN HAS REACHED THE CORNER OF ELDEN STREET and Alabama Drive, the site of the
Herndon 7-Eleven, where about 80 workers stand behind a blue line in the parking
lot. "We need to get going here," he says, turning to one of his crew. "Joe, you
ready?"

Joe runs a hand through his gray hair and takes a deep breath. "All set."

It is not clear what Joe is set for, because Joe won't say, leaving it to Taplin
to disclose any specifics. "It's on a need-to-know basis," says Joe, who won't
give his last name "because who knows who might get ahold of it. Nothing
personal. I didn't give my name out to a lot of people down at the [U.S.-Mexico]
border, either. They want to make a big deal about it if you carry a gun."

"Okay, Joe needs to get going," Taplin says.

Taplin and the rest of his crew take positions across the street and start
clicking photos of arriving contractors and the workers, who placidly stare
back. When the Minutemen first appeared here in October, many of the
undocumented workers assumed the worst: U.S. immigration agents in street
clothes had come to the hiring site to gather evidence and apprehend them. Some
workers bolted from the parking lot and didn't leave their apartments in search
of work for days, with a few of the most frightened fleeing Herndon altogether,
according to other workers. But the laborers' fears have receded. They've
learned that neither federal immigration officials nor town leaders have played
any part in what has been happening, that the strangers are simply local
residents with a beef against them, powerless to do anything more than protest.

Still, even as the leery day laborers trudge back to the 7-Eleven, they worry
that frightened businessmen will be reluctant to hire them. This is Taplin's
strategy: Photograph contractors who drive to the 7-Eleven to pick up day
laborers, and, when possible, follow a contractor and laborer to a work site.
Next, identify a contracting company and some of its clients, then crosscheck
the company's name on governmental Web sites to determine if the contractor is
licensed in Virginia and Herndon. If not, the contractor will be reported to
local authorities and, perhaps, to the IRS.

"Hold on for a second," Taplin says. He grabs his walkie-talkie and flicks a
button: "Check-check. Copy?"

No voice answers. Taplin inspects the walkie-talkie and flicks the button again.
"Check-check, check-check. Copy? Joe? Joe, you copy?"

"Yes," Joe says from a nearby street.

"Joe, there's a truck moving out of the 7-Eleven with an illegal. See it? See
the name on the side? I know that one. Definitely a repeat offender. Could you
follow where he's going with that laborer?"

"Hey, can we put on our KKK bedsheets now? Please? Please?" asks Bill Campenni,
the retired Air National Guard pilot who is now an engineering consultant.
Taplin winces slightly. While Taplin is a somber presence, Campenni is the
Herndon Minutemen's irrepressible jokester, a wise-

cracking 65-year-old counted on by the group for irreverence and levity that
Campenni himself knows sometimes crosses lines. Elfin-looking at 5-foot-5,
Campenni radiates whimsy, but, like Taplin's, his politics are seriously
conservative. Having gotten to know George W. Bush when they served in the same
squadron of the Texas Air National Guard in the early '70s, he publicly came to
the president's defense during the 2004 campaign, insisting that Bush had
faithfully fulfilled his Guard duties after critics called Bush's service into
question. Nowadays, in front of media, he relishes conjuring what he regards as
crude stereotypes of the Minutemen, partly because he wants to laugh and partly
because he wishes to send a signal to the media that he presumes their bias and
will be on the lookout for any journalistic wrongdoing. He turns to a reporter,
grinning. "Let us know whenever it's good for you, and I'll put on my sheet," he
says cheerfully. "Oh, here's an opening for your story: 'Behind the beautiful
homes, in the serenity of the beautiful town, the racists gathered.' "

Taplin clears his throat. "I wonder where Joe is," he says softly.

"I want to help you get whatever you need," Campenni says to the reporter. "Do
you want to see my big swastika T-shirt? Or my really big T-shirt with 'White
Power' on it?"

"William," his wife groans.

Taplin slices in. "The kind of T-shirts that we might actually want are 'Herndon
Power' T-shirts," he says, turning to the rest of the group. "And, while I'm
thinking of it, how would everybody feel about purchasing 'Herndon Minutemen'
caps?"

Taplin is looking at a white van pulling into the 7-Eleven parking lot. "Repeat
offender coming, repeat offender," he announces. "I need to get this guy's
picture." The van is swarmed by workers. The Latino driver holds up two fingers
and wags them. Taplin scuttles sideways down the sidewalk, focusing the lens of
his camera, clicking. "I think this is a painting company," he whispers, looking
through his viewfinder, clicking, clicking, clicking, clicking. "Smile big for
me, buddy. Oh, these are good ones."

The van picks up two workers, cruising right by Taplin. The driver abruptly
leans across the front seat, looks at Taplin and his camera, and raises his
middle finger. Laborers in the parking lot cackle and whistle.

"A few of them are starting to do things like that," Taplin says.

"It might be a bigger challenge with the new thing coming in," Campenni says.

Taplin grimaces. "The new thing coming in" is the official day laborer site at
the old Herndon police station, funded in its first year by a grant of about
$175,000 from Fairfax County. "The voters will punish the Town Council for
taking that money and for their appeasement," Taplin seethes, thinking ahead to
the elections in May. "Those who voted for it on council are politically
finished. They have no idea about our anger . . ."

His walkie-talkie squawks. "Got an incoming, hold on. This could be Joe, hold
on." He pushes a button, smiling. "Joe," he says. "How are you? Where are you?
You copy?"

"Copy?" Joe answers, sounding unsure. Is he having problems with his button?
"Copy, copy?"

"You sound close," Taplin says.

Joe says something muffled by the walkie-talkie's crackling.

"I didn't copy that, Joe. Repeat that."

Joe repeats it.

"You lost them?"

"Yes. They made a turn somewhere."

"Oh. Well, what's your 20?"

No answer.

"Joe, what's your 20?"

"Copy."

Taplin sighs. Okay, so not everyone evidently knows what a 20 is. "Joe, where
are you?"

"Near Pizza Hut."

"Okay, you might as well come back, Joe. Thanks for trying. 10-4."

"10-4, okay."

A repeat offender is out there, on the loose, Taplin says. "They're all over."
He shrugs, mumbles that Joe is coming back. "Okay, it doesn't always work," he
says.

But sometimes it does. Taplin's small surveillance unit has begun getting
results, successfully tracking contractors and their laborers to work sites in
and around Fairfax County. However, Taplin is uncertain whether the government
will do anything with the Minutemen's reports. All officials ever tell him is
that they are looking into his accusations.

On another morning, with their surveillance finished, Taplin and the crew head
over to the Amphora diner. Sitting near a window, Taplin has his cameras ready,
just in case. The group has just ordered something to eat, when a vehicle pulls
up to the diner and workers rush to the driver's side.

Taplin walks outside and clicks a few shots of the driver, an Anglo contractor
named George Griebel, who, furious, confronts Taplin in the restaurant. He
demands an explanation  --  and the film from the camera.

"You were hiring an illegal," Taplin says. "And I have the right to take your
picture."

Griebel says Taplin has no such right.

"Please go away," Taplin says, smiling, shaking his head.

Griebel curses Taplin and walks closer to him.

The restaurant manager calls the police. By the time they arrive, Griebel is
gone. "I know who these guys are, the Minutemen  --  whatever they call
themselves, right?" he says later. "But what was I doing? Who are these people?
I've lived in Herndon more than 20 years. I was there to pick up a guy who's
worked for me for three years, and he's a good worker, and he's not illegal, for
your information. What  --  I can't pick up a legal Hispanic guy anymore? I
think [the Minutemen] are trying to create a split in this country."

GEORGE TAPLIN GREW UP ON BUCOLIC SHELTER ISLAND, a summer resort for the
well-heeled, nestled between the north and south forks of Long Island. Taplin
remembers it as a place where change came gradually or not at all. He recalls
his family casually leaving the house unlocked and the key in the vehicle
ignition. "You felt safe," he recalls. "There was respect for the law. You could
go anywhere on the island during most of the year and see the same people and
know who you'd see."

His father was in the merchant marine for a while and labored as a carpenter,
but money was scarce. Taplin went to work early, according to his account  --
washing dishes, and stripping and waxing floors, at age 12, in a Catholic
monastery. The boy rankled under the suspicion that some people on Shelter
Island looked down on the Taplins. "I had to buy my own clothes, so I could
forget about any chance for saving money for college," he says.

He mowed lawns, went out on commercial fishing boats and cleaned scallops. It
was the start of years of tough work that, as he recalls, included digging
graves and cesspools. He remembers nothing more keenly about his youth than
being cold. He slept upstairs in the family's old house, whose lone source of
heat came from a furnace sitting on a dirt-floor basement. "We'd go to bed, and
it'd be 20 degrees up there; you'd be shivering," he remembers. "I only mention
it because when somebody says, 'You don't know what it's like to be one of those
people, to have to go through what the day laborers do,' the fact is I do. I
know what it's like to go to bed hungry and to be freezing . . . I also know
what it's like when people don't treat you with respect because you're poor . .
. But being poor is no excuse."

After high school, Taplin joined the Navy and eventually took college courses
while at sea, obtaining bachelor's and master's degrees in the computer field
while rising to the rank of chief petty officer.

He was also intensely interested in politics. But he encountered a flaw in
himself: He had problems getting along with colleagues. "I was a quick study
when it came to everything except people," he says. "I didn't suffer fools
gladly. My last [commanding officer] said to me: 'If you weren't so good at
[your job], you wouldn't get anywhere, because your people skills suck.' "
Self-examination led Taplin to ratchet down his ambitions: He decided that
running for office "probably wasn't a realistic goal."

He later found jobs in technology and contracting, but he was frustrated by his
lack of advancement. "I was working at a job, and a promotion was coming up, and
I was the most qualified, head and shoulders above everybody else," he recounts.
"One woman was chosen because she was black and female. It was a female-heavy
group."

In 1998, he and his wife moved to Herndon, her hometown, and settled in with
their baby daughter. His life was private and quiet, until the day he heard the
story about a drunken Latino man who had allegedly talked to the schoolchildren
at the bus stop.

By then, the day laborers and their presence at the 7-Eleven also irked him.
"The town's policy was to appease some people and ignore the rest of us," he
says. Disturbed by reports that Herndon's mayor, Michael O'Reilly, was pushing
plans for the creation of the formal day laborer work site, Taplin organized a
meeting of neighbors last July. For the first time in his life he was occupying
the spotlight.

His crusade was in motion.

IN MID-DECEMBER, ON THE SAME MORNING the Herndon ordinance effectively banning
the solicitation of work at the 7-Eleven becomes operative, the town's new
formal hiring site opens in the large parking lot of a building that once housed
the police department. Town officials  --  as well as Project Hope and Harmony,
the nonprofit group that received the grant from Fairfax County to manage the
day laborer site  --  have forbidden Taplin and his comrades to set foot in the
parking lot.

Already irritated, Taplin fumes when told that he cannot stand on a newly
constructed sidewalk used by laborers to walk onto the site. Town officials
pledged, he reminds his friends, that not a dime of Herndon money would be spent
on the site. Herndon has already spent about $12,000 for a fence meant to
discourage workers from taking shortcuts through subdivisions, he points out.
Now what was a sidewalk doing here?

Taplin oscillates between courtesy toward and disdain for the workers who stroll
by. Sometimes he tells his fellow Minutemen to step aside so that the laborers,
walking alone or in pairs, can get by. He turns toward the workers, calling out
amiably, "Buenos dias, buenos dias, buenos dias."

"Good morning," one worker answers in English, glancing at Taplin in unsmiling
reproach.

His name is Mario Rodriguez, and he has come from El Salvador. "He [Taplin]
pretends he is being polite, but what he wants to do is ruin our chances here,"
Rodriguez says in Spanish, away from Taplin. "But there are more of us than
there are of him and the Minutemen."

Taplin has already moved on, standing in a long line for coffee behind a file of
workers. When he returns, he has another thought for his colleagues. "You know
something else: When they hire these guys they also have to hire a
Spanish-speaking foreman," he says. "Because most of these guys can't speak a
word of English. I'm standing in line there, and if you talk to them, all you
get is, '¿Que? ¿Que? ¿Que? ' "

He is a party now to a lawsuit trying to shut down the day laborer center. He
will be throwing his support behind like-minded candidates in the May town
elections. He has already considered what he will do if the Minutemen lose their
battle in Herndon. "I'll get out of Dodge if that happens," he says. "My wife
and I would leave Herndon as soon as our daughter graduates from eighth grade."

Meanwhile, it infuriates him that local politicians refuse to admit that the
presence of undocumented day laborers has created slums in Herndon, ushering in
squalor, crime, danger. Take a ride down Alabama Drive, near the former day
laborer site, he says. "Nobody in Herndon will walk around those apartments at
night; they're afraid . . . Here's a question: Would [people] walk over to that
public park behind [the apartments] where all the drug deals go on at night?
Would they let their daughter walk over there at night alone?"

Town authorities deny the park is crime-infested or riddled with drug sales, he
knows. But he's convinced it's political denial.

Are you saying that undocumented Latino day laborers are involved in drug deals
in the park? he is asked.

"Oh, I didn't say it was," he replies. "I just said, Are you, would you allow --
" He pauses in mid-sentence.

There could be Anglos in the park, too, right? he is asked.

"Oh, no," he answers. "I can tell you that. Because no Anglos will go to that
park."

So, who is selling drugs there?

"It's part of the Hispanic community. It's probably gang-related. MS-13."

Are day laborers selling drugs in the park?

"I didn't say they were."

ON AS MANY DAYS AS NOT IN DECEMBER, the contractors and townspeople come to the
workers center in a disappointing trickle. The first question that many
potential employers pose, looking at the contingent of roughly 100 Latino
laborers, is whether the workers are "legal."

"We don't ask about that, sir," Esther Johnson, a Hope and Harmony volunteer,
answers one morning.

"So, if I decide to hire somebody, are some of these guys illegal?" another
potential employer asks. "Can I get in trouble?"

"We don't know that anyone is here illegally, sir," Johnson answers.

"You don't ask about it?"

A pause. "That's correct, sir."

There is often this elaborate dance before a potential employer even begins
filling out a form. The official position of Hope and Harmony is that it never
has to lie about the status of an individual worker, because the organization
never asks about status. That is the only way to legally sustain a day laborer
site in 2006, a reflection of the entire immigration system's loopholes and
brokenness.

A man named Brett Nunn, whose business this morning involves painting and
cleaning up a rental property, pulls up and, gesturing at the workers, asks,
"Are they inoculated?"

Johnson hands him a form.

"What's this?" Nunn asks.

"Well, sir, it's a form we ask everyone to fill out, if you don't mind."

Among other things, the form relieves Hope and Harmony of liability in the event
an employer hires someone undocumented, placing the responsibility upon the
employer.

"I gotta sign this?" Nunn asks. It is at this point in the process that a few
contractors drive off. But Nunn needs somebody. "I really gotta sign this?" he
asks again. He signs with a sigh.

Bill Threlkeld, a former Peace Corps volunteer who runs the day laborer center
for Project Hope and Harmony, can't conceal his concern that his mission will
fail if the hiring rates do not substantially improve in the next couple of
months. Hiring rates have averaged only about 15 percent since the official site
opened  --  which means that more than 80 men generally go home each day without
getting jobs. He knows that a few workers have already drifted out to freelance,
in violation of the new ordinance. If enough workers abandon the site, the Hope
and Harmony effort will be deemed a failure. The workers will return to
wandering through the town in search of work; and Taplin and his cohorts will
have acquired new political ammunition.

Threlkeld does not speak much with Taplin, other than to issue soft-spoken
reminders that the Minutemen need to keep their distance. But, as with difficult
neighbors whose faces have become part of the environs, they have come to look
for each other. "Where is he?" Threlkeld asks one day. A Project Hope and
Harmony volunteer points. Taplin is poised on a grassy berm about 40 feet away,
partially concealed by a tall bush, peeping around it and raising his camera.

While Threlkeld dismisses the notion that the Minutemen's presence has reduced
hiring at the center, some anxious workers believe they can feel the impact.
Mario Martinez has worked only a couple of days over the last three weeks. "It's
not all because the Minutemen come here," he says through a translator. "But
some of it is employers that don't want to come because they don't want the
Minutemen to photograph them . . . And now there are all those [forms] to fill
out. Some of the employers don't want to do it; maybe they think it was easier
for them at the 7-Eleven."

THE STORIES OF HOW MARIO MARTINEZ and many of his friends sneaked into the
United States have this detail in common: The men crossed from Mexico into
Arizona. Of the 20 sectors the Border Patrol presides over, on the northern and
southern borders, the busiest is its Tucson sector, which extends 262 miles from
the New Mexico-Arizona border west to Yuma County, Ariz. In fiscal year 2005,
according to Border Patrol statistics, the Patrol made 1.17 million arrests of
illegal aliens nationally, and the Tucson sector accounted for about 438,000
arrests, more than any other sector.

Being the most active sector also means being beleaguered. Assaults on Border
Patrol agents are way up in the Tucson sector, as they are nationally. And not
even Border Patrol officials contend that the agency has come close to stemming
the flow of illegal migration into the sector. To catch the most means to miss
the most, too. "We don't have operational control there yet," says Salvador
Zamora, an assistant chief for the Border Patrol.

Immigration research groups often place the number of illegal border crossers at
about 3 million a year, which translates to about three successful crossings for
every apprehension. "There's no way for us to count," Zamora says, "though we're
not disputing anything. We just know that we have too many people coming in. But
we believe we're making progress, and we're anxious to show people that
progress."

Still, there are some Border Patrol agents who believe the Patrol is
undermanned, that its national pool of about 11,000 agents needs to be
substantially increased. Many agents, even those who disagree with the
Minutemen's approach, credit the group with helping to revive the discussion
about border security. But Border Patrol officials are routinely dismissive of
the Minutemen's impact. "The Minutemen have driven a successful marketing
campaign, but nothing much more, because real law enforcement means being on the
border for more than 30 days in chairs," says Zamora.

A lack of manpower isn't all that is hindering the Border Patrol, Zamora says.
"Right now, 50 percent of the country on one side of the issue wants us doing
more, and 50 percent of the country on the other side wants something different.
People have to make up their minds what they want."

In the meantime, a savvy migrant understands that, with persistence, he will
likely make it into the United States. One afternoon, Border Patrol agents
apprehend 21 illegal aliens in the desert and order them to sit. One young man
leans back in the dirt, smiling affably at the agents. His name is Javier Angel
Hernandez and, at 21, he already has lived twice in the States. He says that,
after crossing the border the first time, he worked for about a year in Willcox,
Ariz., picking cherry tomatoes, until he was caught in a 2003 sweep by the
Border Patrol and sent back to Mexico. He was arrested and expelled again in
2004, after he sneaked over the border to work for the same company.

"Why did you go back to Willcox after being picked up there the first time?"
Zamora asks him.

"Because I liked it, and it was closer to Mexico," Hernandez answers in Spanish.
"It paid good. $600 a week, no taxes, eight hours a day. I just paid somebody
$10 to cash my check."

"Why did you try to cross this time?" Zamora asks.

"I had no choice," Hernandez says, explaining that he had been cultivating and
harvesting coffee beans near his home in Chiapas when torrential rains and
mudslides ruined crops there and ended his work. He headed north, happily. "You
get paid a lot more here," he says. "I like Willcox. That is where I want to
go."

Zamora motions for him to get into the van. Hernandez will be driven to Nogales,
where he will be processed and then escorted to the border, from where he will
make a short walk back into Mexico. Once across, Hernandez will be free to
contemplate his next move while standing about 200 yards from the United States.
If he is like many of the apprehended, he will make another attempt to cross the
border in the next day or two, if not that very night. The young man is coy
about it before getting into the van. But, as Zamora turns away for a moment to
deal with someone else, Hernandez grins and says, "Si, si, Willcox, mañana."

Willcox, tomorrow.

Ephraim Cruz, a Border Patrol agent on indefinite suspension and under
indictment for allegedly driving the Mexican girlfriend of a fellow agent across
the border into the United States, has his own perspective on America's
ambivalence about illegal immigrants. "Everyone knows here [in Douglas, Ariz.]
who builds the homes of the top people in Border Patrol," he says. "Illegal
aliens do. Everyone knows who serves them in the local restaurants where they
eat. Everyone knows who picks the tomatoes they buy . . . Everyone knows that
there are several agents who have relationships with Mexican women . . . But
then there are other [instances] when no one other than the woman and maybe the
agent knows the truth  --  where the woman by all appearances looks like she is
an American citizen because she is embedded in the social fabric of a town on
the American side of the border. Her kids go to public schools here. She and her
kids are in public housing here. She has a membership at a local gym."

Awaiting trial in federal court on a charge of smuggling an illegal alien, he
maintains his innocence and says that he had no knowledge that the woman was
illegal. Cruz views the indictment as retaliation after he charged that the
Border Patrol had neglected and abused migrant detainees. He sees hypocrisy in
immigration law wherever he turns. If nothing else, he shares one thing with the
Minutemen: a loathing for big business's labor practices. "We [arrest] migrants
because they are the easiest to get," he says. "But it is the big employers who
hire them who are creating the pull for their labor. Where is the justice in
letting them get off if migrants suffer? . . . You know why the Minutemen can't
win this thing? It's simple: There are many more employers who use migrants than
there are Minutemen who don't."

AFTER THE NEW YEAR, George Taplin has his moments of exhilaration, but he also
experiences small indignities. One morning, he steps out his front door to
discover spray-painted messages on the sidewalk: "NO PERSON IS ILLEGAL." And
"LOVE HAS NO BORDERS."

A couple of weeks later, on a cold weeknight in February, he is being heralded
for his Minuteman leadership. In a half-filled Herndon Middle School auditorium,
a security team uses a detector to check invited guests for weapons at the door.
Chris Simcox, wearing his black leather jacket and white T-shirt with the
padding beneath it, has come to Herndon to present Taplin with the Minutemen's
Eagle Award.

The award, Simcox says, recognizes Taplin's "outstanding contribution toward
saving the republic." To cheers, Simcox forecasts victory in Herndon and
everywhere else the Minutemen have engaged their foes. A slate of speakers from
across the country have come to provide inspiration. One man, taking note of a
group of protesters on the school grounds, shouts into the microphone: "The
people outside have a different set of values: They want to rape America of her
bounty."

The audience gives him a long ovation. Taplin proclaims to the crowd, "What a
patriot."

Afterward, Taplin shakes hands and poses for pictures, holding his trophy. He
has a new sense, he says, that the battle will never end, that "these people"
are "all over the place out there." He will never quit, he says.

But, at that hour, resolve can be found on both sides of Herndon's streets. A
few minutes later and a few blocks distant, three Latino workers in
paint-splattered windbreakers stand quietly near a Starbucks, blowing on their
hands, waiting. A van with a ladder pulls into the parking space closest to
them, and an Asian man gets out, grins and approaches.

"Hola," one of the men says, clasping the Asian man's hand. The handshake seals
a deal.

"Gracias," the Asian man says.

He will see them in the morning. There is work to do.

Michael Leahy is a Magazine staff writer. He will be fielding questions and
comments about this article Monday at 1 p.m. at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              87 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 24, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A20

LENGTH: 504 words


MILWAUKEE  --  Thousands of people filled the streets Thursday for what was
billed as "A Day Without Latinos" to protest efforts in Congress to target
illegal immigrants.

Police estimated that more than 10,000 people joined the demonstrations and the
march to downtown Milwaukee. Organizers said there were 30,000.

"We came to work, not to be discriminated against," said Juan Hernandez, who
said his boss gave him and more than a dozen other restaurant workers permission
to join the protest. "We want to be equal."

About 90 Latino-owned businesses were closed for all or part of the day in
support, according to Voces de la Frontera, the rally's organizer.

About a dozen businesses in Racine and Kenosha also closed as several hundred
people protested in Racine.

The protesters oppose a bill passed by the U.S. House in December that would
make it a felony for a person to be in the United States illegally.

The measure would also impose new penalties on employers who hire illegal
immigrants and would order the construction of fences along a third of the U.S.
border with Mexico.

*  CHICAGO  --  The jury in former Illinois governor George H. Ryan's
racketeering and fraud trial recessed early for the weekend with the judge
saying that "a personal matter" involving one of the jurors will be
investigated. U.S. District Judge Rebecca R. Pallmeyer gave no details, other
than that it was not related to her announcement Wednesday that jurors had
described problems blocking negotiations. The jurors were told to return Monday
morning.

*  NEW YORK  --  Bouncer Darryl Littlejohn pleaded not guilty to the gruesome
rape and murder of  former George Washington University student  Imette St.
Guillen in a "CSI"-style case built on such forensic evidence as blood, rabbit
fur, rug fibers and cellphone records.

*  GARY, Ind.  --  Mayor Scott L. King resigned after 11 years in office, saying
he is returning to the private sector to earn more money for his children's
college bills. King, who in 1995 became the first white mayor in 28 years in the
predominantly black city of 100,000, easily won reelection twice. His
resignation becomes effective Friday. Dozier Allen Jr. becomes acting mayor.

*  TOPEKA, Kan.  --  The state House overrode the veto of a concealed-weapons
bill by Gov. Kathleen Sebelius (D), allowing it to become law July 1. The
Republican-controlled House voted 91 to 33 to enact the law, which Sebelius said
would make Kansas businesses less safe and hinder crime-prevention efforts. The
Senate voted 30 to 10 for the override.

*  BUFFALO  --  The government does not have to tell three men accused of
illegally sending $3.5 million to Yemen whether secret wiretaps were used to
investigate them, a judge has ruled. U.S. District Judge William M. Skretny
denied the defense request Tuesday.

*  TALLAHASSEE  --  The Florida House passed a bill that would make the state
the first to require high school students to declare a major, just as college
students must do.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              88 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Students Leave Classes to Protest Immigration Bills

BYLINE: Ian Shapira, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 388 words


About 250 Northern Virginia high schoolers demonstrated yesterday against
congressional legislation aimed at curbing illegal immigration.

About 150 mostly Hispanic students gathered outside Freedom High School in
Woodbridge waving signs and shouting. School officials said about 100 Annandale
High School students protested outside that school for about 45 minutes starting
at noon.

A group of eight middle schoolers from Edgar Allen Poe in Annandale also walked
out of class in protest. They returned shortly after a discussion with the
principal, school officials said.

Holding posters that read in Spanish "We want rights" and waving Salvadoran and
Mexican flags, Freedom students and some from other high schools in Prince
William County demonstrated peacefully outside the school from about 8:30 a.m.
to 1:30 p.m. while police and school administrators observed.

There were no arrests.

Students said they organized the protest by posting bulletins on the Web site
MySpace.com.

"Let's see [what would happen] if Hispanics stop working for a day!" yelled
Anthony Lemus, 16, a Freedom student.

"We'd have the crash of 1929," Yesenia Rivas, 15, shot back.

School officials who were watching the demonstration praised the students for
being so orderly. "This is tremendously important to them. Everybody here knows
or is related to an illegal immigrant," said Rae Darlington, associate
superintendent of Prince William's school system.

Freedom's principal, Dorothy McCabe, said: "I'm so proud of them. They have a
cause and know their rights."

No special punishments will be meted out for cutting class, McCabe said.
Students who participated will receive warnings, detention or suspension,
depending on their behavior record.

School administrators said they have organized a meeting today for the students
with Carlos A. Castro, a local businessman and founder of Todos Supermarkets.
Castro is expected to discuss with the students their civil rights and the bills
before Congress.

Low-key local protests were in contrast with those in Los Angeles, where
hundreds of mostly Latino students blocked two freeways, chanting in Spanish and
waving flags from Mexico and El Salvador, Reuters reported. Traffic was snarled
until police could move the students off the road, but no accidents, injuries or
arrests were reported.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              89 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Students Leave Class to Protest Immigration Bills in Congress

BYLINE: Ian Shapira, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 393 words


About 250 Northern Virginia high schoolers demonstrated yesterday against
congressional legislation aimed at curbing illegal immigration.

About 150 mostly Hispanic students gathered outside Freedom High School in
Woodbridge waving signs and shouting. School officials said about 100 Annandale
High School students protested outside that school for about 45 minutes starting
at noon.

A group of eight middle schoolers from Edgar Allen Poe in Annandale also walked
out of class in protest. They returned shortly after a discussion with the
principal, school officials said.

Holding posters that read in Spanish "We want rights" and waving Salvadoran and
Mexican flags, Freedom students and some from other high schools in Prince
William County demonstrated peacefully outside the school from about 8:30 a.m.
to 1:30 p.m. while police and school administrators observed.

There were no arrests.

Students said they organized the protest by posting bulletins on the Web site
MySpace.com.

"Let's see [what would happen] if Hispanics stop working for a day!" yelled
Anthony Lemus, 16, a Freedom student.

"We'd have the crash of 1929," Yesenia Rivas, 15, shot back.

School officials who were watching the demonstration praised the students for
being so orderly. "This is tremendously important to them. Everybody here knows
or is related to an illegal immigrant," said Rae Darlington, associate
superintendent of Prince William's school system.

Freedom's principal, Dorothy McCabe, said: "I'm so proud of them. They have a
cause and know their rights."

No special punishments will be meted out for cutting class, McCabe said.
Students who participated will receive warnings, detention or suspension,
depending on their behavior record.

School administrators said they have organized a meeting today for the students
with Carlos A. Castro, a local businessman and founder of Todos Supermarkets.
Castro is expected to discuss with the students their civil rights and the bills
before Congress.

Low-key local protests were in contrast with those yesterday in Los Angeles,
where hundreds of mostly Latino students blocked two major downtown freeways,
chanting in Spanish and waving flags from Mexico and El Salvador, Reuters
reported. Traffic was snarled until police could move the students off the road,
but no accidents, injuries or arrests were reported.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              90 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Decency to 'Those People'

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 782 words


Half a million people poured into the streets of Los Angeles on Saturday to
protest the various Republican-sponsored proposals in Congress that would
demonize illegal immigrants. Hundreds marched yesterday in Detroit, which, last
I checked, is nowhere near the Mexican border. Tens of thousands have
demonstrated in Phoenix, Denver and other cities across the country. In every
case, the crowds were mostly Latino.

We all know that Latinos are the nation's largest minority and that most of the
people in those demonstrations either were born in the United States or are here
legally. But we also know that at least some of those protesters had gone
through the experience of crossing the border illegally under the tutelage of
avaricious people-smugglers known as "coyotes." At least some had been here for
months or years, working to send money home to their families, keeping their
heads down, somehow managing to carve out lives for themselves and their
children.

Who are they? After the demonstrations were over, where did they go? Are they so
diabolically clever at hiding in plain sight? Or is it that the rest of us
refuse to see them, because by seeing them we would have to acknowledge their
humanity?

That willful blindness is why the debate on illegal immigration is so
hypocritical. If we lump undocumented immigrants into an undifferentiated mass
of Those People, we can avoid really looking at the immigrant experience. And we
can convince ourselves that it is somehow different from the periodic waves of
immigration that have shaped this nation  --  that suddenly it is not an issue,
or even a problem, but an urgent crisis.

There are an estimated 12 million immigrants in the United States illegally.
That many people don't just fade into the woodwork. The fact is, we see
undocumented immigrants every day.

Maybe they vacuum your office at night. Maybe they landscape your garden or
clean your house or cook the food at your favorite restaurant. You probably
don't know where they live. You probably don't know their children's names or
where they go to school. You probably don't know what it was like for them to
buy a car or even get a driver's license. You probably don't know where they get
medical care.

If you did know these things about individual immigrants, whether they're from
Mexico or El Salvador or China or Brazil, I think you would find the debate in
Congress almost grotesque.

Should we declare that they are all criminals? Should we make criminals of the
people who give them jobs, too? Should we build a Berlin Wall along the border?
It's possible to take such draconian measures against Those People  --  but not
against lovely Marta, who waxes your floors, or genial Juan, who tends your
azaleas. So to side with the xenophobes, you have to know as little about Marta
and Juan as possible.

In terms of realpolitik, the immigration issue is easy: If the Republican
leadership in Congress wants to alienate Latino voters and drive them into the
embrace of the Democratic Party, it's tempting to let them do it. But that means
ignoring the reality that we're talking about individuals, not Those People. And
it means abandoning the process of inflow, adaptation and renewal that has made
this nation of immigrants so dynamic and resourceful.

I don't get many chances to say that George W. Bush is right, but I think he
really understands the immigration issue on both the political and the personal
level. His guest-worker program is a mess. Does he really expect millions of
people to report for deportation? Won't employers have an incentive to exploit
the guest workers when they know they will never have citizenship, and therefore
will never have any political clout? But I do give the president credit for
seeking a compromise that will quiet the nativists in his party and maybe buy
some time for cooler heads to prevail.

Much better is the proposal by Sens. John McCain and Edward Kennedy that would
declare what amounts to an amnesty for undocumented immigrants. They would both
take issue with that characterization, because "amnesty" is a forbidden word,
but that's what it would be  --  "illegals" who reported to authorities would be
able to stay in the country and eventually begin the process of seeking
citizenship. It seems unlikely, though, that this reasonable plan will fly.

Whatever Congress does, 12 million people aren't going to pack up and go home
overnight. They are here  --  Marta and Juan, not Those People. We see them
every day. Let's deal with them as fellow human beings.

The writer will take questions today at 1 p.m. on www.washingtonpost.com. His
e-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              91 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The Great Senate Immigr'A'tion Debate

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A Section; A02 , WASHINGTON SKETCH Dana Milbank

LENGTH: 905 words


It was all fire and brimstone as House Republicans gathered yesterday in the
Capitol basement to denounce their Senate counterparts for proposing to legalize
illegal immigrants.

Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), behind a pulpit adorned with a "Just Say No to
Amnesty" sign, thundered: "Anybody that votes for an amnesty bill deserves to be
branded with a scarlet letter, 'A' for amnesty, and they need to pay for it at
the ballot box in November."

Stand down, Hester Prynne. Adultery is so 17th-century.

At the precise moment the House GOP was turning all puritanical, Sen. Arlen
Specter (R-Pa.), author of the Senate legislation, was in the television studio
announcing that he would not wear the "A" for amnesty. "There is an effort far
and wide to try to degrade the committee bill by the smear of amnesty, and it
simply is not amnesty," he said  --  repeating his denial four times in a
minute.

The world's greatest deliberative body is at it again. The Senate has begun a
momentous debate about securing the nation's borders, and what to do about the
millions of illegal immigrants already here. So far, however, the lawmakers have
not advanced much beyond a linguistic debate about the meaning of the A-word.

"I believe we have a bill which is not justifiably categorized as amnesty,"
Specter announced.

Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) countered that the Senate bill is "what
most Americans will see as amnesty."

"It is not amnesty," Specter rebutted. "This word 'amnesty' is a code word. It
is a code word to try to smear good-faith legislation."

Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), the chamber's lone immigrant, said the "loudest
voices" should not "make a definition of what amnesty is and what amnesty should
be."

The loud-voiced Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) was unmoved. "In every sense of what
people mean by amnesty, it's amnesty," he said. "If it's not amnesty, it's the
same thing as amnesty. That's just what it is." The Alabama lexicographer
brandished the scarlet letter a half-dozen times more. "By any standard
definition of the word 'amnesty,' this bill has it," Sessions maintained. "I
know that's a loaded word, and I don't want to be playing around demagogically
with the word 'amnesty.' "

One man's amnesty, of course, is another man's "earned citizenship," as Sen.
Patty Murray (D-Wash.) put it yesterday. The legislation, for the record, would
pardon immigrants' illegal entry if they pay a fine and back taxes, go through a
background investigation and learn English.

But the use of the word "amnesty"  --  more than 50 times on the Senate floor
yesterday  --  says much about the immigration debate. Proponents of the
"guest-worker" path toward legalization appear to have gained the upper hand;
Specter seems to have the votes in the Senate, and House Speaker J. Dennis
Hastert (R-Ill.) is rethinking his chamber's hostility to a guest-worker plan.
Opponents, therefore, need to escalate the rhetoric and invoke the A-word.

Democrats, who favor the guest-worker plan, called in a polling firm, Lake
Research Partners, to provide talking points to counter the amnesty charge.
"Lead with an enforcement message," the firm advised, and propose "reasonable
solutions" that are also "tough and fair." Lake continued: "Immigrants have to
pay taxes . . . and be learning English."

Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) hit all the points: "We need tough
and smart enforcement at the border and throughout the country. We need
realistic immigration laws that bring immigrants out of the shadows, paying
taxes, learning English and contributing to our communities."

Other senators sampled their own buzzwords to counter the dreaded amnesty
allegation: "We are a nation of immigrants" and "Bring people out of the
shadows."

But these soft and gauzy slogans were no match for the anti-amnesty crowd of
House Republicans, who stood in front of a banner with the word AMNESTY in
18-inch letters and a slash through it.

"It would be like a dinner bell" to immigrants, pronounced Bob Beauprez
(R-Colo.). "If you are here illegally and want to fly the Mexican flag, go to
Mexico," proposed Virgil H. Goode Jr. (R-Va.). "I say let the prisoners pick the
fruits," said Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), adding, "I would hope that the
American people are smart enough to smell the foul odor that's coming out of the
United States Senate." Asked if President Bush, who supports a guest-worker
plan, has a similar stench, Rohrabacher replied: "No comment."

But King topped them all, asserting that a "ruling class" of Americans have
"made enough money by hiring cheap illegal labor that they think they also have
some kind of a right to cheap servants to manicure their nails and their lawn."

Over in the Senate, the linguistic dispute continued to rage. "Tantamount to an
amnesty program," judged David Vitter (R-La.). "It is not amnesty," said Dianne
Feinstein (D-Calif.). "Some people might perceive that what is granted is an
amnesty," posited John Cornyn (R-Tex.). "This does not sound like amnesty to
me," chimed in Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.).

Only Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) retained his composure. "I think that's a straw
dog, to be very honest with you, this argument of amnesty," he observed. "The
debate is misfocused in some ways when the word 'amnesty' becomes the hot
button, nomenclature versus the more substantive question."

Another remark like that, and Gregg will be wearing the scarlet letter.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              92 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Tuning In to Anger on Immigration;
Rep. Tancredo's Profile Grows With Push to Secure U.S. Borders

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and T.R. Reid, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1408 words


The first time Rep. Tom Tancredo got really angry about immigration, the year
was 1975, and he was a junior high school social studies teacher in Denver. The
state had recently passed the nation's first bilingual education law, and
Hispanic kids were taken from his class to study in Spanish.

That idea made zero sense to Tancredo, the grandson of Italian immigrants. He
believed that newcomers should be assimilated into the country, as they had been
for generations. The image of America as a beacon for people from all over the
world uniting under one flag and one language was threatened, he contended, if
the country started adapting to immigrants, instead of the other way around.

A year later, Tancredo launched a political career animated by his obsession to
stem the tide of immigration from Mexico and Central America that he feared
would change the character and security of the country. Today, the four-term
Republican House member stands at the center of a national debate over how best
to deal with the nearly 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States.
Tancredo helped the House pass a bill in December that would impose criminal
sanctions on illegal immigrants and those who employ them and that would erect a
wall along 700 miles of the  U.S.-Mexican  border to keep others out.

That legislation has triggered massive protests throughout the country and
prompted a Senate committee this week to pass an alternative measure with a
guest-worker program that would help many illegal immigrants eventually win
permanent residency or even U.S. citizenship.

Tancredo, 60, has so effectively tapped into the anger of millions of Americans
who favor a crackdown on illegal immigrants and tougher measures at the border
that the back-bench Republican is considering making a bid for president in two
years. But in Washington, he is viewed warily by Democrats, the White House and
even some of his Republican colleagues as a loose cannon or even a zealot.

After Tancredo suggested in 2002 that President Bush's views on immigration
amounted to a national security threat, White House political adviser Karl Rove
told him, "Don't ever darken the door of the White House"  --  although Tancredo
later was invited to the White House for a bill signing.

Democrats have criticized him for stoking anti-immigration sentiment, although
some see his tactics as helping them by driving Hispanic American voters in
Florida, California and other states away from the Republican Party. "I'm all
for more and more nuts in their party speaking up," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel
(D-Ill.), who chairs the House Democrats' congressional campaign committee. "I
want more of those guys."

Tancredo shrugs off the criticism. "It's not a secret that I have burned a lot
of bridges here," he said in an interview this week. "My ability to get anything
done around here is based around my ability to make this into a national issue.
My megaphone is pointed at the ear of America."

A ubiquitous presence on the airwaves, Tancredo has appeared more than 1,000
times on radio talk shows in recent years and has become a television news
mainstay. He has traveled widely around the country, including the early
presidential caucus and primary states of Iowa and New Hampshire. His office
averaged 4,566 pieces of mail per month during the first quarter of this year.
When Tancredo was scheduled as a guest on ABC's "This Week" last Sunday, he
received 300 "good luck" e-mail messages before his appearance and 700 "good
job" e-mails after the show.

The relentless media exposure, along with polls indicating that many Americans
support a border crackdown and the deportation of illegal immigrants, has given
Tancredo considerable influence over the immigration legislation now unfolding
in Congress. "He's a force because he represents what a lot of people think,"
said Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors less
immigration. "He's only a gadfly in Washington."

For many frustrated, scared and angry suburbanites and small-town residents,
Tancredo is a hero, one of the very few Washington politicians who take their
fears seriously. They believe undocumented, mostly Hispanic workers are taking
jobs that ought to go to citizens, flooding schools and boosting the crime rate,
and that the country's open borders pose a security threat.

"My parents were immigrants," says Mark Solinsky, an independent voter from the
sprawling Denver suburb of Highlands Ranch, a part of Tancredo's suburban
Colorado district. "Came from Poland. In the '20s. But I think now, this new
wave of immigration poses a problem. We've got to have tougher laws. And, you
know, that's what Tancredo always talks about. So I would say, yeah, he's right
on that. We need some leadership on that."

Republican Ed Clousing, of Littleton, a suburb at the foot of the Rockies, said:
"I am so mad at our government. And I know Tom Tancredo is mad, too. Because
there's nobody up there trying to protect what's right about our country."

Tancredo's congressional district includes suburb after suburb, an expanse of
new homes, schools, shopping malls and golf courses spreading across the high
plains south and west of Denver. The district is about 88 percent white, and the
residents are prosperous, with a median income ($74,000) almost twice the
national average. The share of Hispanic residents, 6 percent, is the lowest of
any Colorado district.

Tancredo, a self-described religious right Republican, grew up on the north side
of Denver, taught in junior high school, and was elected to the state House in
1976 at the age of 30. He was part of a group called "the crazies," who
advocated the elimination of the sales tax on food and utilities, and was a
critic of public education.

But immigration has always been his chief preoccupation, and he made a name for
himself after winning election to Congress. Tancredo strongly opposes any
programs to accommodate illegal workers already living in the country and, after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, he supported the most stringent possible
border enforcements.

Tancredo helped to shape a House bill, approved in December, that would impose
stiff penalties on employers who hire illegal workers and would require
businesses to eventually run the names of every employee through a national
database to confirm their legality. The bill would end the "catch and release"
policy for immigrants other than Mexicans who are caught sneaking into the
country. Five double-layer border fences would be built in California and
Arizona, stretching 698 miles at a total cost of more than $2.2 billion.

The House proposal has sparked huge protests in Phoenix, Detroit, Los Angeles
and elsewhere. The Senate is now debating legislation that would take a more
permissive and forgiving approach, by creating a guest-worker program and
issuing more visas for professionals.

Tancredo is particularly riled at the business community, which he says has
become "addicted to cheap labor." Employers are a driving force behind the
guest-worker program and other Senate provisions that amount to "nearly
universal amnesty" for the 12 million people currently living in the United
States illegally, Tancredo says. He routinely chides Bush, Sen. John McCain
(R-Ariz.) and other GOP colleagues for bowing to corporate pressure, despite the
potential social problems and security threats.

Polls indicate that about 60 percent of Americans oppose guest-worker programs
and three-quarters of Americans believe the government is doing too little to
secure the nation's borders.

Democrats acknowledge concerns about the issue, but it is Republicans who are in
the most difficult spot. One lawmaker trying to juggle law-and-order voters with
business pressures is Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), who is fighting for reelection in
November. His state is the birthplace of the Minutemen, a citizens' border
patrol founded after Sept. 11. It was also the site of one of the biggest
rallies against the House bill, held last week in Phoenix.

To keep the heat on Kyl, Tancredo issued a   news  release titled "Tancredo to
Kyl: Just Say No to Amnesty," urging the senator to vote against the
guest-worker proposal in committee, which Kyl did. But the Arizona Republican
refused to comment about Tancredo's influence over the immigration debate. "I
don't want to talk about it," he grumbled while dashing for an elevator.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              93 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants, Yes;
Immigration, Maybe;
Poll Finds No Consensus on What to Do About Those Who Are Here Illegally

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 794 words


People who live in the Washington area have a better opinion of immigrants than
most Americans do but share the nation's ambivalence about whether those who are
here illegally should be allowed to stay, according to a poll released
yesterday.

The poll found that U.S. residents have growing concerns about the impact of
immigration but increasingly positive attitudes about immigrants. Overall,
though, it found that immigration issues do not top most people's lists of the
nation's biggest problems. In the Washington area, traffic and crime ranked far
higher.

The nonpartisan Pew Research Center and the Pew Hispanic Center commissioned the
poll in an effort to influence heated debate over immigration legislation before
the Senate. Legislation passed by the House emphasizes increased border
security, but proposals in the Senate would create a temporary guest-worker
program or a path to citizenship for the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants.

The national poll of 2,000 adults, taken between Feb. 8 and March 7, found that
a growing majority of Americans hold positive views of immigrants as
individuals, but a growing majority also believe they are more burden than asset
to the country. There was no clear agreement on what to do about illegal
immigrants: 32 percent want to let them stay permanently; 32 percent would
create a temporary-worker program; and 27 percent would deport them all.

In the Washington area, where a separate survey was taken of 800 residents, most
people believe immigrants are more asset than burden, in contrast with the
national view. But opinion also is divided here: 37 percent would let illegal
immigrants stay; 28 percent would create a temporary-worker option; and 21
percent would require them to leave.

"People are worried about the cost of immigration, but at the same time they
view immigrants with some admiration," said Gabriel Escobar, associate director
of the Pew Hispanic Center. "That's what sets up the ambivalence."

The Washington area's more welcoming attitude toward immigrants stems in part
from its high incomes, high education levels and good economy, all of which the
survey linked to greater likelihood of support for immigrants. Escobar said the
region's diverse and spread-out immigration, in contrast with regions where most
immigrants are poor and crowded into a few places, also helps build backing for
the foreign born.

The poll found that two-thirds of Americans support creating a database of
workers that employers could check to determine whether a job applicant is
legal, and three-quarters support requiring all job seekers to have a new kind
of government-issued identification card. A smaller share  --  but still a
majority  --  of Washington residents support both ideas, which civil liberties
groups strongly oppose.

The regional poll found that 54 percent of residents favored
government-supported day labor centers, such as the one that opened recently in
Herndon, and 35 percent opposed them. Reflecting the same attitude found by the
poll, a conference of government officials from 10 local Maryland and Virginia
jurisdictions expressed its backing for such centers as a tool to manage the
crowds of immigrants who gather in public places to seek day work.

Meeting yesterday at the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments, the
officials pledged to ask Congress to reject legislation that punishes illegal
immigrants and aim for a measure that helps more of them gain legal status. "We
need to be humane, not punitive," said George L. Leventhal (D-At Large),
president of the Montgomery County Council.

Washington area residents agree with the rest of the country that the best way
to stem illegal immigration is to punish employers who hire undocumented
workers. Half endorsed that view. A third said the Border Patrol should be
expanded. Fewer than 10 percent favor building more fences on the border, which
is a major provision of the House-passed immigration bill.

People who live in greater Washington  --  a region that stretches from southern
Maryland to eastern West Virginia and where one in six residents is an immigrant
--  are more likely to say that immigrants accept jobs other U.S. residents
won't, that they pay their share of taxes, and that they are not on welfare.

Ilryong Moon, a Fairfax County School Board member who was born in South Korea,
said the survey's findings about the region echo his own experience.

"They are a part of this vibrant economy, and they also provide opportunities
for residents in Fairfax County to enjoy an enriching cultural life," he said.
"That is a very valuable experience for our children as they grow in this very
global society."

Staff writer Karin Brulliard contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              94 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Student Stabbed During March Over Immigration Bills

BYLINE: Maria Glod and Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 368 words


A 16-year-old Fairfax County student was stabbed yesterday morning as he marched
with other students to protest proposed federal legislation that would crack
down on illegal immigrants, police said.

The teenager, a student at Lee High School in Springfield, was treated for
injuries that were not life-threatening at Inova Fairfax Hospital and was in
stable condition, police and school officials said. Police said a 17-year-old
who was not involved in the protest was arrested and charged with malicious
wounding.

Officer Richard Henry, a police spokesman, said the stabbing arose from a
disagreement between the two teenagers and was not connected to the protest.
Police said the 17-year-old was not a student.

"He injected himself into the protest," Henry said, "to continue the dispute"
with the victim.

Law enforcement sources said a dispute over a girl led to the attack.

In the past week, hundreds of students in Northern Virginia and some in Maryland
have staged walkouts or skipped school to join nationwide protests against
proposed laws that would make it a felony to be in the United States illegally
and make it a crime to assist illegal immigrants.

In a letter, Fairfax school officials encouraged parents to urge their children
to remain in class and, if they want, participate in rallies after school.

"We are all saddened by this attack and hope for the student's rapid recovery,"
officials wrote in the letter.

"All of us who work with students understand the importance of protecting
students by keeping them in school during school hours," officials said in the
letter. "At the same time, we recognize individuals' free-speech rights. In many
cases today, students demonstrated today on school grounds and remained safe.
Those who left campus put themselves in danger."

School officials said students from Lee, Hayfield and Edison high schools, among
others, participated in yesterday's demonstration.

Police said the 16-year-old was stabbed just before 11 a.m. as the group marched
on South Van Dorn Street near Edison High School in the Franconia area. Friends
took the teenager to the Inova Healthplex at Franconia-Springfield, and he was
later taken to Inova Fairfax Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              95 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Delphi's Line in the Sand Au ...

SECTION: Financial; F02

LENGTH: 437 words


Auto parts giant Delphi stepped up pressure on its unions and General Motors to
come to a grand compromise that will reshape the U.S. auto industry. Delphi
asked a bankruptcy court for permission to cut wages from $27 to $16.50 over two
years, eliminate 8,500 white-collar jobs, close or sell most of it plants and
tear up contracts with GM. Unions opposed the move and threatened a strike that
would cripple GM and likely force it into bankruptcy. Negotiations will continue
for two months while the court considers the request.

With 5 percent of the U.S. workforce made up of illegal immigrants, both parties
were sharply divided as the Senate began consideration of competing immigration
bills. The White House, backed by business, unions and Hispanic groups, wants to
increase quotas for "guest workers" while allowing 11 million illegal immigrants
to remain here if they pay back taxes, learn English and stay employed. House
and Senate Republican leaders are pushing deportation, sanctions against
employers of illegal immigrants and a wall across the border.

All that good food and offers of good faith in Beijing apparently worked. Sens.
Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) agreed to put off a
Senate vote on a bill that would impose 27.5 percent tariffs on all Chinese
imports as punishment for currency manipulation. The duo said they will give
China until next fall to show that the yuan has risen closer to a market
exchange rate. Two other senators introduced a milder bill that would require
more modest sanctions if the Treasury finds China's currency is merely
"misaligned."

It was a big week for patent and copyright law. In Washington, the Supreme Court
heard arguments in a case involving eBay, the online auctioneer whose "buy it
now" feature was found to violate the patent of MercExchange of Great Falls.
Software firms are siding with eBay, drug companies with MercExchange.
Meanwhile, in London, Apple Corps, owned by the Beatles, asked Britain's High
Court to enforce a 15-year-old agreement and stop Apple Computer from using an
apple logo in its iTunes marketing.

Strikes by government workers, protests by students and violence by marauding
youth gangs deepened France's political crisis. President Jacques Chirac said he
would sign the controversial legislation that sparked it all, which will give
employers the right to fire young employees during their first two years on the
job. Unions and student leaders dismissed his suggestion of modifying the law by
cutting the probation period in half and requiring a reason for dismissal. More
strikes are planned for Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              96 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Volunteers Refocus On Border;
Attention Sought for Immigration Issues

BYLINE: Arthur H. Rotstein, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: THREE POINTS, Ariz. April 1


Minuteman volunteers concerned about the continued flow of illegal immigrants
across the border from Mexico gathered Saturday with lawn chairs, binoculars and
cellphones for a new month-long campaign aimed at raising public awareness of
the issue.

A year after their first watch-and-report operation along the border in
southeastern Arizona, members of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps embarked on a
much larger effort in the busy migrant-smuggling corridor.

At a rally kicking off the effort at a remote southern Arizona ranch Saturday
afternoon, politicians and activists opposing illegal immigration gave fiery
speeches calling for more border control.

Don Goldwater, a Republican candidate for Arizona governor, said he had a
message for President Bush. "Build us that wall now," Goldwater said, referring
to a measure that would add 700 miles of fences along the border. He promised
that, if elected, he would put illegal immigrants in a tent city on the border
and use their labor to build the wall. Goldwater is a nephew of the late GOP
senator Barry Goldwater.

Each month, thousands cross into Arizona from Mexico. So far this fiscal year,
which began on Oct. 1, agents have caught more than 48,000 illegal immigrants in
the area staked out this weekend, up 53 percent, compared with the same period
the previous year.

The Minuteman group says it plans to hold similar exercises along the
U.S.-Mexican border in California, New Mexico and Texas, and along the
U.S.-Canadian border in Washington state, New Hampshire, Vermont and New York.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              97 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Protest Crosses Bridge Over Troubled Issue;
More Than 20,000 Demand Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants in United States

BYLINE: Michelle Garcia, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK April 1


Within sight of the Statue of Liberty, thousands of young families, teenagers
and activists walked across the Brooklyn Bridge on Saturday demanding an end to
second-class citizenship and amnesty for illegal immigrants.

The demonstration, which drew more than 20,000 participants, was the latest in a
series of protests that have sounded across the nation. The peaceful crowd that
turned out reflected New York's cultural mosaic. Chinese immigrants chanted in
Spanish while indigenous dancers in feathered headdresses burned sage. Korean
folk musicians ushered a crowd that included a clan of women who cried: "Like
Martin Luther King, we have a dream."

"My dream is to have equality for people who come to work," said Alejandra
Garcia, 47, a Mexican-born green-card holder. "The United States is becoming
richer because of the work of immigrants."

Her son, who is in the United States illegally, attends college and has hopes of
becoming a psychiatrist. "But he won't be able to work," Garcia said. She said
that without a policy change, he will remain confined to the underground
economy.

Marchers waved flags of birth countries along with the Stars and Stripes. Many
in the crowd were U.S. citizens or green-card holders but said their families
included undocumented immigrants. Some said they felt duty-bound to march
because they were once illegal immigrants.

Advocacy groups representing Haitian, Chinese and Mexican immigrants, among
others, organized the protest under the umbrella of the International Immigrants
Foundation in opposition to legislation approved by the House that would make
illegal entry a felony and calls for the construction of a fence along a portion
of the southern U.S. border.

Many stroller-pushing parents and teenagers said the march into Manhattan was
their first demonstration. Despite heavy promotion in religious and immigrant
media, the protest drew a small fraction of the city's 2.8 million foreign-born
population and attracted a far smaller turnout than the 500,000-strong march in
Los Angeles last week. A much smaller crowd of fewer than 1,000 protested in
Costa Mesa, Calif., on Saturday.

While some of the banners pledged love for the United States, protesters leveled
criticism at President Bush with placards and chants in Spanish of "Listen Bush,
we have joined the struggle."

David Kim, 26, a naturalized citizen, leaned against the bridge. Kim, a
librarian, was 12 when his family immigrated. He calls the pending legislation
xenophobic and racist.

"I believe the same logic and system by which people are discriminated against
based on race and sexuality is working against the poor immigrant," he said.

Frank Zhang, 52, a sidewalk portraitist in Times Square, skipped the afternoon
tourist crowd to join in the march. The Chinese-born immigrant said he cherishes
the ideals that laid the foundation of his adopted country.

"I like democracy, I like freedom," he said, then reflected on the legislation
in Congress: "I don't like that this law makes us all criminals."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              98 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Cardinal Puts Church in Fight for Immigration Rights

BYLINE: John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 1145 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


One day, Roger Mahony, then about 12, was working in his father's poultry
processing plant in the San Fernando Valley when law enforcement agents
searching for illegal immigrants  raided the facility.

"I will never forget them bursting through the doors,"  Mahony recalled. "I was
terrified by it. And I thought, 'These poor people; they're here making a living
supporting their families.' . . . It had a very deep impact on me throughout the
years." One of his father's workers was taken away.

Now Cardinal Roger Mahony, he leads the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. It is the
largest Roman Catholic diocese in the country, and Mahony has recently placed
himself and the church  in the middle of the national debate on immigration.

On March 1, during Ash Wednesday Mass, the Hollywood-born clergyman attacked a
House bill that would turn most people and institutions that aid illegal
immigrants into felons. Calling it "blameful, vicious" legislation, Mahony vowed
a campaign of civil disobedience in the archdiocese's 288 parishes if it becomes
law.

Protest organizers and participants credited Mahony's fire from the pulpit  --
and the educational campaign he initiated in January throughout his archdiocese
--  with playing a critical role in organizing opposition. They say his efforts
helped prompt half a million people, including many illegal immigrants,  to feel
safe enough participate in one of the biggest demonstrations ever in downtown
Los Angeles on March 25, calling for a more liberal immigration bill.

Los Angeles was one of more than a dozen cities  in which demonstrators coursed
through the streets. Earlier last week, a Senate committee approved an
alternative measure with a guest-worker program that would help many illegal
immigrants eventually win permanent residency or even U.S. citizenship. "I think
this is a good beginning," Mahony said in an interview, "but we are not stopping
now."

He is tall and stoop-shouldered. His face fixed in an almost permanent smile,
Mahony became archbishop in 1985. Much of his religious career has been devoted
to Hispanic migrants and the civic activism he countenanced last month.

In the early 1960s, Mahony attended a seminary a stone's throw from citrus farms
in the San Fernando Valley. He honed his Spanish by practicing with fruit
pickers brought to the United States on the "bracero" guest-worker program that
ended in 1964 in part because the workers were ruthlessly exploited. Mahony
recalled the paychecks of the laborers. Seven days of work for $11.08 with a
laundry list of deductions  --  for the rent of a cot, a blanket, towels,
silverware, meals.

A year after Mahony  became a priest in Fresno in 1964, Filipino and Mexican
farm workers launched the Delano Grape Strike, leading to the formation of the
United Farm Workers and elevating labor leader Cesar Chavez to international
prominence.

At the time, no government agency claimed jurisdiction over agricultural
workers, so the church stepped in. From the start of the strike, Mahony worked
on the Bishop's Committee on Farm Labor and mediated between strikers and farm
owners. In 1975, then-Gov. Edmund G. "Jerry" Brown Jr. appointed Mahony as the
first chairman of the state Agricultural Labor Relations Board  --  a
recognition of the unique role that Mahony and the church had played in fighting
for the rights of migrant workers.

"For many, many years he has been totally involved in so many ways trying to
give attention to the Hispanic community," said the Rev. Anastasio "Tacho"
Rivera, who ran the Spanish ministry section of the archdiocese for years. When
Mahony was appointed archbishop two decades ago, Rivera recalled that there were
two priests in the archdiocese's Spanish office. Today, with Latinos estimated
to  make up about three-fourths of the archdiocese's 5 million members, there
are more than 20 priests.

"L.A. is the second-largest concentration of Mexicans next to Mexico City. . . .
this has to be an important issue for him," said the Rev. Thomas J. Reese, a
fellow at the Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown University. "This is
the church at its best, out to defend the defenseless. And they're Catholic."

Religious observers say that for the church at large and Mahony in particular,
the immigration debate provides an opportunity to stress values that have
recently received little attention. For the past few years, Reese said, some in
the church's leadership have been "appalled" at how Republican politicians used
opposition to abortion to capture the Catholic vote in 2002 and 2004. By putting
itself squarely on the liberal side of the immigration debate, Reese said, the
church's hierarchy can "go on the record and show that the Roman Catholic Church
is not in the back pocket of the Republican Party."

Mahony seemed to agree when, in the interview, he married the church's position
on immigrant rights to its antiabortion stance.

"People unfortunately always want to place the pro-life agenda in two boxes:
abortion and euthanasia," he said, speaking of two issues opposed by most
Republicans. "But our pro-life agenda encompasses a broad spectrum of issues,
and [immigration] is one of them." Another aspect of that agenda is the church's
opposition to capital punishment. In March 2005, the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops, for the first time in 25 years, launched a campaign against the death
penalty  --  another issue where it and many Republicans diverge.

Mahony said the scandal involving molestation of children by priests had caused
the church to focus on itself. "You have to keep in mind in 2002 the sexual
abuse thing arose and that predominated the church . . . and also kept us away
from some of our traditional activities," he said. Now, he contended, the church
has been made safe for children, so its leadership is eager to focus on other
social issues.

Mahony has been criticized by parishioners and other Catholics for his stance in
the scandal. He directed a tough legal battle against the Los Angeles District
Attorney's Office, which wants access to the diocese's personnel records to
investigate possible felony child-molestation charges against as many as 100
priests.

The archdiocese wants to keep the records closed. Analysts close to the church
said that by taking a strong, principled stance on a different prominent issue,
especially one such as immigration that harkens back to his past, Mahony is
reminding his flock of the breadth of his achievements and his longtime
commitment to social justice.

Asked if he took his position on Ash Wednesday with an eye to turning his legacy
away from the sex abuse  scandal and back toward issues that have informed his
religious life, Mahony shook his head. "I don't believe in legacies at all," he
said. "I don't see anything in the gospels that speaks about legacies, except
everlasting life."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              99 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration's Scrambled Politics

BYLINE: Ruth Marcus

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 907 words


In Washington last week, the immigration debate descended at times to the level
of a schoolyard dispute over the semantics of amnesty. Is too! Is not! Talk
radio and cable shows worked themselves into a lather over Mexican flags at
pro-immigration rallies. On CNN, Chief Nativism Correspondent Lou Dobbs even
came out against St. Patrick's Day.

In bright-red-state Nebraska, meanwhile, the legislature (technically
nonpartisan but in fact two-thirds Republican) voted to let the children of
illegal immigrants get in-state tuition breaks at state colleges.

Forget "What's the Matter With Kansas?" What's up in Nebraska?

Several things. First, Nebraska illustrates the new geographic reality of
illegal immigration: They're not just in Texas (or California or Florida)
anymore. In recent years the most rapid growth in the population of undocumented
migrants (as well as legal immigrants) has taken place in states that previously
had only a handful of foreign-born residents.

In 1990, according to an analysis by the Pew Hispanic Center, the number of
undocumented migrants in states outside the six biggest in terms of illegal
immigration (California, New York, Texas, Florida, Illinois and New Jersey) was
400,000  --  just 12 percent of the undocumented population. By 2004 that number
had grown tenfold, to almost 4 million  --  39 percent of the undocumented
population. In Nebraska, the population of illegal immigrants  --  drawn by jobs
in meatpacking plants  --  quadrupled, from 6,000 in 1990 to 24,000 in 2000;
now, it may be as high as 40,000.

Second, Nebraska underscores the scrambled politics of immigration: Where a
politician will come down on the issue isn't necessarily predictable based on
party affiliation or geography. Nebraska's Republican senator, Chuck Hagel, is a
leader in backing comprehensive immigration reform. The state's Democratic
senator, Ben Nelson  --  up for reelection this year  --  has been taking an
enforcement-comes-first line; he touts a "get-tough border security bill" that
features a fence extending from the Pacific to the Gulf of Mexico. On the
tuition bill, the state's Republican governor said he'd have "great reluctance"
about signing it, yet two of the Republicans challenging him expressed their
support for the measure in a debate last week.

Elsewhere, too, politicians of the same party in the same state find themselves
on opposite sides of the immigration divide: See Republican Sens. John McCain
and Jon Kyl in Arizona. And the strongest feelings against illegal immigration
may not be where the immigrants already are but where they're just arriving.
Republican Rep. Heather Wilson of New Mexico voted against the punitive House
bill. Not a huge surprise: Wilson's Democratic-leaning district is 43 percent
Hispanic.

But in the race to succeed Republican Rep. Jim Nussle in a swing district in
northeastern Iowa, immigration has emerged as a major topic in the Republican
primary, despite the district's minuscule but growing immigrant population. The
three GOP candidates are vying to out-tough each other on the issue, with Brian
Kennedy traveling to the banks of the Rio Grande for a "fact-finding mission"
and state Rep.  Bill Dix pushing legislation to cut off home mortgage loans for
illegal immigrants.

Perhaps the most intriguing, and gratifying, aspect of the Nebraska debate,
though, is the suggestion that the rising tide of illegal immigration can
produce rational policy rather than unthinking backlash. Granted, this isn't the
majority reaction. The National Conference of State Legislatures reports that at
least 36 bills have been introduced in 20 states  this year involving government
benefits for illegal immigrants, most to restrict them. In addition, eight
states are considering measures to prohibit in-state tuition benefits for
illegal immigrants or to repeal those already in place. This includes Virginia,
where then-Gov. Mark Warner vetoed such a bill in 2003. Only four states are
weighing legislation that would go in the same direction as Nebraska.

The Nebraska measure  --  the state would be the 10th  to grant in-state tuition
to children of illegal immigrants  --  would apply to students who have lived in
the state for at least three years, graduated from a Nebraska high school and
will sign affidavits swearing they will seek to become permanent legal
residents. Proponents argue that giving such students a tuition break reflects
the reality that they are here to stay in any event and that the state will be
better off the better educated they become. And with the state losing
native-born residents, advocates make the case that there is an upside to
immigration. As one state senator, a rural Republican, told a GOP colleague
who's running for Congress, "You wouldn't have a seat to run for if it wasn't
for immigration."

D. Milo Mumgaard, executive director of the Nebraska Appleseed Center, a
public-interest law group that has been lobbying for the measure, says he's
hopeful that the Nebraska experience can be replicated. "We have worked hard to
cast public dialogue in a way that says beating up on immigrants is very
shortsighted," he says. "What we try to do here in Nebraska is remind everyone
that Nebraska in particular is a state of immigrants. We're just seeing the same
old, same old. It's just this time it happens to be a bunch of brown-skinned
people from south of the border."

marcusr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              100 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Letter on Immigration Deepens Split Among Evangelicals

BYLINE: Alan Cooperman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 705 words


More than 50 evangelical Christian leaders and organizations voiced their
support yesterday for an immigration bill that would allow illegal immigrants to
become U.S. citizens without returning to their native countries.

The statement marks a deepening split among evangelicals over immigration. It
was signed by a mixture of Hispanic and white church groups. But most of the
nation's large, politically influential evangelical organizations either back
rival legislation that focuses on border enforcement and the deportation of
illegal immigrants, or have been silent on the issue.

Hispanic evangelical leaders said yesterday that they have received support from
Roman Catholic, Jewish and Muslim groups, but have been bitterly disappointed by
the response of most of their fellow evangelicals, both white and black.

"This is the watershed movement  --  it's the moment where either we really
forge relationships with the white evangelical church that will last for
decades, or there is a possibility of a definitive schism here," said the Rev.
Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership
Conference, which serves 10,700 Hispanic evangelical churches with 15 million
members.

"There will be church ramifications to this, and there will be political
ramifications," he said.

In a letter yesterday to President Bush and members of Congress, Rodriguez's
group and its allies cited Bible passages that call for the compassionate
treatment of foreigners. Specifically, the letter urged "border protection
policies that are consistent with humanitarian values," streamlined procedures
for reuniting separated families, and an option for  undocumented workers to
legalize their status.

The letter effectively endorsed a proposal by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.). The bill combines a guest-worker program with
provisions allowing illegal immigrants to apply for citizenship after paying
fines and back taxes, undergoing criminal background checks and learning
English.

Among the signers was World Relief, the humanitarian arm of the National
Association of Evangelicals. But the NAE itself did not sign the letter because
its members are divided on how to deal with immigration, said the Rev. Richard
Cizik, the NAE's vice president for governmental affairs.

Polls show that about two-thirds of white evangelicals consider new immigrants a
burden on society, compared with about half of all Americans who hold that view.
On the other hand, Cizik said, most evangelicals realize that Latino immigrants
are the fastest-growing part of their church.

"Evangelicals are a lot more sensitive to the plight of immigrants than outside
observers might think," he said. "When you put together the biblical mandate to
care for the alien and the receptivity of the Latino community to the evangel,
to the gospel, you have a sensitivity factor that almost outweighs the
traditional evangelical concern for law and order."

Some predominantly white evangelical groups, such as the Christian Coalition and
Phyllis Schlafly's Eagle Forum, have strongly opposed the Kennedy-McCain bill,
labeling it an "amnesty" package. They support a House-passed measure that would
concentrate on sealing U.S. borders and enforcing existing immigration laws.

"We think our national boundaries should be respected. That's a biblical
principle also," said Christian Coalition lobbyist Jim Backlin.

Many larger groups, such as James C. Dobson's Colorado-based Focus on the
Family, have not taken a stand on the issue. Rodriguez, of the Hispanic
Christian conference, said his group wants to know why.

"We need to know from white evangelical leaders why did they not support
comprehensive immigration reform, why they came down in favor exclusively of
enforcement, without any mention of the compassionate side, without any mention
of the Christian moral imperatives," he said.

"So down the road, when the white evangelical community calls us and says, 'We
want to partner with you on marriage, we want to partner on family issues,' my
first question will be: 'Where were you when 12 million of our brothers and
sisters were about to be deported and 12 million families disenfranchised?' "

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              101 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Republicans Agree on Immigration Bill;
Wide Bipartisan Support Would Break Logjam

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A18

LENGTH: 1049 words


Senate Republicans reached agreement last night on a compromise immigration
measure that they believe will garner enough bipartisan support to break through
a parliamentary impasse that has stymied progress on a high-stakes border
security bill for two weeks.

Under the agreement, the Senate would allow undocumented workers a path to
lawful employment and citizenship if they could prove  --  through work stubs,
utility bills or other documents  --  that they have been in the country for
five years. To attain citizenship, those immigrants would have to pay a $2,000
penalty, back taxes, learn English, undergo a criminal background check and
remain working for 11 years.

Those who have been here a shorter time would have to return to one of 16
designated ports of entry, such as El Paso, Tex., and apply for a new form of
temporary work visa for low-skilled and unskilled workers. An additional
provision still under consideration would disqualify illegal immigrants who have
been in the country less than two years.

In a surprise move last night, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) went
to the floor with a parliamentary motion to send the compromise to the Senate
Judiciary Committee for ratification, then scheduled a vote for tomorrow to cut
off debate on that motion.

A final breakthrough was held back yesterday by Senate Minority Leader Harry M.
Reid (Nev.), who insisted that any substantive compromise wait until a showdown
vote to cut off debate on a more lenient measure passed by the Judiciary
Committee last week. Reid and other Democratic leaders hope to show they have 60
votes in support of that bill, written by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and
John McCain (R-Ariz.). That showdown should come this morning, and if they can
break a possible filibuster, they could show no compromise is needed that would
fundamentally change the McCain-Kennedy bill.

As of last night, however, the vote to break a filibuster appeared almost
certain to fall short of the 60 supporters needed  --  in large part because of
the bruised Republican feelings over Reid's parliamentary tactics that have tied
up the Senate for days. Even McCain said he would not bow to the Democrats'
tactics and vote to end debate.

That would open the door to the new compromise, co-written by Sens. Mel Martinez
(R-Fla.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.). But Senate Democrats last night said they had
not seen the compromise, much less approved it.

"We don't even know what's in it," said Reid spokesman James Patrick Manley.

If the compromise fails, the Senate will leave Washington this weekend for a
two-week spring recess and nothing to show for a fortnight of heated debate.
That would allow organizers of a national protest Monday against a crackdown on
illegal immigration to build pressure on lawmakers to support the McCain-Kennedy
measure, which would permit virtually all illegal immigrants, no matter how long
they have been in the United States, to stay and work toward citizenship.

"If we don't get something worked out by sunrise, then the Senate Democrats are
going to be cut out," warned Sen. Trent Lott (R-Miss.), voicing the frustration
of a GOP majority that has been outflanked by the Democratic leadership.

"This whole thing hinges on Reid. He is the fulcrum on whether anything
happens," said Don Stewart, spokesman for Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.).

That was a remarkable turn of events for a Republican Congress much more
accustomed to steamrolling the Democratic minority. In an extraordinary showdown
yesterday, Frist assembled most of the 55 Republicans in the Senate chamber to
castigate Reid's intransigence.

"I used to say this is another insufferable attempt of the other side to block,
to obstruct, to postpone, to delay, but now I think it's beyond that,'" Frist
protested.

Facing one side of the chamber full of Republican senators, Reid stood virtually
alone, responding, "The majority can move forward with a bill that will fix our
borders and reform our immigration system or continue to stonewall this. It's in
the eyes of the beholder who's stonewalling."

There is virtual unanimity in the Senate that the immigration system is broken.
Of the several immigration bills that have been drafted, all would beef up the
Border Patrol with more agents and higher technology, strengthen rules against
employing illegal immigrants and penalties for businesses that violate those
rules, and create tamper-proof identification cards to replace easily forged
Social Security cards and other documents used to get jobs.

But senators have splintered on what to do with immigrants already in this
country. One approach, championed by Cornyn and Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), would
demand that all undocumented workers return home and apply for a new two-year
temporary work visa. Such visas could be renewed for a total of six work years,
but workers would have to return to their home countries for a year before
reapplying.

McCain maintains that approach is unrealistic, arguing that illegal immigrants
would ignore the new visas and remain underground.

Other senators, including conservative Republican Johnny Isakson (Ga.) and
moderate Democrat Ben Nelson (Neb.), favor the approach taken by the House in
December, when it passed a bill that cracked down on illegal immigration without
offering any new avenue for lawful employment or citizenship. A handful of
Democrats, led by Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (N.D.), resolutely oppose the provision
in the McCain-Kennedy bill that would offer about 400,000 work visas a year to
low-skilled foreigners seeking access to a U.S. workplace.

In the middle of the factions is President Bush, who for years has called for
major changes in immigration laws, including a guest-worker program, but to many
members of Congress has been maddeningly vague about just what he wants.

Yesterday, Bush demanded "a bill that will help us secure our borders, a bill
that will cause the people in the interior of this country to recognize and
enforce the law, and a bill that will include a guest-worker provision that will
enable us to more secure the border, will recognize that there are people here
working hard for jobs Americans won't do, and a guest-worker provision that is
not amnesty, one that provides for automatic citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              102 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Don't Forget the Children of 'Illegals'

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 218 words


There has been a lot of discussion lately about the immigration issue as
Congress debates reforms to what everyone agrees is a broken national policy.
Much of the discussion centers on the economic impact of the large number of
workers who are in this country illegally.

As a former high school teacher, I saw another side to this problem: the impact
of illegal status on young people. Besides the millions of adults who hover in
the half-light of illegal status, there are thousands of children growing up
"illegal." Many of these young men and women came to this country as small
children and have little memory of their "home" countries.

What do you think being "illegal" does to a young person's self-confidence? What
do you think it does to his or her respect for the law? This is the human side
of the permanent  underclass. Even the toughest kids will have a little shame, a
reflexive secretiveness, under the surface. Those kids have to choose: They
either respect themselves or they respect the law.

I have found children of illegal immigrants often are distrustful of the police
and more skeptical of the freedom and opportunity America offers than other
children are. As we debate this important issue, let's not forget the children
who bear the stigma of illegal status.

LISA TRANGSRUD

McLean

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              103 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Superficial on Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 276 words


I am tired of reporting by anecdote. "The Hard Road" [Magazine, March 12]
devoted a substantial amount of time, space and detail to the story of  an
undocumented immigrant from  Nicaragua. It was thorough and poignant, but it
could have been written 10 years ago. Heck, change Daniel Rodriguez's
nationality to Russian, Irish, Scandinavian, Polish, Chinese, Greek or Italian,
and a similar article could have been written 100 years ago.

Post readers know about the struggles of immigrants. What we don't know enough
about are proposed solutions to the problems of illegal immigration.

Various immigration bills are pending in Congress. On the same day that The Post
was telling us the story of Rodriguez, the Senate Judiciary Committee was
considering immigration legislation. The Post said nothing about it in that
article and made scant mention of it in the days that followed.

The March 22 news story "Immigration Debate Heats Up" spent only a few
paragraphs describing a bill the House approved in December. It then reverted to
the predictable reactions from the Hispanic community.

I'd like to hear what immigration advocacy groups propose. I'd like to hear what
solutions home builders, developers and restaurateurs think would be workable
within their industries, since they rely heavily on illegal immigrants. What
effect would using only legal labor have on the prices of new homes or the price
of a meal? I'd like to know how various immigration proposals compare with what
we've tried in the past  --  lotteries, amnesty  --  and what other countries
are doing. I'd like more details about legislation.

--  Wendy R. Leibowitz

Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              104 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

A Conservative Crosses the Border;
Immigration Compromise Backed as a Humanitarian Act

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 973 words


Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) is one of the most conservative senators, a torchbearer
on antiabortion and family causes. His measured opposition to same-sex marriage
and embryonic stem-cell research has made him a favorite of social
conservatives, and he has emerged as a dark horse for the 2008 GOP presidential
nomination.

So it came as something of a surprise when Brownback joined forces with
Democrats and maverick Republicans this week to try to push through a major
restructuring of immigration laws that would offer most of the nearly 12 million
illegal immigrants a work permit and a pathway to citizenship.

"This is probably the most divisive issue in America today, and I hope this
compromise ends up bringing us together," Brownback declared at a news
conference Thursday with his immigration allies, including Democratic leader
Harry M. Reid (Nev.) and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.).

But Brownback is one of only a small number of Senate conservatives who favor
helping undocumented workers gain legal status, and the bipartisan accord he
helped negotiate unraveled yesterday before the Senate left on a two-week
recess. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) and other conservatives derided Brownback's
approach as amnesty for lawbreakers. "Essentially this is 12 million new green
cards," Cornyn said.

Brownback, a Roman Catholic, says he approaches immigration from a humanitarian
perspective and is unmoved by his colleagues' criticism. Voicing the views of
many evangelical Christians, Brownback said he considers the plight of illegal
immigrants a form of suffering.

"One of the key measures in any society is what you do for the so-called least
of these," Brownback said in a floor speech laced with religious references.
"People who have difficulty with status, difficulty having laws applied to them,
have difficulty accessing the system are considered the least of these."

Catholic leaders, most notably Los Angeles Cardinal Roger Michael Mahony, have
strongly backed proposals for legalization of undocumented immigrants and a
guest-worker program. They see those efforts as a moral imperative that grows
out of the biblical mandate to care for the stranger and show compassion for the
poor.

Mahony has gone so far as to say that no Catholic politician could vote "in good
faith" for the House-passed legislation that would crack down on illegal
immigrants and punish those who help them. Many Jewish, Muslim and Protestant
leaders have similarly backed legalization efforts.

But Brownback's support for a dramatic restructuring of the nation's immigration
laws, including a version that emerged from the Senate Judiciary Committee last
week, has angered many conservatives.

"Brownback Can Kiss '08 Run Goodbye," blasted the journal Human Events. The
National Review online warned: "Conservatives will long remember his vote for
this reckless proposal."

Some of Brownback's GOP colleagues believe his view of illegal immigration is
simplistic and fails to take into account problems posed by a porous U.S. border
with Mexico. "We ought to make sure our borders are secure first," said Sen.
Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah). "Then we'll see what we can do to be compassionate, and
solve those problems."

Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), the head of the House Immigration Caucus and a
champion of the law-and-order approach embodied in the House-passed version of
the legislation, accused Brownback of being "an extreme opponent of getting
tough on illegal immigration."

Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, who talks frequently
with the senator, said Brownback should address the concerns of religious
conservatives, including beliefs that a large influx of undocumented workers
undermines the social fabric and that many of them do not learn English or
attempt to assimilate into the larger society.

Brownback kept a low profile during the immigration debate. He appeared at one
news conference announcing the compromise bill Thursday and was the last of 12
speakers  --  although he lingered on stage afterward, while his Senate
colleague Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), a Cuban immigrant, announced the deal to
Spanish-language television stations. Later that night, when conservatives were
pressing for major changes to the bill, Brownback slipped into Reid's office to
urge him to fight to keep the package intact.

Brownback, 49, was raised on a farm and served as the Kansas agriculture
secretary before he was elected to the House in the class of 1994. Two years
later, he won the Senate seat vacated by former Senate majority leader Robert J.
Dole (R-Kan.), who resigned to run for president.

The senator has worked on behalf of North Korean and Sudanese refugees, victims
of sex trafficking, and stemming the AIDS epidemic, which he described at the
2004 Republican National Convention as one of the "greatest moral and
humanitarian crises of our time."

He has championed an African American history museum on the Mall and issuance of
a formal government apology to Native Americans. What ties all the issues
together is "a sense of commitment to the vulnerables," said Michael Horowitz,
senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, who has worked closely with Brownback on
humanitarian issues. "He really takes it to heart. It's for real to him."

President Ronald Reagan was Brownback's role model on immigration issues. The
late president signed a law in 1986 that improved border enforcement and cracked
down on employers for hiring illegal workers. But the bill also legalized 2.8
million undocumented workers.

"I think the conservative position is that we care for the individual,"
Brownback said. Every human being is "beautiful," as he puts it, including
illegal farm workers and hotel maids. "My position is very consistent with
Ronald Reagan, and that's about as conservative an icon as you can get."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              105 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

It's amazing how impassioned ...

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 480 words


It's amazing how impassioned beliefs can make hash of intelligent political
discourse. Recently at my school I was subjected to the sights and sounds of a
student walkout on the immigration issue. We often hear about how important it
is for young people to "believe in something," but when students take sides on a
complex issue and then skip class to yell slogans while others try to learn, my
enthusiasm takes a sharp downward turn and hovers near zero when I learn that
for many the whole thing was merely an excuse to play hooky. There seems to be
no acknowledgment that illegal immigration may be fundamentally unfair to people
such as my parents, who have actually worked through the system; there is no
consideration of the possibility that immigration requirements may serve a
purpose. And what about the underclass that illegal immigration creates? These
are all issues to consider, and taking part in trendy protests is no way to
consider them.

--  Andrew Saraf

is a student at Bethesda-Chevy Chase

High School in Bethesda.

*

We had a walkout this month. I didn't even know there would be a protest; I
thought that all the demonstrations were going on near the Mexican border and in
California. A friend of mine said, "I will go on up there and just represent
where I'm from, you know, show that Salvadorans want to be heard, too."

I was amazed that some did not approve of letting students express their views;
I see no reason why students can't protest measures that could keep family
members from coming to America. Lately there's been a rumor that another walkout
is to be staged, and this time the students do not care who is blocking the
door. "You think they can stop 60 or 70  mad kids?" I guess we will find out.

--  Battle Beasley

is a student at Bethesda-Chevy Chase

High School.

*

It's about a 20-minute drive from Montgomery Blair High School to the U.S.
Capitol building. But in some ways, the distance couldn't be greater.

At Blair, there is no immigration "debate." Blair is home to immigrants
struggling to complete their high school education after receiving practically
no traditional schooling in their home countries. It is home to students who are
working long hours after school to support families facing the challenges of
living in a new country. And it is home to students who are facing deportation.

As a friend recently pointed out, the bill sponsored by Reps. Pete King and
James Sensenbrenner could make felons out of many Blair teachers who help
children of illegal immigrants. It prioritizes the political opportunity offered
by popular xenophobia over the morality and practicality of helping the illegal
immigrants who are already here and will probably never leave. Then again, King
and Sensenbrenner haven't visited Blair yet.

--  Armin Rosen

is a student at Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              106 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Division Over Opening the Golden Door

SECTION: Financial; F02

LENGTH: 460 words


The headline on the front page of The Washington Post told of the breakthrough
Senate compromise on the controversial immigration bill. But the accompanying
photo of the unsmiling senators who cobbled together the agreement was more
prophetic. Hours after it was announced, the deal collapsed.

Today, it seems, no issue challenges this "nation of immigrants" more than the
question of what to do about the flood of illegal immigrants  --  11 million by
last count  --  who have now woven themselves into the fabric of American
society. It has managed to divide Republicans from Republicans, Democrats from
Democrats, the House from the Senate and the White House from the Congress.

The rare bipartisan compromise represented a skillful blend of tougher
enforcement and accommodation. It included stepped-up border enforcement,
tougher sanctions for employers of illegal immigrants and deportation for any
illegals who have been here for less than two years. But for those who have been
here and working at least five years, the Senate deal would have offered the
chance for legalized status, continued employment and even eventual citizenship,
in exchange for a $2,000 fine, payment of back taxes and mastery of the English
language.

In the end, however, last-minute demands by some Republicans to reduce the
number of illegal immigrants who could become eligible for citizenship and to
deport anyone who has committed a crime or skipped a deportation hearing proved
unacceptable to Democratic supporters of the bill. House Republican leaders also
declared the compromise unacceptable.

The economics of illegal immigration are a bit clearer than the politics.

While many pay taxes, illegal immigrants also consume government services. The
balance can be positive or negative, depending largely on the concentration in
any area and whether the work they do is on or off the books.

As many have said, illegal immigrants do the jobs that many Americans prefer not
to do. With the unemployment rate at 4.7 percent, it is hard to say they have
generated a lot of long-term unemployment. At the same time, studies have found
that immigration has driven down the wages of unskilled Americans by as much as
5 percent.

For Americans with more skills and education, however, immigration has mostly
been an economic plus. It contributes to growth by boosting the demand for goods
and services produced by native-born Americans. And it tends to boost living
standards by reducing the costs of a wide range of services, from child care to
painting houses to spending a night at a hotel.

Most significantly, immigrants, whether they are legal or illegal, are precisely
the kind of ambitious and determined risk-takers who are crucial to any dynamic
economy.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              107 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

I marched during the immigrat ...

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 605 words


I marched during the immigration protests at Wakefield High School. It was an
opportunity to stand up for how we felt about immigration reform. Wakefield is
not a "white" school; it's actually 43 percent Hispanic, 29 percent African
American, 17 percent white, and 11 percent Asian/Pacific Islander. Of the 1,448
students at our school, 224 take ESL (English as a Second Language) classes.

Many of the parents of students at Wakefield are hard workers who  might have
come to this country illegally for a better future for their children. They
sacrificed their homes, their families and the lives they'd always known to give
the American dream to their children. They have labored for the right to give
their children the honor of being called Americans. For us to remove some of the
hardest workers in our community is not only immoral but also against everything
America stands for.

--  Elizabeth Raftery

is a student at Wakefield High School

in Arlington.

*

America was built with the help of immigrants from all over. My family came here
from Europe to escape poverty. But I think we should prosecute illegal
immigrants and allow only a limited number of immigrants into the country.

Illegal immigration is a big problem. If the same numbers of illegal immigrants
keep on coming, America will eventually become overpopulated. Also, illegal
immigrants take away jobs from Americans, and they do not pay taxes.

--  Sarah Vasilakos

is a student at Glasgow Middle School

in Alexandria.

*

Regarding the school protests: Although we couldn't compare to the hundreds of
thousands of people who protested in Los Angeles, I still feel as if we  made
our voices heard. Honestly, I agree with school board members when they say that
we should have done this outside of school. I think some people went so that
they wouldn't have to go to class, which is pretty sad and doesn't represent
Wakefield High. But for the people who went to actually make a difference and to
exercise their right of freedom of expression, I'm proud of them.

--  Linda Slape

is a student at Wakefield High School.

*

Why do I feel so strongly about the immigration controversy?

My mom was about 20  when she decided she had to come to the United States.
Having one son and having to support her sick mother wasn't easy in El Salvador,
where she got paid less than a dollar a day. So my mom saved up every penny she
could and started to make plans for her long journey. She had a few cousins who
were already here telling her about how much better their lives were in the
United States.

When the day came for my mom's departure, a lot of tears were shed. Having to
leave her 4-year-old son behind, she started her journey feeling sad and worried
but also hopeful.

She got in the car to meet up with a "coyote" guide who was taking her and other
people who wanted a better life. All the people got in a big truck and rode in
the back for weeks on a long journey to Guatemala. There they got a chance to
shower and get something to eat, and then they were back on their long journey.
They traveled for weeks, making stops only about once a week until they got to
Mexico.

From Mexico, my mom said, they had to cross the desert. That was one of the
hardest things. They had to walk in the hot sun, leaving some belongings if
their load got too heavy. Some people didn't even make it. They died in the hot
desert.

For those sacrifices my mom is now here, a legal immigrant. I don't think
illegal immigrants should be kicked out after all their hard work trying to get
here.

--  Francis Rubio

is a student at Glasgow Middle School.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              108 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Border Control Must Improve, Boehner Says;
House Leader Stresses Law Enforcement

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 606 words


Plans supported by President Bush, and being weighed by the U.S. Senate, to
legalize millions of undocumented immigrants are wrong-headed, and the nation
should instead enforce tough border controls and crack down on people living
illegally in the United States, House Majority Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio)
said yesterday.

Even if the Senate were to combine a guest-worker program with increased border
security  --  a hard-fought compromise on such a measure collapsed Friday  --
Boehner warned that such a plan would place "the cart before the horse."

"I'm for securing the borders and enforcing the laws," Boehner said on ABC's
"This Week." "Until we do that, if you try to create a guest-worker program, all
you're doing is inviting more illegal immigration."

The House has already passed a tough measure that basically calls for capturing
and deporting millions of illegal immigrants  --  a measure that has prompted
nationwide protests from immigrant rights groups, including a gathering
scheduled today in Washington that organizers expect could draw as many as
180,000 people.

The proposal by House Republicans has generated intense anger in many Hispanic,
Asian and African communities, and has become a potent political issue in an
election year, as politicians try to balance the growing influence of Hispanic
voters in local and national politics with a possible conservative backlash.

The Senate will return to the issue in a couple of weeks and again try to craft
a compromise, Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) said on "Fox
News Sunday." Specter agreed that border security was important but said it was
obvious the nation needed to deal with undocumented immigrants "in a rational
way."

Besides the pressing need for change, Specter said the issue also carried "a
real risk of significant political fallout," which he predicted would be a
practical motivator for a bipartisan solution.

The Senate plan that collapsed Friday sought to divide undocumented workers into
three groups, setting those who have been in the United States for a long time
on a path to citizenship. The plan called for penalties on those who entered the
country illegally, but Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a major proponent of tougher
controls and sanctions, said yesterday on CBS's "Face the Nation" that the
penalties were trivial.

The question of whether to absorb some of the 11 million illegal immigrants in
the United States, or to deal harshly with them, has divided the Republican
Party. Bush and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) have called for bringing undocumented
workers, predominantly Hispanics, out of the shadows, but House Republicans have
warned that such a move would condone illegal behavior  --  and would be
tantamount to an amnesty, a term that proponents of such measures have
strenuously avoided.

Boehner and Tancredo both said yesterday that placing undocumented workers on
the path to citizenship was basically an amnesty, and would send a terrible
message to legal immigrants in the United States and aspiring immigrants about
whether it was worth following U.S. law. Boehner said he hoped to reach a
compromise with the Senate, but he suggested that any Senate proposal to
legalize immigrants by offering guest-worker permits was unacceptable.

"You can't begin to talk about a guest-worker bill until you secure the
borders," Boehner said. "We went for 100 years without paying attention to our
borders. And over the last 10 years, we spent a lot of time, effort and money
getting more security on the border. But we're nowhere close to having the kind
of secure borders that Americans want."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              109 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

'We Decided Not to Be Invisible Anymore';
Pro-Immigration Rallies Are Held Across Country

BYLINE: Dan Balz and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1576 words


Hundreds of thousands of pro-immigration demonstrators mobilized on the Mall and
in scores of cities across the country yesterday in a powerful display of
grass-roots muscle-flexing that organizers said could mark a coming-of-age for
Latino political power in the United States.

Calling for legal protection for illegal immigrants, the demonstrators  --  the
overwhelming majority of them Hispanic  --  streamed past the White House in
Washington, jammed streets near City Hall in Lower Manhattan, marched in
Atlanta, held a small candlelight vigil in Los Angeles and, in Mississippi, sang
the civil rights anthem "We Shall Overcome" in Spanish.

Demonstrators massed in cities large and small. In tiny Lake Worth, Fla.,
several thousand legal and illegal immigrants, marching to the beat of drums,
demanded fair treatment, with one sign reading "Let Me Love Your Country." In
Phoenix, an estimated 100,000 rallied at the Arizona Capitol, with families
pushing strollers wedged among construction workers, high school students and
old men wearing cowboy hats.

The largely peaceful demonstrations drew only a smattering of anti-immigration
protesters.

The rallies came against the backdrop of fierce political struggle in
Washington. The House has passed legislation to tighten border security and
criminalize illegal immigrants and those who assist them. The Senate is
stalemated over a compromise that would provide a path to legal status for the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States. President Bush has
backed the Senate approach but has declined to pressure Republicans to act on
it.

A new Washington Post-ABC News poll showed that three-quarters of Americans
think the government is not doing enough to prevent illegal immigration. But
three in five said they favor providing illegal immigrants who have lived here
for years a way to gain legal status and eventual citizenship. The idea received
majority support from Democrats, independents and Republicans. One in five
Americans embraced the House bill, which includes no guest-worker program and
would make felons out of those in this country illegally.

The extraordinary outpouring of demonstrators was organized by a loose coalition
of church, community and labor organizations and knit together by the burgeoning
power of Spanish-language radio and television stations nationwide. The rallies
followed Sunday's demonstration in Dallas, which brought up to half a million
people into the streets, and an earlier event in Los Angeles that drew more than
500,000. The size of the gatherings has caught the attention of Washington
lawmakers.

Unlike some national marches in the past, the pro-immigration rallies have had a
bottom-up, organic quality that often surprised organizers and opponents alike.
But not everything was spontaneous. In contrast to earlier rallies, which
featured Mexican flags and produced a backlash, yesterday's events were awash in
American flags after organizers and radio disc jockeys urged demonstrators not
to give their opponents something to criticize.

"We had American flags because this is our home and we also wanted to bring part
of our heritage," said Salvador Carranza, an organizer of a rally in Madison,
Wis. "We believe we are part of this country, and also part of our heritage, so
we don't think having other flags is disrespectful."

The rallies signaled that the passions of the immigrant community, which wants
Congress to approve comprehensive immigration reform that includes a path to
citizenship, are as intense as they are for those whose opposition to illegal
immigrants helped put the issue on the national agenda.

Adelina Nicholls, president of the Coordinating Council of Community Leaders in
Atlanta and one of the organizers of the march there, said the House bill,
regarded as punitive by many legal and illegal immigrants, "was the ignition
that is giving fuel to all community and grass-roots groups." She added: "We
decided not to be invisible anymore."

Monzerrat Macias, 15, stood with her family under a swaying palm in Lake Worth,
listening to the speakers. She said that her mother came to the United States
from Mexico in 1981 and that most of the children in the Macias family have been
born here. The family turned out "to help our people to get the legalization
they deserve," she said. "We deserve to be here, we work hard. We are
immigrants, but we are not terrorists."

The fast-growing Hispanic population now accounts for about 14 percent of the
U.S. population, but only about 8 percent of the voters in the last presidential
election. For years, experts have predicted that Latinos were on the cusp of
significant political power, and with this week's rallies, Latino advocates said
they have turned a corner. "I think it's a watershed moment," said Harry Pachon,
president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute in Los Angeles.

Whether the rallies spur greater participation at the ballot box by the many
Latino citizens who are not registered or who vote only irregularly will not be
known until later, but there seemed to be little dispute yesterday that the
demonstrations were the most significant public expression yet on political
issues by the Hispanic community, which is now the largest minority group in the
United States.

Hector Flores, president of the League of United Latin American Citizens, said
that part of the movement is unfolding. "The message is 'Today we march,
tomorrow we vote,' " he said. Organizations registered thousands to vote at
Sunday's march in Dallas.

Flores said he could answer the people who ask, "Why now?" The House bill
introduced by Judiciary Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) "is
touching a nerve, man," he said. "It's raw." Flores said the bill threatens to
tear apart the family unit, the fabric that holds Latinos together.

"How do you tell the children of undocumented workers who are fighting in Iraq
that we're going to deport your parents and your grandparents?" Flores said.
"I'm a fifth-generation Mexican American  --  there's no distinction between
them and me."

Still, along march routes yesterday there were some voices of those opposed to
illegal immigration. In Phoenix, state Rep. John Allen (R) held a sign that said
"Governor, I'll hold them off, you get the National Guard."

"The question is, when do we stop this activity of illegal immigration?" he said
into a battery of cameras. "Right now, it's like Groundhog Day. You wake up
every day and there's more of them. It will be this way until we have a closed
border."

Many of the organizers said Spanish-language radio, television and newspapers
were instrumental not just in helping attract big crowds but for influencing the
look and tone of yesterday's rallies.

In Dallas, El Hispanic News covered plans for the march closely. In Los Angeles,
Eddie "Piolin" Sotelo, the city's top-rated disc jockey, and also a Mexican
immigrant who entered the United States in the trunk of a car in 1986, joined
with rival disc jockey Renan "El Cucuy" Almendarez Coello and others to pump up
the volume for the rally. They told people where to go, what to wear and what to
carry.

Alvaro M. Huerta, who helped organize the Los Angeles rally, said disc jockeys
helped spread the word to carry American flags and to wear white shirts as a
symbol of peaceful protest.

"We have to give the community credit," he said. "They saw the TV, heard the
radio. We expect most people to come with the American flag. We're also here to
show our love for the country."

But labor, church and community organizations also helped put together
yesterday's nationwide demonstrations. "It was not an overnight thing," said
Maria Elena Durazo of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor and an
organizer of rallies there yesterday and last month.

The Rev. Michael Kennedy of La Placita Catholic Church, which was ground zero
for yesterday's candlelight vigil in Los Angeles, drew a parallel between the
recent marches and the civil rights movement in the South in the 1950s and
1960s.

"It's the same thing when Rosa Parks got arrested," he said. "People have been
offended, their dignity has been offended. I've been around here since 1984 and
I've never seen anything like it."

Kennedy's church prepared a PowerPoint presentation on the House bill that
church officials showed to parishioners and shared with unions and
immigrant-rights organizations. They also organized fasting and prayer vigils,
and with the help of hundreds of volunteers put out the word about the rally and
yesterday's vigil.

Among labor unions, the Service Employees International Union played a central
role in helping to organize rallies in a number of cities, including on the
Mall. "I think part of the message that is being sent to members of Congress and
both political parties is that people are organized and they're paying
attention," said Avril Smith, an SEIU spokeswoman.

Amelia Frank-Vitale, a march organizer with the labor union Unite Here, said
local groups worked for months to organize a march in Phoenix two weeks ago that
drew 20,000 people. National organizations got involved after the success of
that march, she said.

"I do believe the last series of events really changed the discourse in
Washington from being solely about enforcement to issues of humanity," she said.
"Today, most legislators are back in their home towns. These marches are to
speak to them. We're not going away."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              110 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 15, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Dulles Chamber Takes On Immigration Policy

BYLINE: Elissa Silverman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Fairfax Extra; T08 , Fairfax business Notebook

LENGTH: 565 words


A delegation of business leaders from the Herndon Dulles Chamber of Commerce
trekked to Capitol Hill this week to talk about immigration policy, advocating
an expanded guest-worker program as well as increased security measures at the
nation's borders.

"We saw the problem, and we decided that immigration is something we would like
to take on," said Eileen Curtis, the group's president and chief executive.

Herndon has become a focal point for immigration activists of all stripes, ever
since the town of 22,000 in western Fairfax County began deliberations earlier
this year over whether to locate a publicly funded center for day laborers, some
of whom are undocumented, near the Loudoun County border. The center was
scheduled to begin operating this week.

The debate over day laborers has roiled Herndon and attracted national attention
from organizations such as the National Council of La Raza, which advocates for
Hispanics, and the Minuteman Project, which works to combat illegal immigration
in part by using cameras and other techniques to monitor the comings and goings
of laborers as well as contractors and homeowners who hire them.

Curtis and her fellow business community emissaries decided to steer clear of
the local day-laborer debate.

For instance, when meeting  with Northern Virginia Republican Reps. Frank R.
Wolf and Thomas M. Davis III, they focused on an immigration bill sponsored by
Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) that would clamp down on the hiring of
undocumented workers.

The Herndon Dulles chamber has not taken a position on the day-laborer center,
Curtis said, because the local decision making has mostly centered on land use.

Plus, she said, "typically, we're the glue that ties the community together,"
and the chamber doesn't want to show any preference toward local businesses that
might or might not choose to hire the day workers.

"The feeling of some of our board members is that we should not assume a direct
corollary between the two," Curtis said. "We wanted to treat them as two
separate issues."

Curtis said that she believes some type of guest-worker program is crucial to
keeping the western Fairfax economy booming. "In order to sustain the vitality
of the community, you have to have a sufficient workforce," she said.

A majority of small-business owners in Virginia reported business conditions as
"good" and were optimistic about healthy sales and profits, according to a
report released last week by the Virginia chapter of the National Federation of
Independent Business.

Sixty-one percent of those surveyed had a "good" outlook for business over the
next three months, but that number was slightly lower than small businesses
polled in Maryland. "Small-business owners in Virginia are faring well overall
in today's economy, but they're not as optimistic in this post-Katrina
environment," said NFIB's Virginia state director, Gordon Dixon, in a statement
released with the poll.

*  Kenneth Lew has been promoted to managing director of Reston-based Noblestar,
an internet technology management consulting firm.

*  Gregory S. Capella has been named executive vice president and chief
operating officer of McLean-based InfoPro, a government contractor that provides
technology and software services.

Have news about business in Fairfax County? Send an e-mail to
silvermane@washpost.com or call 703-383-5103.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              111 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For Gates, A Visa Charge

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 751 words


When the Senate comes back to work next week, it is scheduled to take up the
issue of immigration. And that is what brought Bill Gates to Washington for a
rare visit last week.

The Microsoft billionaire does not love this capital, but he decided to add his
personal voice to his Washington office's lobbying effort to expand the number
of foreign-born computer scientists allowed to work in this country under a
special program known as H-1B visas.

In an interview sandwiched between his meetings on Capitol Hill, Gates told me
the "high-skills immigration issue is by far the number one thing" on the
Washington agenda for Microsoft and for the electronics industry generally.
"This is gigantic for us."

Since autumn 2003 Congress has limited the number of people admitted annually on
H-1B visas to 65,000. To qualify for such a visa, an applicant must have at
least a bachelor's degree, specialized knowledge and a job offer from a U.S.
employer. The visa is generally good for six years, with the possibility of
applying for extensions.

So great is the demand for such skills in the burgeoning high-tech world that in
August 2005 the last of the visas available for fiscal 2006 were issued. That
means a 14-month shutdown of the program, until October of this year. "It's kind
of ironic," Gates told me, "to have somebody graduate from Stanford Computer
Science Department and there's not enough H-1B visas, so they have to go back to
India. . . . And I have people who have been hired who are just sitting on the
border waiting."

The draft bill that Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter has been
preparing for floor consideration would expand the annual H-1B limit from 65,000
to 115,000. By excluding dependents (who now are counted against the cap) from
the total, it might mean the entry of as many as 300,000 people a year  --
one-tenth of 1 percent of the U.S. population.

As Gates said, these are highly paid, highly qualified individuals. Salaries for
these jobs at Microsoft start at about $100,000 a year. Their counterparts can
be hired more cheaply in China or India, he said, but Microsoft does 85 percent
of its research and development work in the United States because it wants its
computer scientists interacting directly with its program managers and its
marketing people on its own campus.

Gates said he has a hard time understanding the logic of those who decry the
outsourcing of American jobs yet are reluctant to facilitate bringing the
high-skill people who are catalysts for economic growth to this country. "People
just shake their heads at what kind of a central planning system would say
having 65,000 smart people come in, that's okay, but 70,000 smart people, no."

President Bush and his administration support the expansion of H-1B visas. And
Gates, in turn, is enthusiastic about the White House and bipartisan
congressional efforts to boost the teaching of math and science in American high
schools with the long-term goal of expanding the supply of qualified Americans
for these jobs.

He is backing that effort both with gifts of technology from the company and
grants of $300 million a year from his foundation for innovation in high
schools. "But the benefit of things like that has got a fair time lag," he said,
"and the next four or five years, it really hangs in the balance: how many of
these talented people we want to hire, and who want to come here, can we hire?"

The answer is by no means certain. Opposition to the H-1B program grew during
the dot-com bust, when groups representing domestic electrical engineers and
computer technicians argued that foreigners were taking away their jobs. In 2003
they succeeded in cutting the quota by two-thirds, from 195,000 to 65,000, and
they continue to oppose its expansion.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that unemployment among computer and
mathematical operators is less than 3 percent. Gates said, "If you're graduating
from a reasonable university in this country, with a degree in computer science,
you have many job offers."

Still, there is reluctance  --  especially in the House of Representatives  --
to lift the ceiling on H-1B visas in an election year.

The House has responded to public pressure to close the borders to illegal
immigration and seems incapable of distinguishing that problem from the value of
encouraging high-skill workers to bring their talents to the United States.

That's why Bill Gates comes to Washington.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              112 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

'Guest Workers' Won't Work;
A Path to Permanent Citizenship Would Benefit Everyone

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 942 words


The conventional wisdom is all but unanimous, so much so that even those who
hold the opposing view pay homage to it. Sure, some people dispute even the
notion that we need foreign workers to keep the U.S. economy growing. But among
those who recognize the necessity of a continued flow of immigrants to do dirty,
unskilled jobs that educated Americans increasingly no longer want to do, the
mantra goes unquestioned: What's needed is a guest worker program to deliver
this labor in a timely, efficient way.

But the conventional wisdom is wrong, and as the Senate debates immigration in
the weeks to come, members would do well to reexamine the assumption. The last
thing the United States needs is an inflexible guest worker plan.

It isn't hard to understand where the idea came from or why it's popular in
Washington. Policymakers from George W. Bush to Sens. John McCain, John Cornyn
and Edward Kennedy grasp that the main problem with our immigration system is
the lack of visas for foreign workers. International supply and demand  --
demand created by U.S. labor needs  --  generate a flow of roughly 1.5 million
immigrants a year. But our annual immigration quotas accommodate less than
two-thirds of that number, producing an annual spillover of about a half-million
illegal workers that erodes the rule of law and undermines our security.

The logical remedy: to provide these additional workers with visas and allow
them to enter the country in a lawful, dignified way. The only problem:
Policymakers are afraid the public would reject such a large increase in
permanent immigration. So even those who have been most courageous in promoting
reform talk instead about temporary visas. Bush and Cornyn would require
foreigners to go home at the end of their work stints. McCain and Kennedy would
allow some workers to stay permanently, but they, too, call their proposal a
temporary worker program, and many of those who support their package  --
including myself  --  have gone along in adopting the term.

The problem with the guest worker idea starts with practicality: Appealing as it
sounds to some, a time-limited program will not work. The adage is true: There
is nothing more permanent than a temporary worker. Many of those who come to the
United States for short stints will want to stay on when their visas expire,
perpetuating the underground economy that the program is supposed to eliminate.

This isn't just speculation  --  look at the reality today. True enough, many
young foreign workers initially come to the United States for what they think
will be a short visit, and many do go home after a few years. But unlike past
such workers, an increasing number are now staying on. This is partly a result
of U.S. policy: Our efforts to fortify the border have made it harder for people
to travel back and forth. But other, deeper forces are at work. The traditional
flow of migrant farmworkers  --  truly seasonal laborers, usually single men  --
is giving way to a more diverse stream: both men and women, often with families,
less rooted at home and more open to the lure of life in America.

Meanwhile, growing immigrant communities have made settling here a more
attractive choice. Of some 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States,
only 2.4 million are single men, while nearly half are couples and many have
children. Legal migrants are even more rooted.

The bottom line: It won't help to bring our quotas more into line with the size
of the immigrant flow if we don't also craft a policy in keeping with the way
these workers behave  --  and today that means accepting the reality that many
will want to settle permanently in the United States.

But that's not all. Admitting foreign workers on a strictly temporary basis
would also violate American traditions  --  our democratic values and our
history as a nation of immigrants  --  and it would be deeply unpopular with the
voting public.

The Manhattan Institute and the National Immigration Forum recently conducted a
series of focus groups testing two contrasting options: a guest worker program
or a more traditional immigration plan based on the idea of citizenship. The
results ran sharply counter to the expectations of policymakers in Washington.
Democrats and Republicans alike overwhelmingly preferred the citizenship model
for reasons of both principle and practicality. It might make sense initially,
these voters said, to admit workers on a provisional basis. It might also make
sense to create incentives for the more transient to go home at the end of their
work stints. But if they worked hard, put down roots and invested in their
communities, wouldn't we want to encourage them to stay? Don't we want
immigrants to assimilate? Don't we want to attract the kind of hard-working,
committed folks who plan for the future and invest?

The answer is, of course, that we do. This isn't just the American way, it's
also the antidote to many of our worst fears about immigration: Sojourners with
no stake in the future are going to be much less likely to learn English or buy
their own homes or make an effort to move up on the job.

Sure, a citizenship plan looks like a bigger gamble; like the workers, the
changes that come with it will be permanent. But surely it would be better to
face up to that change and shape it in a way consistent with our values. Rather
than a one-size-fits-all guest worker program, we need a system that leaves room
for workers to choose, welcoming those who feel they belong and who work their
way up and make our country stronger as they do.

Tamar Jacoby is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              113 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Help Wanted as Immigration Faces Overhaul;
Congress Considers New Rules, and Businesses Worry About Finding Workers

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita Krissah Williams, and

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1450 words


Year after year, Professional Grounds Inc. runs a help-wanted ad to find
landscapers and groundskeepers. Starting wage: $7.74 per hour.

In a good year, three people call. Most years, no one does.

So the Springfield company relies on imported labor  --  seasonal guest workers
allowed to immigrate under the federal guest-worker program  --  to keep itself
running. For 10 months this year, 23 men from Mexico and Central America will
spend their days mulching and mowing, seeding and sodding for Professional
Grounds.

Occasionally, company President Bill Trimmer asks himself: If I doubled wages,
would native-born Americans apply? He thinks he knows the answer.

"I don't think it's a wage situation. It's the type of work and the nature of
the work. It's hard, backbreaking work," said Trimmer, who started the company
31 years ago. "I think we're a more affluent society now. They expect more.
Everybody expects more. . . . I have contracts, and they want an affordable
price, too."

Here lies the dilemma facing Congress as it attempts an immigration overhaul.
Businesses say it is hard to persuade Americans to perform the unskilled jobs
that immigrants easily fill. Significantly higher wages might work, but that
increase would be passed on to unhappy consumers, forcing Americans to give up
under-$10 manicures and $15-per-hour paint and lawn jobs.

Yet against a backdrop of heightened scrutiny of those who cross U.S. borders
and the estimated 12 million migrants already here illegally, most everyone
agrees that the current immigration system warrants a severe makeover.

A recent study by the Pew Hispanic Center estimated that unauthorized immigrants
make up nearly 5 percent of the labor force. In the Washington region, they make
up nearly 10 percent of the 3.1 million-strong workforce, providing mainly
unskilled labor.

The federal government has a work visa  --  known as H-2B  --  that aims to help
unskilled migrants enter the country legally. But the government issues only
about 66,000 new H-2B visas each year. The guest workers, who generally take
jobs in businesses such as restaurants, amusement parks, cleaning companies and
landscaping firms, are allowed to stay for 10 months.

The immigration measure passed by the House last year would allow the
guest-worker program to lapse. Today, the Senate Judiciary Committee resumes
debating legislation proposed by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.). It would create a
new guest-worker program that would allow foreigners to enter the United States
for three years, with the possibility of renewal for another three years.

Both House and Senate plans place on employers the onus for verifying the legal
status of workers with the creation of a national database of Social Security or
work identification numbers. Besides requiring enforcement, the proposals would
impose criminal penalties on employers who hire someone not authorized to work
in the United States.

Under current law, companies must review two forms of government-issued
identification to verify that a job applicant is a legal resident. Beyond
keeping copies of IDs on file, many businesses say they do little more than take
workers at their word. While some readily dismiss illegal workers, they don't
necessarily report them and their whereabouts to the federal government.

Businesses say they already patrol job applications to sift out counterfeit
documents. At least four out of 10 applicants for jobs at Harry's Essential
Grille in Vienna present work documents that look like frauds, such as Social
Security cards that feel too thin, said Jason Steward, manager of the
restaurant.

"You have a gut feeling," Steward said. The company he works for, Essential
Restaurant Holdings LLC, has hired 200 people since opening its two Northern
Virginia restaurants 21/2 years ago. About half of its workers are immigrants.
He does not object to checking a Social Security number in a national database.
But he worries about being the first line of defense for the company. If he
messes up, Essential Restaurants could be fined or face criminal penalties under
some of the proposals before Congress.

Brett McMahon, vice president of Bethesda-based Miller & Long Concrete
Construction Co., one of the biggest concrete contractors in the country, with
$300 million in annual revenue, said his concern is that the legislation would
essentially turn his company into "an enforcer of who's legal and who's not."
McMahon said, "It's nowhere near that simple to check."

In the past 15 years, the Labor Department has audited McMahon's company five
times looking for illegal workers  --  each time finding none, McMahon said. He
added that the House bill threatens to bring his business to a "screeching halt"
because there is no provision for a guest-worker program or for dealing with the
undocumented immigrants already working.

But advocates of tighter borders say hiring foreigners should be difficult, not
just for security but to limit competition between less-skilled immigrants and
Americans.

"Employers in many of these sectors have gotten themselves into a Catch-22
situation where if they do not look the other way and hire illegal workers, they
will not be competitive with other businesses," said Jack Martin, a spokesman
for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, an advocacy group governed
by business leaders and activists favoring national immigration limits.

"The wages and working conditions where there are large numbers of illegal
workers have been driven down to the point where those jobs are not as
attractive to American workers," Martin said.

According to the Pew Hispanic Center data, undocumented workers tend to be
clustered in service and construction jobs and make up more than half of the
region's janitorial and landscape workers. Forty-three percent of the region's
construction workers are illegally in the United States or have only temporary
work authorization, the data show.

Wages for landscaping and groundskeeping workers in the Washington area have
risen slightly in recent years, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
from an average of $9.61 per hour in 1999 to $10.51 in 2004. Professional
Grounds' Trimmer said most employees, including guest workers, earn $9 to $11
per hour.

Construction wages in the Washington area have risen from an average of $15.86
in 1999 to $17.19 in 2004, according to the bureau. McMahon estimated that
construction wages these days are even higher  --  roughly $20 an hour, plus
health care.

"People think construction is about hiring day laborers in a Lowe's parking lot
and throwing them in a pickup and paying them $2 an hour," McMahon said.

The company has roughly 60 projects underway, including offices, hotels and
condominiums, and employs about 2,800 workers in the Washington area  --
three-fourths of them immigrants.

"Every time I put up a crane, they are the guys who show up," McMahon said.

At Professional Grounds' Springfield office, Trimmer said the guest-worker
program insulates him from having to deal with forged documents. Trimmer started
using the H-2B program about five years ago to fill the void left by high school
and college students who preferred air-conditioned summer internships over the
work he could offer.

The guest workers arrive in February or March and pay $40 a week for housing
subsidized by the company. A van picks up and drops off those who can't drive;
workers who have driver's licenses pay $3 per day for the use of a company car.
Workers pay income, Social Security and Medicare taxes.

One of his workers, Abelardo Flores, said he likes returning to his wife and
three children in Mexico after making money for 10 months. Two other workers,
Luciano Arango and Marcos Ochoa, said they would like to permanently live in the
United States someday. All said they had worked for the company last year.
Trimmer cited investments he makes in the guest workers, from English classes to
housing, as proof that he views them as more than cheap labor.

Once, Trimmer confessed, he did hire an illegal worker: a Nicaraguan man named
Victor Parrales on a tourist visa.

Next week will mark Parrales's 22nd year with the company; Professional Grounds
sponsored his green card, and he eventually became a citizen. Parrales now owns
a house in Alexandria and boasts the title of vice president.

A piece of paper taped to Parrales's office door advertises that Professional
Grounds needs more workers. In fact, the company says it will pay workers who
bring forward qualified candidates a $1,000 referral fee.

Staff writers Dana Hedgpeth, Neil Irwin, Cecilia Kang and Michael S. Rosenwald
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              114 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Divides Allies;
Guest-Worker Plan Sets Democratic Supporters Against Organized Labor

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 1108 words


New economic research that pits native-born workers against low-skilled
immigrants in a struggle for jobs and wages has fueled a rift between some of
Washington's most liberal lawmakers and their allies in economics and labor, who
fear that the Democratic Party is pushing an immigration policy that forsakes
the party's working-class mainstay.

The quarrel comes as the Senate debates a proposal to bring millions of
immigrants into the legal workforce. A growing body of economic research
contends that the recent surge of foreign workers has depressed wages for
low-skilled workers, especially for high school dropouts, and has even begun
displacing native-born workers. That benefits employers, higher-income consumers
and the economy at large, but it may exacerbate the problems of the working
class.

"What immigration really does is redistribute wealth away from workers toward
employers," said George J. Borjas, an economist at Harvard University's John F.
Kennedy School of Government.

As with so many economic quandaries, other researchers have come to virtually
the opposite conclusion. Those economists maintain that an expanding economy,
spurred in part by plentiful low-wage labor, has created more jobs on the bottom
of the income chain, absorbing the new immigrants with little or no impact on
wages.

But the work of Borjas and other economists is becoming a wedge in the
Democratic Party. Citing Borjas's work, Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) denounced
the Senate immigration bill yesterday, saying: "This is clearly a corporate
strategy to keep wages low. It clearly will replace the jobs of American
workers."

At  issue is a guest-worker provision that would allow hundreds of thousands of
foreign workers legal access to the U.S. labor market each year and the impact
those new low-wage workers would have on stagnant wages. An unusual coalition of
business groups, immigration advocates and labor unions with large immigrant
memberships have come together to support the guest-worker program proposed by
Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.).

Kennedy, the Senate's liberal lion and an unflagging ally of organized labor,
says the legislation he co-wrote would help all low-wage workers by applying
minimum-wage laws and other workplace protections to immigrants and undocumented
workers, who are often exploited.

The AFL-CIO and many economists strongly disagree.

Guest-worker programs "cast workers into a perennial second-class status and
unfairly put their fates into their employers' hands, creating a situation ripe
for exploitation," AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney said this week. "They
encourage employers to turn good jobs into temporary jobs at reduced wages and
diminished working conditions and contribute to the growing class of workers
laboring in poverty."

Over the past decade, economists such as Borjas have examined the impact of a
surge of illegal immigration on wages and the economy at large.  Most agree that
the influx has had a small but positive impact on the national economy, holding
down consumer prices, improving the productivity of the workforce and increasing
demand for goods and services.

Upper-middle-class consumers can dine at restaurants, stay at hotels, and have
their cars hand-washed and their house windows cleaned for far less than they
would without illegal immigration. An abundant supply of low-wage workers may
have spurred more investment in labor-intensive businesses. Giovanni Peri, an
economist at the University of California at Davis, estimates that immigration
in the 1990s actually boosted the average wage of native workers by 1.1 percent.

"The fact is the economies of Texas, Illinois, California, New York, and half
the country would collapse if tomorrow we could click our fingers and have every
undocumented worker out of the country," said Steven M. Ladik, an immigration
lawyer with Jenkens & Gilchrist in Dallas. "Construction, hospitality, the
medical industry, manufacturing  --  all these key segments of our economy are
dependent upon these people."

But some of those macroeconomic gains have come at the expense of low-wage
workers, especially the 10 percent of the labor force that dropped out of high
school. In recent years, competition from low-skilled immigrant workers has
reduced the wages of high school dropouts by as much as 8 percent, Borjas said.
For a worker earning $20,000 a year, such a drop can be substantial.

Looking at annual earnings, the percentage losses are in the double digits, said
Andrew Sum, director of Northeastern University's Center for Labor Market
Studies, because jobs that once provided year-round employment are increasingly
becoming temporary.

A Northeastern University study found that nearly 86 percent of all newly
employed workers hired from 2000 to 2005 were immigrants. For men, the
statistics were more stark. In that time, the labor market for men rose by 2.66
million while 2.77 million foreign-born men found work. In other words, Sum
said, immigrants have begun replacing native-born male workers.

"Young guys are being displaced by immigrants," he said. "Some of my good
liberal friends take issue, but if you're a young worker under 25, poorly
educated, probably African American, the higher the share of new immigrants in
your community, the worse your employment prospects are becoming."

Critics say competition for low-wage jobs would only increase under the
legislation approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee this week, which would
not only allow undocumented workers to find lawful jobs but would also offer
400,000 temporary work visas annually to foreign workers.

"What they're doing is increasing the pool of people eligible to compete for the
very limited resources that are available for people at the bottom," said Carol
M. Swain, a political scientist and law professor at Vanderbilt University. "The
obligation of the nation should be for the people who have been here for
decades."

Not all economists see it that way. David Card, an economist at the University
of California at Berkeley, said the recent surge of low-wage immigration has had
virtually no impact on wages. That may be because the presence of abundant,
low-skilled workers has allowed companies to expand to absorb them. Higher
profits at a restaurant allows an owner to open another one. Ethan G. Lewis, an
economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, suggested that companies
are forsaking adoption of new technologies in favor of old-fashioned labor  --
a trend that would help absorb low-skilled immigrants but could hurt innovation
and high-wage work in the long run.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              115 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Most See Visa Program as Severely Flawed

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 962 words


Somewhere in the debate over immigration and the future of illegal workers,
another, less-publicized fight is being waged over those who toil in
air-conditioned offices, earn up to six-figure salaries and spend their days
programming and punching code.

They are foreign workers who arrive on H-1B visas, mostly young men from India
and China tapped for skilled jobs such as software engineers and systems
analysts. Unlike seasonal guest workers who stay for about 10 months, H-1B
workers stay as long as six years. By then, they must obtain a green card or go
back home.

Yesterday, the House Judiciary Committee heard testimony for and against
expanding the H-1B program. This week, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved
legislation that would increase the H-1B cap to 115,000 from 65,000 and allow
some foreign students to bypass the program altogether and immediately get
sponsored for green cards, which allow immigrants to be permanent residents,
free to live and work in the United States.

But underlying the arguments is a belief, even among the workers themselves,
that the current H-1B program is severely flawed.

Opponents say the highly skilled foreign workers compete with and depress the
wages of native-born Americans.

Supporters say foreign workers stimulate the economy, create more opportunities
for their U.S. counterparts and prevent jobs from being outsourced overseas. The
problem, they say, is the cumbersome process: Immigrants often spend six years
as guest workers and then wait for green card sponsorship and approval.

At the House committee hearing yesterday, Stuart Anderson, executive director of
the National Foundation for American Policy, a nonprofit research group, spoke
in favor of raising the cap. Still, he said in an interview, the H-1B visa is
far from ideal. "What you want to have is a system where people can get hired
directly on green cards in 30 to 60 days," he said.

Economists seem divided on whether highly skilled immigrants depress wages for
U.S. workers. In 2003, a study for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta found no
effect on salaries, with an average income for both H-1B and American computer
programmers of $55,000.

Still, the study by Madeline Zavodny, now an economics professor at Agnes Scott
College in Decatur, Ga., concluded "that unemployment was higher as a result of
these H-1B workers."

In a working paper released this week, Harvard University economist George J.
Borjas studied the wages of foreigners and native-born Americans with
doctorates, concluding that the foreigners lowered the wages of competing
workers by 3 to 4 percent. He said he suspected that his conclusion also
measured the effects of H-1B visas.

"If there is a demand for engineers and no foreigners to take those jobs,
salaries would shoot through the roof and make that very attractive for
Americans," Borjas said.

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA says H-1B salaries are
lower. "Those who are here on H-1B visas are being worked as indentured
servants. They are being paid $13,000 less in the engineering and science
worlds," said Ralph W. Wyndrum Jr., president of the advocacy group for
technical professionals, which favors green-card-based immigration, but only for
exceptional candidates.

Wyndrum said the current system allows foreign skilled workers to "take jobs
away from equally good American engineers and scientists." He based his
statements about salary disparities on a December report by John Miano, a
software engineer, who favors tighter immigration controls. Miano spoke at the
House hearing and cited figures from the Occupational Employment Statistics
program that show U.S. computer programmers earn an average $65,000 a year,
compared with $52,000 for H-1B programmers.

"Is it really a guest-worker program since most people want to stay here? Miano
said in an interview. "There is direct displacement of American workers."

Those who recruit and hire retort that a global economy mandates finding the
best employees in the world, not just the United States. And because green-card
caps are allocated equally among countries (India and China are backlogged, for
example), the H-1B becomes the easiest way to hire foreigners.

It is not always easy. Last year, Razorsight Corp., a technology company with
offices in Fairfax and Bangalore, India, tried to sponsor more H-1B visas  --
but they already were exhausted for the year. Currently, the company has 12 H-1B
workers on a U.S. staff of 100, earning $80,000 to $120,000 a year.

Charlie Thomas, Razorsight's chief executive, said the cap should be based on
market demand. "It's absolutely essential for us to have access to a global
talent," he said. "If your product isn't the best it can be with the best cost
structure and development, then someone else will do it. And that someone else
may not be a U.S.-based company."

Because H-1B holders can switch employers to sponsor their visas, some workers
said they demand salary increases along the way. But once a company sponsors
their green cards, workers say they don't expect to be promoted or given a
raise.

Now some H-1B holders are watching to see how Congress treats the millions of
immigrants who crossed the borders through stealthier means.

Sameer Chandra, 30, who lives in Fairfax and works as a systems analyst on an
H-1B visa, said he is concerned that Congress might make it easier for
immigrants who entered the U.S. illegally to get a green card than people like
him. "What is the point of staying here legally?" he said.

His Houston-based company has sponsored his green card, and Chandra said he
hopes it is processed quickly. If it is not, he said, he will return to India.
"There's a lot of opportunities there in my country."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              116 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Quiet on Immigration Bill Veto;
At Mexico Summit, President Reiterates Desire for Guest Worker Program

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: CANCUN, Mexico March 31


President Bush, concluding a summit with his counterparts from Mexico and
Canada, refused to say Friday whether he would veto an immigration bill that did
not include a guest worker program. The two-day event left unresolved the
persistent immigration and trade issues that have strained long-friendly
relations among the three nations.

"I want a comprehensive bill," Bush said at a joint news conference with Mexican
President Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper. In a series of
meetings, the three leaders agreed to a coordinated effort to modernize border
security, build on their substantial trade ties and prepare for a possible bird
flu pandemic.

Canada and the United States also agreed to work together to implement a law
passed by Congress requiring a passport or similar document for crossing the
borders between the United States and its northern and southern neighbors.

Canadians, in particular, have objected to the U.S. plan to require the special
identification cards, saying it would hinder tourist and commercial traffic.
Bush has asked Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to work with his
counterpart in Canada to ensure that the card is developed in a way that
expedites the flow of people and commerce in and out of the United States while
ensuring that criminals stay out.

"Envision a card that can be swiped across a reading device that facilitates the
movement of people," Bush said.

The three leaders also agreed to convene a joint committee of business leaders
to make recommendations to improve the competitiveness of North America, which
is facing serious economic challenges from China, India and elsewhere.

"We face prosperity challenges from abroad like never before," Bush said.

The modest achievements that resulted from the annual meeting of North American
leaders matched the diminished expectations for the gathering, particularly in
Mexico and the United States. When Bush took office more than five years ago,
his close relationship with Fox seemed to symbolize a new era in relations
between the two nations.

"Five years ago, there was a much different picture," Stephen Johnson, a
researcher with the conservative Heritage Foundation, said in a telephone
interview from Washington. Then, Fox and Bush "were very much upbeat about the
possible areas of cooperation and collaboration."

But the attention of the United States quickly shifted in the wake of the Sept.
11, 2001, attacks, ushering in an era when Mexicans viewed the United States
with increasing skepticism. Now, with Fox in the final months of his presidency
and Bush struggling with low approval ratings, the two are not even in position
to decisively shape the biggest ongoing issue between the two countries: illegal
immigration.

The Senate is debating proposals to revamp immigration policy by both tightening
border security and creating a new guest worker program that would offer legal
status to the estimated 11 million undocumented workers in the United States.
The House, meanwhile, passed a bill late last year that would crack down on
illegal immigration and contained no provision for a guest worker program.

Harper took office earlier this year, and the summit offered him his first
opportunity as the leader of Canada to meet with Bush. The 46-year-old economist
won power in part by promising to improve relations with the United States,
which had been strained under his two predecessors largely because of the war in
Iraq.

In his public comments here, Harper emphasized the historically close
relationship between Canada and the United States, its largest trading partner.
But he also emphasized his desire to resolve a long-standing dispute over U.S.
tariffs on Canadian softwood lumber, one of its largest exports to the United
States.

Despite rulings to the contrary by international trade panels, the United States
says that Canada subsidizes its softwood lumber exports in violation of world
trade rules.

"If we don't see a resolution, Canada is certainly going to continue to pursue
all its legal options, as well as enhanced support for our industry, through
this battle,'' Harper said.

Bush left Cancun at midday for his Texas ranch, where he was scheduled to spend
the weekend before returning to Washington on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              117 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Police Raise Awareness Of Human Trafficking

BYLINE: Ernesto Londono, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T03

LENGTH: 622 words


Montgomery County detectives investigating prostitution cases are keeping an eye
out for ledgers, foreign accents and sleeping quarters in brothels  --  some of
the telltale signs of human trafficking.

Likewise, officers responding to domestic violence or runaway calls are asking
pointed questions in an effort to identify whether some of the people they
encounter may be enslaved.

In the past, Montgomery officers generally wouldn't ask people whether they had
access to their passport, whether they lived with their employer or whether they
owed money to their boss, police chief J. Thomas Manger said.

"Now officers ask the right questions to determine if there's a trafficking
element to the case," Manger said, noting that every officer on his force has
received training on the subject, a relatively new but growing concern among law
enforcement officials.

The State Department estimates that between 600,000 to 800,000 people are
trafficked across national borders each year, many into the United States.
Experts in the subject say thousands of trafficking victims  --  people who are
coerced into prostitution or other unreasonable forms of labor they can't easily
escape from  --  go undetected in the United States, especially in areas with
large immigrant communities.

"I don't think we've seen the tip of the iceberg," said state Del.  Joanne S.
Parrott (R-Harford), the author of a bill that is being studied by the House
Judiciary Committee and will probably be reintroduced next session. "It's such a
new topic. Part of this is getting the word out. Some of these things may be
happening in lovely homes in suburbia. It could be anybody's neighborhood."

Parrott and other lawmakers are trying to pass legislation to fight what they
describe as an insidious  --  if largely invisible  --  phenomenon. Although
human trafficking and slavery are federal crimes, state legislators say adding
them to Maryland's penal code would provide local law enforcement officials with
a valuable tool to bring traffickers to justice, Parrott said.

Parrott's bill mirrors the federal Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000,
which, among other things, created a special visa category for such victims.
Twelve other states have since passed legislation to fight human trafficking,
said Bradley Myles, national program coordinator for Polaris Project, a
nonprofit group that monitors the practice.

The Department of Justice prosecuted 29 human trafficking cases in fiscal 2004,
roughly as many as it had prosecuted during the previous three years. Four of
those cases have involved Montgomery County defendants.

Most of the victims in the local cases were brought to the country to work as
domestic servants. One involved a Ghanaian woman from Takoma Park who was
sentenced to five years in prison last year after a jury determined that she
illegally forced a nanny to work seven days a week without pay.

Elizabeth Keyes, a lawyer who specializes in domestic workers and trafficked
people at CASA of Maryland, a nonprofit advocacy group in Silver Spring, said
she is investigating 11 cases that appear to involve human trafficking.

"The cases just walk through our door," Keyes said. "They're from a range of
places: Africa, South Asia, South America. All are women. The vast majority are
young."

But advocates for trafficking victims say the county needs to focus more effort
and resources on identifying victims and prosecuting traffickers.

"The good Samaritans in these cases are very important," said Jeredine Williams,
executive director of Migrant and Refugee Cultural Support Inc., a Silver Spring
group that recently announced a campaign called Voice of the Victim to combat
trafficking in the county.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              118 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        March 28, 2006 Tuesday 01:00 PM

Opinion Focus

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Washington Post Columnist

LENGTH: 3082 words

HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post opinion columnist Eugene Robinson was online Tuesday,
March 28, at 1 p.m. ET to discuss his recent columns and anything else that's on
your mind.


Washington Post opinion columnist

Eugene Robinson was online

Tuesday, March 28, at 1 p.m. ET to discuss his recent columns and anything else
that's on your mind.

Today's column:
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/27/AR2006032701302.
html" target=" Decency to 'Those People' , ( <i>Post, March 28, 2006

The transcript follows.

____________________

Eugene Robinson: Hello, everyone, and welcome. Or maybe it should be
"Bienvenidos." I'll be here for an hour or so to talk about the week's columns
(today, the immigration debate; last Friday, the downfall of presidential
adviser Claude Allen) or whatever else you'd like to get into.

_______________________

Los Angeles, Calif.: I just finished reading today's column. I think you have a
valid point about remembering that illegal immigrants are people. But I think
you're missing the overall point: The sheer mass of illegal aliens -- especially
in California and the rest of the Southwest -- is overwhelming the healthcare
system, the schools, the jails, and the roads. You're also missing the point
that they're here illegally. It's not just about being without papers. It's the
fact that they are acting unlawfully just by crossing the border.

I think that you'll find that most people are pro-immigration. I am. Most people
-- and I -- simply want it done legally, in numbers that we can handle, so that
we know who is actually coming. The vast majority of illegal aliens want to work
hard and make a living. But no one can deny that a large number of others come
too, people like MS-13 gang members, drug dealers, other criminals, and probably
terrorists as well.

I think you're correct about remembering people's humanity. But let's talk about
the whole problem, not just the individual pieces.

Eugene Robinson: Thanks, L.A., and you raise some good points. The stuff about
the gangs isn't really germaine to the debate, in my view -- nobody wants to let
violent criminals into the country, and it isn't as if there aren't already
native-born violent criminals here. Yes, I know the flow of immigrants is a
strain on the border states, and I'm planning to come out and take a look for
myself in the next week or two. But most of the illegals are law-abiding
workers, and economists differ on their impact on the economy but nobody claims
that it's a drain, overall. Maybe we need to find some way to ease the strain
along the border. But I don't think we're going to deport 12 million people.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: So why doesn't "dealing with them as human beings" involve
expecting them to comply with the law? Illegal immigrants drive down wages and
worker protections, which hurts the legal working class in this country.
Unemployment in the inner cities would be much easier to address, for instance,
if employers didn't have the easy option of hiring undocumented immigrants. You
need to look beyond your azaleas and consider your community.

Eugene Robinson: First, we should raise the minimum wage substantially -- for
everyone. I suppose you could argue that if there were no illegal immigrants in
the country at all, maybe employers would have to pay more for unskilled labor.
But I don't see mass deportation of millions as a real-world option, and I don't
see a lot of other people necessarily competing for the jobs the illegal
immigrants now occupy.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Robinson,

Thanks for taking a step back and calling for some decency in this debate. I
appreciate the sentiment deeply.

My question-do you think if 9/11 had not happened that this issue would have
stirred up such a heated debate? Was this inevitable, specifically some of the
anger and frustration that is being exchanged?

Eugene Robinson: My view is that 9/11 may have contributed only insofar as it
has made Americans feel threatened about their way of life and their culture.
People fail to realize that American culture is a changing tapestry that has
been shaped, in large measure, by waves of immigrants -- some of whom have come
here in large numbers from places much more "alien" than Mexico.

_______________________

Chattanooga, Tenn.: Do you really think "those people" are going to be good
Americans when they insisted on carrying Mexican flags/

Eugene Robinson: Yep. How many Italian flags do you see on Columbus Day? Pride
in one's homeland does not equate to rejection of one's chosen land.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Eugene, have you heard any opinions or comments from African
Americans regarding the immigration protest and overall issue of immigration? On
one hand African Americans can see the racism of the anti-immigration side, but
on the other hand the status of legal immigrants may have a huge impact on the
economic status of African Americans and also relations between Blacks and
Latinos are not always so great.

Eugene Robinson: Great question, and I think you perfectly capture the
ambivalence that many African Americans feel about immigration. My view is that
it would be a mistake for us to blame our problems on illegal immigrants. Those
African Americans who have reached the middle class are not interested in the
jobs the immigrants are taking, and those who are struggling in the inner cities
perhaps should be competing for those jobs but aren't. Wages should be higher,
but the fact is that even at a time when inner-city black unemployment is
ridiculously high, young black men and women are not clamoring to enter, say,
the construction trades. Overall, I think African Americans and Latinos should
have a lot in common and should be able to form coalitions that would be
beneficial to both groups.

_______________________

State College, Pa.: Dear Mr. Robinson, it seems you don't really understand the
real problem with illegal immigration. Illegal immigration allows for Mexicans
to jump the line ahead of other immigrants from all over the world who are also
trying to come to the United States. As an African immigrant in the U.S. I had
to play by the rules which meant waiting six years for a visa, and going through
health screening. Mexicans are not that poor when compare to Africans, Asians or
Eastern Europeans or Arabs, if we follow the rules to come to this country why
can't they do to.

Eugene Robinson: I understand that. But who was it who said that "geography is
destiny"? That's not always true, but in this case the fact that Mexico shares a
long border with the United States is an important real-life factor. Millions of
Mexicans and other Latin Americans have come into the country illegally, and I
do not believe it is realistic to talk about sending them all home.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Robinson - would you be able to explain the racial
tensions among blacks and Hispanics on the est coast? Here in the East Coast
D.C. and NYC to be exact - blacks and Latinos pretty much live in harmony. I
also agree with another poster regarding the Mexican flags - it does appear
arrogant to wave the flags during protest - as if shunning America yet wanting
the same rights and benefits.

Eugene Robinson: I guess I can just say that I don't believe there's any natural
or illogical antagonism between blacks and Latinos. Yes, waving the Mexican
flags at a protest was provocative -- probably, deliberately so. The size and
fervor of the protests indicates to me that this is an issue many Latinos feel
passionately about.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I am just a little curious, lets say they do deport all the
illegal immigrants. What do they plan on doing with their U.S. citizen children?


Eugene Robinson: Good question. As you point out, children born here are U.S.
citizens, whether their parents came legally or not. Are we going to split up
families? Make special provision for those parents?

_______________________

Laurel Md.: I'd like to bet those Italians learned to speak English. Seems your
buddies don't want to assimilate to our culture and language. Have you given it
a thought as to how our school systems are being overburdened by immigrants.
Teachers don't get paid enough, now they have to deal with illegal kids. Save
the World. Why do I have to foot the bill?

Eugene Robinson: If there's one thing I feel most passionately in this whole
debate it's that American "culture" is not, and never has been, static or fixed.
That's the beauty of this country -- it embraces and adapts. Latino immigrants
are, too, learning to speak English. They just aren't abandoning their Spanish.

_______________________

Severn, Md.: Some of my in-laws are here illegally, but they are tax paying
(income, sales, property, commodity, excise, etc.), hard working, 12 to 13 year
residents of the U.S. They have been here so long they would be unable to
survive in their native lands. More importantly, they either have children born
or raised in the US. It is immoral, and should be criminal, to force a US
citizen child who was raised in the US to accompany his illegal parents back to
a society where it is not only dangerous to live but where the US citizen will
suffer economic hardship (not including psychological hardships). We are talking
about kids who are U.S. citizens or kids who came here at a very early age and
all they know is the U.S., our customs, our language, our culture, our
EVERYTHING. When does the government have the right to divide families over a
piece of paper? When does the government have the right to deport U.S. citizens?


Eugene Robinson: Well, I don't think the government would have that right, but
theoretically they could deport the parents and allow the children to stay. Your
family seems to fit a common pattern -- some people came legally, some didn't,
some were born here and are citizens... That makes it impossible, I think, to
adopt the simple-sounding solution of "just kick them out."

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: OK, so we get your point - we can't deport the millions of
illegal immigrants already here.

But shouldn't we get much, much tougher on border security now, both to lessen
the burden on the border states and to be fair to the immigrants from other
countries who play by the rules and follow the law?

Eugene Robinson: We certainly should get a handle on border security -- the
current system isn't working to anyone's advantage. I don't like the idea of a
Berlin Wall, but clearly the current situation on the border doesn't work to
anyone's best advantage. I do think there has to be some way to compensate the
border states, which really do have an undue burden put on their services.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: America is a nation of immigrants - we can agree on that. Over
the first 200 years of our country's existence, immigrants by and large have
tried to assimilate into our culture.

But is that happening with the rapid influx of Spanish-speaking immigrants? It
seems like that instead of becoming part of the melting pot, they are setting up
their own mini-cultures, separate and distinct from American culture.

That isn't good for America, is it?

Eugene Robinson: I disagree. I think that the historical process you have
described as assimilation is much more complicated than that. "Our culture" is
not something that was set in stone before any immigrants arrived. It's been
shaped by immigrants. I've read scholars who have argued, for example, that the
Ellis Island wave of immigration in the early 20th century introduced cultural
values and ideas that were instrumental in making possible the New Deal
transformation under Roosevelt.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Yesterday's Senate judiciary committee hearing had much less
demagoguery than I expected. Either the senators who want to throw red meat out
there were saving it for the full Senate, or Sen. Specter is a darn good
chairman, or something else. I doubt anything meaningful is going to come of the
debate, but it has been better than expected on some fronts.

Eugene Robinson: I, too, thought the committee hearing was conducted in more
reasoned tones than I had expected. I think things might get rougher on the
Senate floor, though, and it looks as if the House is going to insist on a
tougher approach. But we'll see.

_______________________

Richmond, Va.: I think we should not deal with this issue from a strictly
humanistic viewpoint because that does not define the problem.

I read Robert Samuelson from your paper, who weighs in on the societal and
economic costs and impacts of this issue.

I wish you would address those issues head on instead of warm and fuzzy but
largely tangential culture war opinions.

Eugene Robinson: I disagree that we should disregard the "humanistic approach,"
because these are, in fact, human beings and not statistics. I know that
Samuelson is among those who believe that illegal immigration is a huge problem
for this country, and he makes his case eloquently. I'm not one of those people,
though. Let's just raise the minimum wage, if it's a matter of immigrants taking
all the unskilled jobs that should go to native-born Americans. I think that
some of those who are most apoplectic about illegal immigration (not talking
about Samuelson, who doesn't get apoplectic) are really feeling threatened for
reasons that have nothing to do with economics. Large numbers of Latinos change
American culture. In today's world of instantaneous communication,
near-instantaneous travel and global competition, change and adaptation are
good. Stasis, like Europe has tried, is bad.

_______________________

Atlanta, Ga.: Your article was thought provoking. As Black Caribbean person, my
perspective is biased by my experiences. I know what it is to be a foreigner in
foreign land. I know what is not to the language and the customs of a new land.
I know what it means to be treated badly because I am Black (no one really cares
about MY national origin). I also know that not all of "those people" think
highly of Blacks from anywhere. Did you consider this when writing your article,
or is it a story for another time?

One of the things I'm very aware of when the U.S. is talking about immigration,
it's not talking about faces that look like mine. What say you?

Eugene Robinson: Thanks for bringing up the subject -- black people from the
Caribbean, Africa and elsewhere are immigrating to the United States in record
numbers. Relations between blacks and Latinos is, indeed, a subject for another
column. I wrote a highly critical column last year about a postage stamp issued
in Mexico with a gross Afro-Mexican caricature that looked like Sambo. That
reflected ignorance and insensitivity, in my view, but it wasn't intended as an
act of racism (even though to an African American, including me, there was no
other way to take it).

_______________________

Massillon, Ohio: Hi Mr. Robinson, I have a question about the recent tenure of
Ben Domenech with washingtonpost.com. I realize that after his plagiarism was
discovered and Domenech resigned on Friday, Jim Brady said he would have fired
him on Monday.

However, Mr. Brady also said that he had read everything Domenech had written
but that plagiarism is hard to spot. I agree that plagiarism may be hard to
spot, but Domenech had on the day of her funeral called Coretta Scott King a
communist and complained that George W. Bush attended her funeral. He had also
written a long piece in which he seemed to agree that one of the unintended
positive consequences of abortions is fewer black males alive to commit crimes.
Brady said that Domenech was hired because his writing was "provacative," and he
hoped to find another provocative conservative blogger.

Do you think "provocative" is a code for racist? Do you think the racist views
expressed by Ben Domenech should have disqualified him as a Post blogger? If so,
why didn't they?

Eugene Robinson: Couldn't resist one question about our erstwhile conservative
blogger. "Provocative" had better not mean racist, and if washingtonpost.com
intends to find someone else to blog from the conservative side, I hope and
expect it will be an actual journalist instead of a callow provocateur.

_______________________

Austin, Tex.: Is it even realistically possible for a laborer or construction
worker with no money, little education, and modest skills to immigrate to the
U.S. legally?

Eugene Robinson: Sounds like it would require a long wait, unless he or she were
a genius savant at writing computer code or something.

_______________________

Beaelton, Va.: "Give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to
breathe free . . ."

My ancestors came to the US under that mantra. They made this land a better
place to live. "Those people" you talk about have every right that my ancestors
did to contribute to this great nation of immigrants.

Forget these laws that restrict our country from "those people"--these laws that
are enforced by non-Native Americans. Make them U.S. citizens, period. Make them
pay for their citizenship with a token measure of good will, community service,
or whatever, but call them legal, give them social security numbers and welcome
them as fellow American citizens like our ancestors were.

My kids will learn Spanish and learn to play with and love "those people" where
ever they meet. I hope yours will, too.

Eugene Robinson: Except for Native Americans, that's how all of us came here.
Well, a good number of us were brought here in chain on slave ships, but your
point is exactly right -- this is a nation of immigrants, shaped by continuing
immigration. I believe that is a big part of this country's strength, and that
trying to become "Fortress America" will, in the long run, be disastrous.

Anyhow, folks, my time is up. Hasta luego, y que les vaya bien.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

In Herndon, Only Feet Away but Worlds Apart;
The Minutemen, Foes of Illegal Immigration, Turn Cameras to Their Cause

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman and Timothy Dwyer, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1190 words


The slate-gray light of a wintry morning hung over the 7-Eleven parking lot just
after sunrise yesterday when a murmur rippled through the crowd of men gathered
there: "Look, they are coming."

Heads turned in unison to a dozen people moving toward them on Elden Street in
Herndon. Although the men's clothing  --  work boots and bluejeans  --  revealed
them as day laborers, the new group wore warm winter coats and snug-fitting
gloves and carried cameras with long lenses, a camcorder, a couple of
walkie-talkies and a clipboard list of license plate numbers collected on
previous visits.

"The day is ruined. They're going to scare off the employers," Alex Aleman, a
32-year-old Honduran in a black ski cap, told his friends in Spanish. "When they
come, we don't eat."

It was the start of an almost-weekly ritual in this Northern Virginia town that
began in mid-October when locals who object to the informal day-laborer site
formed a Herndon branch of the Minuteman Project, a national group that actively
opposes illegal immigration.

The Minutemen train their lenses on contractors who drive to the lot at Elden
Street and Alabama Drive to hire the day laborers, many of whom are in the
country illegally. They say they plan to hand the photographs to the Internal
Revenue Service for investigation.

The two groups never speak. Separated by only a few feet, they are worlds apart.

A white van with green lettering on the side moved slowly down Alabama Drive.
The letters described services  --  painting, construction, remodeling  --  but
there was no company name. It was the third time it had circled the block in
about 25 minutes.

"Doug," called out George Taplin, the leader of the Minutemen, "there's that van
again. Did you get a picture?"

Doug Hillgreen lifted a camera hanging by a strap on his chest and snapped a
photo of the license plate number of the van.

He reached beneath his jacket, took out a pack of cigarettes and had a smoke.
Hillgreen, who works in telecommunications, said his son, 20, had lost two jobs
in the past two years  --  one at a sawmill and one in construction  --  because
his bosses hired day laborers.

"It's because of that and for security reasons," he said, explaining his
motivation for joining the Minutemen.

When he raised his camera to get a picture of the white van, the driver sped
off.

"Lisa," Taplin said, using his telephoto lens to zoom in on the license plate of
a truck backing out of a parking space at the 7-Eleven. "Did you get the license
plate of that white truck?"

As he called out the numbers, Lisa Turner wrote them down and then cross-checked
the plate number with the list of licenses from previous visits.

Turner, a mother of three young boys who was dressed in a red coat with black
hat and scarf, said she joined the group after meeting Taplin at her
chiropractor's office.

"They're getting free services," she said of the day laborers. "The employers
are breaking the law because they are not paying taxes on the wages."

The Minutemen and the men in search of work stood in the cold across the street
from each other, both waiting for employers to show up. But business was slow.
Sometimes five or 10 minutes would pass before another contractor pulled up.

Taplin used one lull to make a point he thought important.

"I don't care about them," he said as the laborers stared across at him. "I
don't mean I don't care about them on a human level, but on this issue. We are
interested in the employers."

Jose Abrego watched the man in the gray-and-black parka who seemed to be giving
instructions to the woman in the red coat with the clipboard.

"I think he's their leader," said Abrego, a 43-year-old father of five from
Honduras.

Behind Abrego, a community organizer began handing the day laborers maps to a
new county-funded hiring site that was approved by the Town Council after a
bitter, months-long debate. It's set to open next week. But most of the laborers
were enthralled by the sight of the Minutemen.

Aleman wondered whether someone was paying the Minutemen. How else could they
find the time to be snapping photos on a workday? Well, he added, unless they
were rich and had no need to work.

"Just imagine," he said with a frown. "They have all that money, and I'm
standing here with only  one dollar in my pocket."

Luis Hererra, 32, a Salvadoran who arrived four months ago, wanted to know
whether it was legal for the Minutemen to photograph people against their will.

"I'm in a foreign country now," Hererra said. "I don't know the laws here yet."
Then Hererra's voice trailed off as he noticed a crowd beginning to form around
an alcove near the entrance to the 7-Eleven. A contractor had quietly slipped in
there, out of sight of the Minutemen, and was beckoning to the workers.

"I need someone who knows how to grout," the contractor, a tall man with white
hair under a red baseball cap, announced in Spanish.

The workers pressed forward excitedly, then stopped short as the contractor held
up his hand, "But  --  it needs to be someone who can speak English."

There was a moment's silence. "I speak English," a young-looking man said
hesitantly. "But I've never done grouting. Do you need someone with a lot of
experience?"

"Yes," the contractor answered firmly. "This is going to be a very expensive
kitchen in a very expensive house. The work has to be done extremely well."

"I have lots of experience, but no English," a man in a white sweat shirt said
miserably.

Hererra dug his hand into a pocket of his blue sweat jacket, clenching his fist
around a key chain with a picture of his 3-year-old daughter. She keeps asking
why he doesn't come home to tuck her in at night, and he hopes that someday
he'll be able to send her enough money to make her understand. But first he has
to pay off the $5,500 he borrowed to pay the smuggler who helped him across the
border.

"Maybe you could hire two of us  --  one who speaks English and one who knows
how to grout?" he asked with hope.

At 8:11 a.m., Taplin said: "Okay, we're done. Let's go."

The Minutemen had been on the street less than an hour, and Taplin told them to
head back to the nearby diner where they'd parked.

"Once we leave, that's when the contractors come around," Taplin said. "What
these guys don't know is that we have two guys who stay behind to take pictures
after the group leaves."

A few members departed when they reached the diner, but some went inside for
coffee. Hillgreen ordered an omelet. They talked about the complexity of illegal
immigration and the financial effect it has on their community. They complained
that the local, state and federal governments do nothing about illegal
immigrants except point fingers at one other. They said they are determined to
shine a light on the issue.

Hillgreen finished his omelet, and by 9:15 a.m. they were on the way out the
door. "Time to go to my real job," Hillgreen said.

They walked down the front steps of the diner, and Taplin glanced toward the
7-Eleven. A white pickup was surrounded by day laborers. "Look at that," Taplin
said, raising his camera for one final shot.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              120 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 11, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Who's Trying to Cross Our Southern Border? Everyone

BYLINE: Michael Flynn

SECTION: Outlook; B01

LENGTH: 1756 words


Last month, when President Bush was promoting what he called a "comprehensive
strategy" on border security to prevent "people from coming here in the first
place," few Americans had any doubt to whom the president was referring:
undocumented Mexicans. Ignored in the rhetoric, as well as in U.S. policy, is a
far more complex reality  --  that the southern border is no longer just a
border with Mexico. It is a global frontier that has become a conduit for
illegal immigrants from all over the world.

A snapshot of this reality was provided to me during a recent trip to Mexico
when officers from the International Organization for Migration (IOM), a group
committed to managing the global migration crisis, showed me a classified
official list of undocumented migrants held in Mexico City's migrant detention
center during one day last April. On that day the estación migratoria housed
some 630 people from nearly 60 countries  --  about a third of the nations in
the world  --  most of whom had hoped to use Mexico as a gateway to the United
States.

The U.S. response to this phenomenon has consequences for both Americans and
Mexicans, but most of all for the many migrants. By focusing its attention on
hardening its own borders, the United States leaves Mexico to shoulder a burden
not of its own making and does nothing to address the root causes of global
migration, including poverty at home. And Mexico's sometimes draconian attempts
to shift that burden jeopardize the lives of those who seek to cross the country
in search of a better future.

The reasons for this burgeoning problem are simple: More and more people from
the so-called global south  --  the nations of Africa, Central and Latin
America, and most of Asia  --  are abandoning their homelands to find better
lives elsewhere. Destination numero uno on many people's list is America. Unable
to go directly because of tight visa restrictions, they take what they see as
the next best route  --  through Mexico.

According to a report released in October by the U.N.'s Global Commission on
International Migration, the number of people living outside their country of
birth has doubled in the last 25 years to more than 200 million  --  or about
one in every 30 people on the planet. Most are "irregular migrants," who travel
without proper documents. According to the commission, these numbers will grow
inexorably because of the impact of globalization and growing disparities in
development between rich and poor countries.

Hidden in the U.N. numbers are the so-called transmigrants. When their plans to
cross a country are thwarted, there are often ugly consequences, as happened
recently in Morocco, which serves as a gateway to Europe for sub-Saharan
Africans. Stuck with thousands of unwanted people who had attempted to make
their way into the Spanish colonies of Ceuta and Melilla, Morocco dumped large
numbers of them in the desert.

A similar situation confronts Mexico. The stories I've heard about the people
who've passed through Mexico City's detention center in recent years read like a
brief history of the dark side of globalization: exotic dancers from Hungary and
Brazil who planned to earn cash in the strip joints of the city's Zona Rosa
before heading north; Iraqi Chaldeans fleeing religious persecution who had
hired a Lebanese smuggler based in Tijuana to help them get into the United
States; Ecuadoreans who had braved a 1,000-mile voyage in rickety boats, a
perilous border crossing in the region straddling Mexico and Guatemala, and the
depredations of "coyotes," or human traffickers, only to be detained a few miles
from the U.S. border; and Salvadoran gang members who work for burgeoning
criminal syndicates that use Mexico as a transit zone for their trade in guns,
drugs and people.

To deal with the burgeoning number of transmigrants, Mexico now maintains more
than 50 migrant detention centers across the country. In the city of Tapachula,
near the Mexico-Guatemala border, the government is putting the finishing
touches on what it touts as the largest migrant detention center in the
Americas.

Mexico's response to the growing problem is often similar to Morocco's. In one
case in 2002, which was a cause celebre among advocates in both Mexico and
Guatemala, authorities deported a group of migrants from India, who had
languished in the detention center for months, to Guatemala, where they spent a
further six months in another center. After one of the migrants committed
suicide, a Guatemalan judge ordered the rest released. All eventually made it to
the United States illegally.

Their case highlights a vexing problem of transmigration  --  of what to do
about migrants whose documentation is incomplete. Before deporting the Indians
to Guatemala, Mexico had unsuccessfully tried to establish their citizenship
through the Indian Embassy. When the Indian government refused to recognize
their citizenship, Mexican authorities sent them back to Guatemala, arguing that
they had entered Mexico from there.

A Mexican official told me that Mexico has ceased this particular deportation
practice. But the situation of many undocumented migrants in Mexico remains
precarious, with corruption in the ranks of Mexico's National Institute for
Migration (INM) and terrible conditions in many detention centers.

To its credit, Mexico has undertaken a number of steps to improve their
treatment, firing dozens of officials accused of corruption or of mishandling
migrants. In April, Mexico became only the second country in Latin America to
ratify a protocol to the U.N. Convention Against Torture that obliges member
states to set up monitoring mechanisms in places of detention. Mexico also
invited the Geneva-based IOM to open an office in Mexico City this year. Among
its activities, the IOM assists with the "voluntary return" of people from
outside the region and trains migration officials on how to deal with human
trafficking cases.

Significant challenges remain. According to Mexico's National Commission on
Human Rights, the country will have detained more than 200,000 undocumented
migrants by year's end. These numbers may well grow. In 1998, when Hurricane
Mitch struck Central America, Mexico was flooded with homeless Hondurans who had
abandoned their country and headed north. This year Central America was again
hit by devastating hurricanes and tropical storms, leaving thousands without
homes. Many of these people will likely head north if their lot doesn't improve.

Mexican officials argue that the United States is failing to do its share.
Topping their list of complaints is what they see as the double-talk of the Bush
administration.

For decades, Mexico's attitude toward transmigration was one of indifference,
its southern boundary with Guatemala and Belize jokingly referred to as la
frontera olvidada (the forgotten border).

But when the number of Central Americans entering the United States by way of
Mexico shot up in the 1980s and '90s, U.S. officials began applying pressure on
their Mexican counterparts to do something about it. During Bush's first term,
American officials promised Mexico a quid pro quo: If the Mexicans would shut
down the migrant route through their country, the United States would improve
the status of undocumented Mexicans in the United States.

This promise has been all but forgotten in Washington, but it has turned into a
political lightning rod in Mexico. Responding to a law signed by Bush in May
tightening immigration controls, Santiago Creel, a presidential candidate and
former interior minister in the administration of President Vicente Fox, said
that Mexico had received "absolutely nothing" in return for stemming migration
from other countries.

Mexican commentators also argue that many of the country's  problems stem from
U.S. policies. If the United States didn't give so much work to undocumented
immigrants, goes the argument, then Mexico wouldn't be flooded with migrants
from across the globe. Says Father Vladimiro Valdez, a Jesuit priest in Mexico
City and outspoken critic of both Mexican and U.S. immigration policies: "The
fact is, the United States needs illegal workers, and it needs them to remain
illegal because then they can continue to keep their wages low."

The politics of free trade, say critics like Valdez, have done little to improve
the situation of the poor. Some claim that NAFTA has become a tool used by the
United States to drive poor Mexican farmers off the land, thereby producing a
steady stream of cheap labor for U.S. agribusiness.

Regardless of whether one agrees, it seems clear that one of the North Atlantic
Free Trade Agreement's  key selling points  --  that it would create enough jobs
in Mexico to stem migration flows  --  has proven woefully off mark. Since the
agreement went into effect in 1994, the number of Mexicans who have managed to
establish themselves in the United States has nearly tripled, from an average of
277,000 per year during the 1990-95 period to a projected 750,000 this year.

These numbers point to a potential contradiction in Bush's policies, the
consequences of which the Mexicans will likely be left to deal with  --
hardening borders against migrants while pushing free trade agreements
throughout Central and South America that seem bound to exacerbate the problem
of migration.

Even when it comes to the little things, like aiding Mexico's effort to return
migrants to their home countries, the United States is often uncooperative.
Mexico could save thousands of dollars per flight if the United States allowed
the flights to go through its territory. However, according to the IOM, the
United States typically refuses for fear that migrants from places like China
will claim asylum once they land in the United States. (The State Department
says such transits were halted in 2003 because of concerns that terrorists could
exploit them.) When I asked Hermenegildo Castro, a senior official at the INM,
whether Mexico had a problem with U.S. intransigence, he diplomatically
demurred: "What we have in Mexico is a reality, and we have to work with that
reality." The first step the United States needs to take is to acknowledge that
reality, too, and recognize that the problem of transmigration stretches way
beyond our borders.

Author's e-mail: yammish@yahoo.com

Michael Flynn is a freelance writer based in Geneva. He received a grant from
the Washington-based Fund for Investigative Journalism to report on
transmigration from Mexico.

</body>

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              121 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 30, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 518 words


KNOXVILLE, Tenn.  --  Tennessee's driving certificate for illegal immigrants is
not valid as a form of identification, but people are paying hundreds of dollars
on the black market and traveling hundreds of miles to get one.

Tennessee has issued more than 51,000 certificates since it became the first
state to offer them in July 2004. But not every certificate has gone to someone
living there.

Two major federal arrests in recent months exposed shuttles bringing South and
Central American immigrants from as far away as New Jersey to state licensing
centers in Knoxville, where the immigrants obtained certificates using fake
residency papers.

Last week, a third sweep revealed an alleged conspiracy in which prosecutors say
state license examiners in Murfreesboro, outside Nashville, accepted bribes to
provide illegal immigrants with driver's licenses and certificates without
testing.

"We have seen individuals coming to Tennessee to take advantage of the
driver's-certificate program because they are easy to obtain," said acting U.S.
Attorney Russ Dedrick.

The disclosures come as Tennessee's certificate system is being studied as a
possible model for handling "non-conforming drivers" under the Real ID program
recently enacted by Congress, which  will set a national standard for driver's
licenses by 2008.

DE QUEEN, Ark.  --  A woman  accused of smothering her three young children left
notes that officials say could help determine what led to the killings, and her
priest said Sunday that she had expressed "tremendous remorse."

Paula Eleazar Mendez, 43, was jailed after being treated at a hospital for
swallowing a toxic substance. She had collapsed as officers arrived at her home
Saturday morning in response to a telephone call from the children's father in
New York. Inside the house, the officers found the bodies of the children, ages
6 and 8, lying side by side on a bed, said Chris Brackett, a Sevier County
sheriff's investigator.

"She has tremendous remorse. She is deeply sorry," the Rev. Salvador
Marquez-Munoz said Sunday of Mendez. He identified the children as 8-year-old
Elvis and 6-year-old twins Samanta and her brother Samuel.

*  LAKE FOREST, Calif.  --  A man picking up his young son for a supervised
court visit was shot twice at point-blank range by the boy's 81-year-old
great-grandmother and died of his injuries, police said. Alex Reyes, 26, was
shot Saturday while picking up his 18-month-old son. Witnesses said Reyes
appeared to be having a casual conversation with his ex-wife and her
grandmother, Jeane Ellen Allen, on the front porch of their home, when Allen
allegedly pulled out a gun and fired, police said. Allen will be charged with
murder.

*  MIAMI  --  A politically influential Catholic priest arrived in Miami  after
Haiti's government granted him a temporary release from jail to be treated for
leukemia and pneumonia. The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste had been in prison on
suspicion of involvement in the killing of Jacques Roche, a prominent Haitian
journalist and poet. The  priest, 59, has denied the allegations.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              122 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

State Certificate Hits the Big Time;
Tenn. Document Proves a Magnet To Immigrants and Black Market

BYLINE: Duncan Mansfield, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: KNOXVILLE, Tenn.


Tennessee's driving certificate for illegal immigrants is not supposed to be
valid as a form of ID, but the document is so popular that people are paying
hundreds of dollars and traveling hundreds of miles to get one.

Tennessee has issued more than 51,000 certificates since 2004 when it became the
first state  --  since joined by Utah  --  to offer them. But not every
certificate has gone to someone living in Tennessee.

Two major federal arrests in recent months exposed black-market shuttles
carrying South and Central American immigrants from New Jersey and Georgia to
state licensing centers in Knoxville, where immigrants using phony residency
papers got certificates.

A third sweep near Nashville last month uncovered a conspiracy in which
prosecutors say state license examiners in Murfreesboro accepted bribes from a
driving school to provide illegal immigrants with driver's licenses and
certificates without testing.

This comes as Tennessee's certificate system is being studied as a possible
model for handling "non-conforming drivers" under Congress's recently adopted
Real ID Act that will set a national standard for driver's licenses by 2008.

"We have seen individuals coming to Tennessee to take advantage of the driver's
certificate program because they are easy to obtain," Acting U.S. Attorney Russ
Dedrick said.

Although "Not Valid for Identification" appears in bold red letters on the face
of the wallet-size certificates, Dedrick said banks accept them as legal ID and
they "can easily be passed off for other types of identification documents."

Lawyer Mike Whalen, whose client Zeneida Concepcion Rivera faces  as much as
four years in prison if convicted of bringing as many as 100 immigrants from New
Jersey to Knoxville for certificates, said the government is making too much of
the problem.

"Somebody went through the roof and said, 'Remember 9/11, everyone had driver's
licenses,' " he said. "Well, none of these Mexican immigrants are in flight
school anywhere. There is a difference."

That argument carries little weight in law enforcement circles.

The certificate law "just kind of opened up a floodgate of everyone wanting to
come here to get some sort of identification," said Knox County Sheriff Tim
Hutchison, whose officers discovered 58 illegal immigrants used the same
Knoxville address to get a certificate.

Applicants must provide two documents, such as utility bills or a lease, to show
they reside in Tennessee, and a Social Security number  --  or a sworn affidavit
if there is none. They also must pass an eye exam, a driving rules test and a
road test.

"What we tried to do in Tennessee was to recognize that there are people who may
be legally here but they are not completely documented," Gov. Phil Bredesen (D)
said.

Tennessee began licensing illegal immigrants, without a Social Security number
requirement, in early 2001. More than 180,000 obtained licenses before post-9/11
fears set in.

The driving certificates were created in 2004 to satisfy homeland security
concerns while giving illegal immigrants the right to drive with certified
proficiency.

Bredesen recalled being shocked three years ago to see an ad in a
Spanish-language newspaper in Georgia promoting package deals for "a certain
amount of money to get on a bus and go to Tennessee to get a driver's license."

Since then, he said, "there is no question we have tightened it up a long way."

Yet the arrests of the New Jersey-based group in July and a Georgia-based group
in December suggest the underground express is still rolling  --  with illegal
immigrants willing to pay $950 to $1,500 apiece to come to Knoxville to get a
certificate.

Some say the problem  is not the law, but the law's enforcement.

Hutchison's officers searched the Internet to determine that immigrants were
using fake residences, and they spent months monitoring the suspects' movements
before they were arrested.

"I would hope that the state would pick up on it sooner," the sheriff said. "But
I am not sure that they are actually geared to do that."

Tracy McGill, a supervisor at a Knoxville testing center where dozens of the
fake residences were used to get certificates, refused to comment.

The allure of payoffs to underpaid license examiners may only increase as
requirements tighten and certificates become more precious, said Melissa Savage,
a policy analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              123 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 26, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tennessee Stops Issuing Cards to Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Lucas L. Johnson II, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE


Tennessee stopped issuing driving certificates to illegal immigrants Friday
after investigators learned that out-of-state applicants were using fake papers
and bribes to get cards.

The program could be scrapped altogether after a review by state investigators,
interim Safety Commissioner  Gerald F. Nicely said.

The program was meant to improve driving safety by ensuring immigrants knew
traffic rules.

One major problem, Nicely said, was the variety of documents, such as utility
bills or housing leases, that people could use to prove they  live in Tennessee.
The department was flooded with certificate requests, and employees were
overwhelmed trying to verify the paperwork, he said.

The wallet-size certificates were labeled "not valid for identification" in bold
red letters, but federal prosecutors say banks accepted them as legal
identification and they could be passed off as official  identification at other
places.

A dozen people pleaded guilty in recent months after two federal investigations
found shuttles from as far away as New Jersey had brought South and Central
American immigrants with fake residency papers to get certificates at state
licensing centers in Knoxville.

In January, federal prosecutors filed charges that state license examiners in
Murfreesboro accepted bribes to provide out-of-state illegal immigrants with
driver's licenses and certificates. Two people were sentenced to two years in
prison after pleading guilty, and others are awaiting trial.

The schemes could have resulted in hundreds of fraudulent certificates,
officials said.

Tennessee is among 11 U.S. states that have not required proof of legal
residence to obtain driving documents.

In early 2001, the state started issuing full driver's licenses without
requiring a Social Security number, and more than 180,000 people obtained
licenses. The driving certificates were created in 2004 to satisfy homeland
security concerns; about 51,000 were issued. Utah has a similar program.

Gov. Phil Bredesen (D) said Friday  he is not abandoning the program but does
want to see some changes.

"I'm not sorry we went down that road," Bredesen said. "I'm concerned enough
about implementation issues to put a hold on this for the time being until we
get ourselves sorted out and get a good strategy."

The American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee, which had favored the full
driver's licenses, was critical of the decision to suspend the certificates.

"The certificate program, while discriminatory to begin with, at least ensured
that drivers were trained and had insurance," executive director Hedy Weinberg
said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              124 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 574 words


The U.S. government will open a facility in May to begin detaining families with
children caught illegally entering the United States, Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff said yesterday.

The crackdown is aimed at anecdotal reports of smugglers who pay unrelated
children to pose as "window dressing," or fake families, for border crossers, he
said.

"This is . . . not only a smart way to defeat this incentive," Chertoff said, ".
. . but it actually is humanitarian  --  because we want to discourage people
from bringing children on what is a very dangerous journey across the border."

Border agents now often release illegal immigrant families into the United
States instead of deporting them because the government lacks facilities to hold
parents and children together.

The Food and Drug Administration published a proposal to ban the use of two
potent influenza drugs in animals. The goal is to prevent the emergence of new
strains of avian flu that would be resistant to the few medicines that could be
used to treat the disease, which is rapidly spreading around the globe and is
expected to arrive in the United States this spring.

The rule would ban the veterinary use of Tamiflu (oseltamivir phosphate)  --  a
drug that has proved useful in patients with avian flu  --  and other influenza
medicines approved for use only in humans. Normally it is legal for
veterinarians to prescribe human drugs for animals. But use of these drugs in
infected poultry could speed the evolution of resistant strains, leaving humans
without good treatment options, health officials said.

The agency will accept public comments on the proposal through May 22.

Sen. John Ensign (R-Nev.), a former veterinarian who criticized pet-evacuation
efforts after Hurricane Katrina, is blocking the promotion of a Coast Guard vice
admiral who headed the hurricane recovery.

President Bush named Vice Adm. Thad W. Allen to be commandant of the Coast Guard
in January. The nomination was approved last week by the Senate Commerce,
Science and Transportation Committee.

Allen was put in charge of Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts in September after
the administration pulled then-FEMA director Michael D. Brown off the job.

Ensign spokesman Jack Finn declined to say why the senator is blocking Allen's
confirmation by the full Senate.

"We have some questions we want to have answered, and we anticipate having them
answered before too long," Finn said.

NATO is prepared to support a U.N. force in the Darfur region of Sudan, the
alliance's secretary general told President Bush in a White House visit.

"I'm quite sure, as I told the president, that when the U.N. comes, the NATO
allies will be ready to do more in enabling a United Nations force in Darfur,"
Jaap De Hoop Scheffer told reporters after his meeting with Bush.

Bush has called for greater NATO involvement in Darfur, which the United Nations
has described as the world's gravest humanitarian crisis. The conflict there has
left more than 180,000 people dead and 2 million displaced.

But Bush said the African Union must request that its mission in Darfur be
converted to a U.N. mission. When that happens, NATO can move in with U.S. help
"to make it clear to the Sudanese government that we're intent upon providing
security for the people there and intent upon helping work toward a lasting
peace agreement," the president said.

--  From News Services

and Staff Reports

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              125 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Down on Border, 'La Linea' Isn't So Clear;
Bush to Discuss Illegal Crossings and Drug Trade at Three-Way Summit in Cancun

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 1403 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Mexico


Troops. Barricades. Guns.

On the border, this is the vocabulary of U.S.-Mexico relations. Here at one of
the busiest crossing points, dingy metal walls separate the United States from
Mexico, rich from poor. The walls are spray-painted with crude images of
American border patrol agents, their pistols leveled at brown-skinned men.

Even as differences over immigration and border security  --  roiled this week
by congressional debates and massive protests by Latinos across the United
States  --  threaten to dredge a deeper divide between the nations, it is clear
that they are increasingly knit by an exchange of business, ideas and, above
all, human beings.

On Thursday and Friday, when President Bush meets in Cancun with President
Vicente Fox, there will be no topic more pressing than the border  --  "La
Linea," as Mexicans call it  --  a barrier that dominates a relationship marked
both by enormous potential and overwhelming problems. Bush arrived in Cancun
Wednesday night.

Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper will also participate in the talks at the
coastal resort, the second session since the formation of the Security and
Prosperity Partnership of North America, intended to foster cooperation among
the United States, Mexico and Canada.

Historic feelings of mistrust remain strong on the Mexican side of the border
with the United States. Business is booming, but so is crime, and the rapid but
lopsided economic development of the region has highlighted the persistent
differences in living standards between the two countries.

In 2005, the United States imported a record $170 billion in goods from Mexico
and exported $120 billion to its southern neighbor, according to the U.S.
Department of Commerce. Twelve years after the implementation of the North
American Free Trade Agreement, American business people tap into high-speed,
Wi-Fi networks in the lobbies of U.S.-style hotels in border towns such as
Nogales.

But out in the remote deserts, the border sizzles with a different kind of
activity. An all-time high of 1.17 million people, the great majority of them
Mexican migrants, were arrested by U.S. agents for illegal border crossing
between October 2004 and October 2005. A record 473 people died while trying to
cross, according to the U.S. Border Patrol.

Uncounted hundreds of thousands more make it into the United States illegally
and blend into a nationwide pool of surreptitious, cheap labor. They work on
cleanup crews in Houston, construction sites in Virginia and onion fields in
California, ever one step ahead of deportation.

At the same time, Mexico remains a major conduit for illegal drugs, turning
border towns such as Nuevo Laredo and Juarez into virtual shooting galleries and
further complicating relations with the United States.

In the 700-mile corridor between El Paso and Nuevo Laredo, U.S. drug enforcement
agents seized 1,220 kilos of cocaine in 2005, up from 700 kilos four years
earlier. The amount of methamphetamine confiscated between the Texas border
cities of Laredo and Brownsville nearly tripled in those years, to 354 kilos,
while marijuana seizures in the Phoenix border-crossing area more than doubled,
to 285,000 kilos.

The torrent of drugs and migrants across the Arizona border  --  an especially
hazardous trip because of the dangers of dehydration in the vast desert  --  has
turned that state into a flash point for confrontation.

Gov. Janet Napolitano (D) issued an executive order this month allowing her to
dispatch more National Guard troops to the border, even as she stated that "we
are not at war with Mexico." The state legislature has tried to take steps of
its own to marshal troops, and the volunteer Minuteman Civil Defense Corps
launched citizen border patrols.

Outside Nogales, a city of 20,000 where the main roads funnel north to the
Arizona border, the cycle of attempted crossings, arrests, deportations and more
attempts revolves like a surreal game.

One recent afternoon, Abram Gutierrez, a 23-year-old migrant with chipped
fingernails and a dirty sweat shirt, devoured a bowl of instant noodles outside
the building housing Grupo Beta, a humanitarian aid program funded by the
Mexican government. Hours before, he had been caught in Arizona and taken back
to Nogales. Now he was plotting a second try  --  and a third and fourth, if
need be.

"We'll see who gets bored first," Gutierrez said, laughing. His friend, Lasaroa
Damian, 27, said Bush and Fox should realize that migrants "are like cats" who
find another way into a house after the front door is closed.

In the United States, debate over illegal immigration has become super-heated
with election-year politics. The House of Representatives passed a bill in
December that would make it a felony for a person to be in the United States
illegally, and some members have proposed building a wall along the entire
U.S.-Mexico border.

Now the divisive issue has moved to the Senate, where this week the Judiciary
Committee approved a bill that would create a large temporary-worker program and
allow an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants to apply for work visas after
paying fines. But Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) has proposed stiffening
penalties for businesses that hire illegal immigrants, and many conservatives
strongly oppose any amnesty.

The Fox government took out full-page ads last week in several major U.S.
newspapers, including The Washington Post, urging an immigration pact that would
allow assimilation of undocumented workers living in the United States. "We are
your friends and neighbors. Let's work together," the ads read.

"Mexico and the U.S., I think, are becoming more aware that they are
interdependent, and perhaps neither of the countries feels entirely comfortable
with that interdependence," Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico's undersecretary for
North American affairs, said in an interview. "The relationship is at a fairly
complex moment of catharsis."

But Fox, who cannot run for reelection and will leave office in December, has
responded angrily to U.S. proposals to tighten the border. In a recent speech,
he predicted that by 2010, the United States would "beg" Mexico for workers in
vain, suggesting that by then the Mexican economy would generate enough jobs to
sustain its 100 million-plus people.

"The rhetoric is more strident. The politics is driving this," Michael Shifter,
director of the nonprofit Inter-American Dialogue, said by phone from
Washington. "The U.S. and Mexico have a knack for bringing out the worst in each
other."

It wasn't supposed to turn out this way. When Fox was elected in 2000, many here
and in the United States predicted an era of what was dubbed "ranchero
diplomacy," with the two leaders bonding at Bush's Texas ranch and Fox's
hacienda. On Sept. 5, 2001, Bush declared that Mexico represented the most
important international relationship for the United States.

Six days later, terrorists smashed planes into the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, and the U.S. focus shifted to the Middle East and South Asia. Mexico
later alienated the United States by not supporting the war in Iraq.

Mexicans weren't entirely surprised to see their relationship drop from the
forefront of U.S. foreign policy.  But Shifter said that "the question Mexicans
raise is, did it have to completely disappear?"

A disappearance of another sort, beyond the vigilant gaze of border patrol
agents, is exactly what Abram Gutierrez wants. For him, the other side of the
border represents "el color verde"  --  the color green, the color of money.
Sitting in the hot Nogales sun last week, he vowed to make it across this time,
whether by "holes or tunnels or the desert."

Francisco Loureiro, who runs a shelter in Nogales that has housed 600,000
migrants in 24 years, recognizes Gutierrez's determination. It is a quality, he
said, that he has seen over and over in the men who pass through his shelter.

Loureiro says the only solution is a broad guest-worker program, something the
Bush administration recently proposed. But he said his expectations are low for
the upcoming meeting between the U.S. and Mexican leaders.

"Every time they talk, I have hope," he said. "But things are getting worse."

When the sun drops, Loureiro's little shelter will be full, as it is every
night. When Gutierrez disappears, he knows, thousands more will follow.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              126 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

2 Schools, 1 Walkout To Protest Alien Bill;
Broad Run Finds No Reception At Stone Bridge

BYLINE: Scott Butterworth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T03

LENGTH: 434 words


It was supposed to be a joint demonstration by students from two Ashburn high
schools, protesting a proposed federal crackdown on illegal immigrants. But only
one side showed up.

About 30 students walked out of Broad Run High School on Friday morning,
intending to team up with students from Stone Bridge High School. Together they
would decry congressional bills that would make illegal immigration a felony.

That legislation has drawn hundreds of Washington area students out of schools
all week. Friday's was to be the first such rally in Loudoun County.

But the Stone Bridge students never made it.

Perhaps it was the announcements, made over the intercom system, warning of
possible suspensions for leaving school grounds that dissuaded them. Or maybe
the students just had second thoughts.

Either way, the Broad Run students were on their own.

When the bell rang at 10:29 a.m., they began heading out of school and gathered
to march two miles over to Stone Bridge, escorted by school officials and
sheriff's deputies.

There they discovered the Stone Bridge students had not walked out, and they
learned that they were not allowed on the grounds of Stone Bridge, said Loudon
County schools spokesman Wayde B. Byard. So they stayed across the street from
the campus and began their protest, some waving Salvadoran and Mexican flags.
They were back in classes about 12:30 p.m., officials said.

Although other regional protests have come from schools with significant
Hispanic populations, Hispanics make up only about 8 percent of Broad Run and
Stone Bridge's 3,100 students  --  less than the Loudoun school district average
of 12 percent.

Edgar T. Markley, Broad Run's principal, suggested that students who marched
might have been inspired by TV coverage of earlier protests and that his
advisory on Friday morning might have changed the minds of some about
participating in a walkout.

"We're not talking very many kids," Markley said. "Some of them probably thought
when I made my announcement, it was a better idea to stay put. This was a good
decision."

Markley said the federal legislation has been discussed in classes at Broad Run,
as have  ways to demonstrate objections, such as sending e-mails and writing
petitions.

Those who took their cause to the streets on a sunny Friday morning will be
giving up another Friday in return. This Friday is a teachers' work day, but the
protesters must show up from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.

"They'll do some detention stuff, help with some community service," Markley
said. "If they're going to take a day off, we'll give them another day at
school."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              127 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 27, 2006 Monday 12:27 PM EST

Bush's Immigration Crisis

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 3266 words



HIGHLIGHT: For all the talk of a Republican congressional rebellion, President
Bush hasn't yet lost a significant legislative battle on Capitol Hill.


For all the talk of a Republican congressional rebellion, President Bush hasn't
yet lost a significant legislative battle on Capitol Hill.

This week may change all that.

Bush sees a comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws as a top priority for his
second term and he is pushing hard for an approach that includes both stepped-up
border security and a guest-worker program. The goal is to cut down on illegal
immigration while satisfying business interests -- and doing so in a way that
can plausibly be described as compassionate.

But it's not looking good on the Hill.

Glenn Thrush and Peter Clark write in Newsday that Bush's effort, "which comes
to a head this week in the Senate, has splintered the Republican ranks, pitting
pro-business moderates and the White House against hard-liners eager to tap
voter anger on the issue.

"It's also energized the Democrats' inner-city base and soured Hispanics to the
GOP, spawning massive pro-immigrant protests on the streets of Los Angeles,
Phoenix and Milwaukee."

Elisabeth Bumiller writes in the New York Times: "Mr. Bush is facing another
test of his remaining powers as president.

"On Thursday, he called for calm in a White House meeting with groups pressing
for changes in American immigration laws.

" 'I urge members of Congress and I urge people who like to comment on this
issue to make sure the rhetoric is in accord with our traditions,' the president
said.

"He added, in a warning to members of Congress, that 'the debate must be done in
a way that doesn't pit one group of people against another.' . . .

"Philosophically, the president, whose own sensibility on the issue was shaped
by his experience as governor of Texas, says he is committed to a program that
meets the needs of business. . . .

"But politically, Mr. Bush must satisfy his most conservative supporters."

Bush spoke about immigration this morning at a naturalization ceremony in
Washington. Suzanne Gamboa writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush said
Monday that overhauling the nation's immigration laws 'is not going to be easy'
and warned critics against stoking anti-immigrant feelings by calling them a
threat to the nation's identity or a burden to the economy."

And while Bush worries about his right flank, there's a groundswell building to
his left.

As Nina Bernstein writes in the New York Times: "Rallies in support of
immigrants around the country have attracted crowds that have astonished even
their organizers. More than a half-million demonstrators marched in Los Angeles
on Saturday, as many as 300,000 in Chicago on March 10, and -- in between --
tens of thousands in Denver, Phoenix, Milwaukee and elsewhere. . . .

"The demonstrations embody a surging constituency demanding that illegal
immigrants be given a path to citizenship rather than be punished with prison
terms. It is being pressed as never before by immigrants who were long thought
too fearful of deportation to risk so public a display."

As the White House revs up its campaign to blame the media for the increasingly
negative impression the American public has of the war in Iraq, media critic
Howard Kurtz raises questions, both in his Washington Post column and his CNN
talk show , about the newly combative White House press corps.

"In increasingly aggressive questions to President Bush and Vice President
Cheney, in a growing focus on the death toll in Iraq, in downbeat assessments on
the invasion's third anniversary, many journalists now reflect the view that the
war has gone horribly wrong," Kurtz writes.

"Consider the questions asked at Bush's news conference last week.

"ABC's Jessica Yellin: 'Are you willing to sacrifice American lives to keep
Iraqis from killing one another?'

"CNN's Kathleen Koch: 'Do you believe [Defense Secretary Donald] Rumsfeld should
resign?'

"USA Today's David Jackson: 'Are you concerned that the Iraq experience is going
to embolden authoritarian regimes in the Middle East and make it tougher to get
democracy there?'

"Bob Deans of Cox News: "Is there a point at which having the American forces in
Iraq becomes more a part of the problem than a part of the solution?"

"The Washington Post's Jim VandeHei: Polls show 'a growing number of Americans
are questioning the trustworthiness of you and this White House. Does that
concern you?'

"Hearst columnist Helen Thomas: 'Your decision to invade Iraq has caused the
deaths of thousands of Americans and Iraqis, wounds of Americans and Iraqis for
a lifetime. Every reason given, publicly at least, has turned out not to be
true.' "

On CNN, Kurtz asked former White House correspondent Frank Sesno: "Frank Sesno,
you heard those questions. To people sitting at home, what is the cumulative
effect of hearing reporters ask those questions?

"FRANK SESNO, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: Probably for the people sitting at home
the cumulative effect, Howie, is that there they go again: the journalists doing
what they do best, pounding away, badgering the witness, sounding overly
negative. To those in the -- in the press room, however, it's their job. And it
is also an expression of the frustration of reporters who try to cover the White
House to get, frankly, a straight answer."

Kurtz seems to be concerned that people will think the media is being too
partisan, or is piling on, and that there could be a backlash. But the media
should never shy away from the questions of the day for any reason.

There is absolutely nothing wrong with asking the president tough questions --
unless of course the primary goal is maintaining appearances, rather than trying
to report the news.

Presidential press conferences may have turned into spectator sports for media
critics -- amateur and professional alike -- but they are not a game.
Particularly now, trying to get the president to answer important questions is
deadly serious business. And anyone suggesting that reporters should back off
because it looks unseemly is missing the point entirely.

Indeed, White House reporters should get even tougher. They should follow up on
their own questions and each others'. And they should not hesitate to demand --
on behalf of the American public -- straight answers rather than the same old
timeworn talking points that the public has already dismissed as unresponsive,
irrelevant and unconvincing.

Kurtz's question was not so well-received by two of his other guests: Richard
Wolffe of Newsweek and Pamela Hess of UPI.

"KURTZ: Richard Wolffe, you heard those questions. Were you at the briefing? It
sounded like the reporters were somewhere between skeptical and hostile towards
the war effort.

"WOLFFE: Well, for starts, it's the three-year anniversary of the war. So it was
inevitable that the questions about Iraq were going to dominate. But they're
also reflecting public opinion.

"At 29 percent approval on the war, the president has lost about a quarter of
his own base. So it's not like reporters have cooked this up. There are deep
concerns in the country about the direction of the war. Opinion has turned
against the war and the question of whether it was worth it. And reporters
reflect what their audiences are interested in. . . .

"It's the third anniversary of the war in Iraq, of the invasion in Iraq. As I
said, were people obsessed about it? Sure. Is it the biggest thing in American
life right now? Yes. It's costing a huge amount in blood and treasure."

"HESS: Just to ask a question implies negativity, because it is questioning of
authority. So people will automatically see all of those questions as negative,
even though they're not. They're just questions asking for information. Are you
willing to sacrifice lives to stop a civil war? Answer the question.

"KURTZ: Right, but there is a cumulative effect that comes. . . .

"HESS: Sure.

"KURTZ: . . . across the screen when there are so many in succession."

By contrast, National Journal media critic William Powers writes: "President
Bush is in a terrible mess right now. Iraq is a thousand times more significant
than Clinton's worst scandal. Yet the pitch of the Washington war coverage
doesn't approach that of the Clinton impeachment. The press corps seems weary
and beaten down. Somehow, even when this president is riding low with the
public, he still has a way of making the journalists who cover him seem small
and powerless -- as if they fear that the mandate he claimed after the 2004
election is still firmly in place.

"It isn't, and this week it became clear that if the journalists don't realize
this, nonjournalists do. News outlets reported that in Bush's travels around the
country, he has been encountering more hardball questions from ordinary
citizens. In a headline, USA Today called these meetings 'feisty forums.'

"The day before his White House news conference, Bush spoke to one such group in
Cleveland, and a number of war zingers reportedly came his way. At the news
conference -- where only Helen Thomas seemed to be in an Alpha mood -- one
reporter told Bush how unhappy those feisty Clevelanders seemed about the war,
as if this gave his question heft. And it did."

There it was, right on the front page of The Washington Post on Saturday --
Michael Powell writing from Holyoke, Mass: "To drive through the mill towns and
curling country roads here is to journey into New England's impeachment belt.
Three of this state's 10 House members have called for the investigation and
possible impeachment of President Bush.

"Thirty miles north, residents in four Vermont villages voted earlier this month
at annual town meetings to buy more rock salt, approve school budgets, and
impeach the president for lying about Iraq having weapons of mass destruction
and for sanctioning torture. . . .

"It would be a considerable overstatement to say the fledgling impeachment
movement threatens to topple a presidency -- there are just 33 House co-sponsors
of a motion by Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) to investigate and perhaps
impeach Bush, and a large majority of elected Democrats think it is a bad idea.
But talk bubbles up in many corners of the nation, and on the Internet, where
several Web sites have led the charge, giving liberals an outlet for anger that
has been years in the making."

For those of you who haven't been paying attention, Powell explains: "The
argument for an impeachment inquiry -- which draws support from prominent
constitutional scholars such as Harvard's Laurence H. Tribe and former Reagan
deputy attorney general Bruce Fein -- centers on Bush's conduct before and after
the invasion of Iraq in 2003.

"It is argued that Bush and his officials conspired to manufacture evidence of
weapons of mass destruction to persuade Congress to approve the invasion."

Furthermore: "Critics point to Bush's approval of harsh interrogations of
prisoners captured Iraq and Afghanistan, tactics that human rights groups such
as Amnesty International say amount to torture. Bush also authorized warrantless
electronic surveillance of telephone calls and e-mails, subjecting possibly
thousands of Americans each year to eavesdropping since 2001."

Impeachpac.org is keeping tabs on the local impeachment resolutions.

Some of the elements of this particular memo have been reported before, but Don
Van Natta Jr. has many more details in today's New York Times, and yet more
evidence that in spite of his public statements, Bush was committed to war long
before the attack was launched.

"During a private two-hour meeting in the Oval Office on Jan. 31, 2003, [Bush]
made clear to Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain that he was determined to
invade Iraq without [a second United Nations] resolution, or even if
international arms inspectors failed to find unconventional weapons, said a
confidential memo about the meeting written by Mr. Blair's top foreign policy
adviser and reviewed by The New York Times. . . .

"The memo indicates the two leaders envisioned a quick victory and a transition
to a new Iraqi government that would be complicated, but manageable. Mr. Bush
predicted that it was 'unlikely there would be internecine warfare between the
different religious and ethnic groups.' Mr. Blair agreed with that assessment.

"The memo also shows that the president and the prime minister acknowledged that
no unconventional weapons had been found inside Iraq. Faced with the possibility
of not finding any before the planned invasion, Mr. Bush talked about several
ways to provoke a confrontation, including a proposal to paint a United States
surveillance plane in the colors of the United Nations in hopes of drawing fire,
or assassinating Mr. Hussein.

"Those proposals were first reported last month in the British press , but the
memo does not make clear whether they reflected Mr. Bush's extemporaneous
suggestions, or were elements of the government's plan. . . .

"The January 2003 memo is the latest in a series of secret memos produced by top
aides to Mr. Blair that summarize private discussions between the president and
the prime minister. Another group of British memos, including the so-called
Downing Street memo written in July 2002, showed that some senior British
officials had been concerned that the United States was determined to invade
Iraq, and that the 'intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy'
by the Bush administration to fit its desire to go to war."

Charlie Savage writes in the Boston Globe: "When President Bush signed the
reauthorization of the USA Patriot Act this month, he included an addendum
saying that he did not feel obliged to obey requirements that he inform Congress
about how the FBI was using the act's expanded police powers. . . .

"Bush signed the bill with fanfare at a White House ceremony March 9, calling it
'a piece of legislation that's vital to win the war on terror and to protect the
American people.' But after the reporters and guests had left, the White House
quietly issued a 'signing statement,' an official document in which a president
lays out his interpretation of a new law.

"In the statement, Bush said that he did not consider himself bound to tell
Congress how the Patriot Act powers were being used and that, despite the law's
requirements, he could withhold the information if he decided that disclosure
would 'impair foreign relations, national security, the deliberative process of
the executive, or the performance of the executive's constitutional duties.'"

In an also unnoticed-at-the-time statement on March 15, Senator Patrick J. Leahy
(D-Vt.) wrote: "The President's signing statement poses two profound threats to
our constitutional system of checks and balances. First, his unorthodox but
repeatedly invoked unitary executive theory is really a unilateral executive
theory. This President appears to believe that he can pick and choose which laws
to obey and need never submit to congressional oversight. . . .

"Second, this President appears to hold a strange and novel view of the
appropriate role of the President in the legislative process. . . .

"These signing statements are a clever device if Congress will let him get away
with them. As he did with the torture legislation, the President can publicly
take credit for signing popular legislation while in fact fighting it all the
way and refusing to commit to abide by it. At the same time, he can sidestep a
veto override."

The Smoking Gun Web site electrified the blogosphere on Thursday with a copy of
Vice President Cheney's " downtime requirements " when staying at a hotel. Among
them: four cans of Diet Caffeine Sprite, and all TVs tuned to Fox News.

And no pressure, but "If the Hotel would like to put a gift in the Suite please
let the Advance Office know ASAP."

Barbara Liston writes for Reuters from Florida, where "Cheney on Friday rejected
charges by Democrats that the Bush administration was mishandling Iraq and said:
'If they are competent to fight this war, then I ought to be singing on American
Idol.' "

Jennifer Radcliffe writes in the Houston Chronicle: "As Barbara Bush spent two
hours championing her son's software company at a Houston middle school Thursday
morning, a watchdog group questioned whether the former first lady should be
allowed to channel a donation to Neil Bush's Ignite Learning company through
Houston's Hurricane Katrina relief fund.

" 'It's strange that the former first lady would want to do this. If her son's
having a rough time of it, couldn't she write him a check?' said Daniel
Borochoff, founder of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a Chicago-based
charity watchdog group. 'Maybe she isn't aware that people could frown upon
this.'

"Some critics said donations to a tax-deductible charitable fund shouldn't
benefit the Bush family. Others questioned whether the Houston Independent
School District violated district policy by allowing the company to host a
promotional event on campus."

Kenneth T. Walsh writes in U.S. News about our first MBA president: " 'The
problem with the CEO style of management,' says a Republican who advises the
White House, 'is there has to be delegation, and it's easy to let it slip too
far.' Critics say the small group of senior aides who've been given lots of
authority may be trying to do too much. These officials -- [Chief of Staff Andy]
Card, counselor Dan Bartlett, Deputy Chief of Staff and political strategist
Karl Rove, Deputy Chief of Staff Joe Hagin -- 'are also President Bush's
personal assistants and spend a great deal of time tending to him . . . so the
management is weak,' says the adviser. [Rutgers political scientist Ross] Baker
says these aides seem to be 'mind guards' for the president, rather than
policymakers, administrators, or thinkers.

"And aside from his inner circle, Bush is said to be distant from the rest of
his staff, jeopardizing morale. Just as important, many members of Congress
complain that they don't get their phone calls returned or their ideas
considered in the West Wing."

Kim Clark writes in a companion piece that "some business leaders worry that
Bush may not be applying some of B-school's most important lessons and may be
suffering instead from all-too-typical M.B.A. flaws, such as overconfidence."

Sabrina Eaton writes for Newhouse News Service: "Bush seemed flummoxed by the
question Jan Roller asked after the president's speech last Monday in Cleveland,
where he was defending his handling of the Iraq war.

"Citing the newly released book 'American Theocracy' by former Nixon
administration official Kevin Phillips, Roller asked whether Bush agrees with
'prophetic Christians' who view the Iraq war and the rise of terrorism as 'signs
of the apocalypse,' the end-of-the-world cataclysm described in the Bible's Book
of Revelation.

" 'I haven't really thought of it that way,' Bush told her after a long pause,
adding that he hadn't previously heard the theory. 'I guess I'm more of a
practical fellow.' . . .

"Bush critics, including Phillips, contend the president feigned confusion. Had
the president embraced the controversial views of his religious backers, the
critics say, he would have alienated moderates."

Elisabeth Bumiller writes in the New York Times: "President Bush has said he is
listening to advice about his staff from a lot of people, and one of them is
evidently his wife.

"In an interview with Larry King broadcast on CNN on Friday night, Laura Bush
said that she advised her husband regularly on personnel, and she suggested that
she had weighed in on the continuing calls from Republicans for new blood in the
West Wing."

Today, Bumiller writes that the first lady may be leading by example, as "a
close look at the first lady's office also shows that she has replaced her
entire high command after five years in charge of the East Wing."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         March 27, 2006 Monday 12:27 PM

Bush's Immigration Crisis

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Dan Froomkin, Special to washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 3722 words

HIGHLIGHT: For all the talk of a Republican congressional rebellion, President
Bush hasn't yet lost a significant legislative battle on Capitol Hill.


For all the talk of a Republican congressional rebellion, President Bush hasn't
yet lost a significant legislative battle on Capitol Hill.

This week may change all that.

Bush sees a comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws as a top priority for his
second term and he is pushing hard for an approach that includes both stepped-up
border security and a guest-worker program. The goal is to cut down on illegal
immigration while satisfying business interests -- and doing so in a way that
can plausibly be described as compassionate.

But it's not looking good on the Hill.

http://www.newsday.com/news/nationworld/nation/ny-usimmig264677973mar27,0,253766
8.story?coll=ny-nationalnews-print" target=" Glenn Thrush and Peter Clark write
in Newsday that Bush's effort, "which comes to a head this week in the Senate,
has splintered the Republican ranks, pitting pro-business moderates and the
White House against hard-liners eager to tap voter anger on the issue.

"It's also energized the Democrats' inner-city base and soured Hispanics to the
GOP, spawning massive pro-immigrant protests on the streets of Los Angeles,
Phoenix and Milwaukee."

http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/24/politics/24bush.html" target=" Elisabeth
Bumiller writes in the New York Times: "Mr. Bush is facing another test of his
remaining powers as president.

"On Thursday, he called for calm in a
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2006/03/20060323.html" target=" White
House meeting with groups pressing for changes in American immigration laws.

" 'I urge members of Congress and I urge people who like to comment on this
issue to make sure the rhetoric is in accord with our traditions,' the president
said.

"He added, in a warning to members of Congress, that 'the debate must be done in
a way that doesn't pit one group of people against another.' . . .

"Philosophically, the president, whose own sensibility on the issue was shaped
by his experience as governor of Texas, says he is committed to a program that
meets the needs of business. . . .

"But politically, Mr. Bush must satisfy his most conservative supporters."

Bush spoke about immigration this morning at a naturalization ceremony in
Washington.
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/27/AR2006032700120.
html" target=" Suzanne Gamboa writes for the Associated Press: "President Bush
said Monday that overhauling the nation's immigration laws 'is not going to be
easy' and warned critics against stoking anti-immigrant feelings by calling them
a threat to the nation's identity or a burden to the economy."

And while Bush worries about his right flank, there's a groundswell building to
his left.

As http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/27/national/27immig.html" target=" Nina
Bernstein writes in the New York Times: "Rallies in support of immigrants around
the country have attracted crowds that have astonished even their organizers.
More than a half-million demonstrators marched in Los Angeles on Saturday, as
many as 300,000 in Chicago on March 10, and -- in between -- tens of thousands
in Denver, Phoenix, Milwaukee and elsewhere. . . .

"The demonstrations embody a surging constituency demanding that illegal
immigrants be given a path to citizenship rather than be punished with prison
terms. It is being pressed as never before by immigrants who were long thought
too fearful of deportation to risk so public a display."

As the White House revs up its campaign to blame the media for the increasingly
negative impression the American public has of the war in Iraq, media critic
Howard Kurtz raises questions, both in his
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/26/AR2006032601233.
html" target=" Washington Post column and his
http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0603/26/rs.01.html" target=" CNN talk
show , about the newly combative White House press corps.

"In increasingly aggressive questions to President Bush and Vice President
Cheney, in a growing focus on the death toll in Iraq, in downbeat assessments on
the invasion's third anniversary, many journalists now reflect the view that the
war has gone horribly wrong," Kurtz writes.

"Consider the questions asked at Bush's
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2006/03/20060321-4.html" target=" news
conference last week.

"ABC's Jessica Yellin: 'Are you willing to sacrifice American lives to keep
Iraqis from killing one another?'

"CNN's Kathleen Koch: 'Do you believe [Defense Secretary Donald] Rumsfeld should
resign?'

"USA Today's David Jackson: 'Are you concerned that the Iraq experience is going
to embolden authoritarian regimes in the Middle East and make it tougher to get
democracy there?'

"Bob Deans of Cox News: "Is there a point at which having the American forces in
Iraq becomes more a part of the problem than a part of the solution?"

"The Washington Post's Jim VandeHei: Polls show 'a growing number of Americans
are questioning the trustworthiness of you and this White House. Does that
concern you?'

"Hearst columnist Helen Thomas: 'Your decision to invade Iraq has caused the
deaths of thousands of Americans and Iraqis, wounds of Americans and Iraqis for
a lifetime. Every reason given, publicly at least, has turned out not to be
true.' "

On CNN, Kurtz asked former White House correspondent Frank Sesno: "Frank Sesno,
you heard those questions. To people sitting at home, what is the cumulative
effect of hearing reporters ask those questions?

"FRANK SESNO, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: Probably for the people sitting at home
the cumulative effect, Howie, is that there they go again: the journalists doing
what they do best, pounding away, badgering the witness, sounding overly
negative. To those in the -- in the press room, however, it's their job. And it
is also an expression of the frustration of reporters who try to cover the White
House to get, frankly, a straight answer."

Kurtz seems to be concerned that people will think the media is being too
partisan, or is piling on, and that there could be a backlash. But the media
should never shy away from the questions of the day for any reason.

There is absolutely nothing wrong with asking the president tough questions --
unless of course the primary goal is maintaining appearances, rather than trying
to report the news.

Presidential press conferences may have turned into spectator sports for media
critics -- amateur and professional alike -- but they are not a game.
Particularly now, trying to get the president to answer important questions is
deadly serious business. And anyone suggesting that reporters should back off
because it looks unseemly is missing the point entirely.

Indeed, White House reporters should get even tougher. They should follow up on
their own questions and each others'. And they should not hesitate to demand --
on behalf of the American public -- straight answers rather than the same old
timeworn talking points that the public has already dismissed as unresponsive,
irrelevant and unconvincing.

Kurtz's question was not so well-received by two of his other guests: Richard
Wolffe of Newsweek and Pamela Hess of UPI.

"KURTZ: Richard Wolffe, you heard those questions. Were you at the briefing? It
sounded like the reporters were somewhere between skeptical and hostile towards
the war effort.

"WOLFFE: Well, for starts, it's the three-year anniversary of the war. So it was
inevitable that the questions about Iraq were going to dominate. But they're
also reflecting public opinion.

"At 29 percent approval on the war, the president has lost about a quarter of
his own base. So it's not like reporters have cooked this up. There are deep
concerns in the country about the direction of the war. Opinion has turned
against the war and the question of whether it was worth it. And reporters
reflect what their audiences are interested in. . . .

"It's the third anniversary of the war in Iraq, of the invasion in Iraq. As I
said, were people obsessed about it? Sure. Is it the biggest thing in American
life right now? Yes. It's costing a huge amount in blood and treasure."

"HESS: Just to ask a question implies negativity, because it is questioning of
authority. So people will automatically see all of those questions as negative,
even though they're not. They're just questions asking for information. Are you
willing to sacrifice lives to stop a civil war? Answer the question.

"KURTZ: Right, but there is a cumulative effect that comes. . . .

"HESS: Sure.

"KURTZ: . . . across the screen when there are so many in succession."

By contrast, National Journal media critic
http://nationaljournal.com/powers.htm" target="  William Powers writes:
"President Bush is in a terrible mess right now. Iraq is a thousand times more
significant than Clinton's worst scandal. Yet the pitch of the Washington war
coverage doesn't approach that of the Clinton impeachment. The press corps seems
weary and beaten down. Somehow, even when this president is riding low with the
public, he still has a way of making the journalists who cover him seem small
and powerless -- as if they fear that the mandate he claimed after the 2004
election is still firmly in place.

"It isn't, and this week it became clear that if the journalists don't realize
this, nonjournalists do. News outlets reported that in Bush's travels around the
country, he has been encountering more hardball questions from ordinary
citizens. In a headline, USA Today called these meetings 'feisty forums.'

"The day before his White House news conference, Bush spoke to one such group in
Cleveland, and a number of war zingers reportedly came his way. At the news
conference -- where only Helen Thomas seemed to be in an Alpha mood -- one
reporter told Bush how unhappy those feisty Clevelanders seemed about the war,
as if this gave his question heft. And it did."

There it was, right on the front page of The Washington Post on Saturday --
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/03/24/AR2006032402248.
html" target=" Michael Powell writing from Holyoke, Mass: "To drive through the
mill towns and curling country roads here is to journey into New England's
impeachment belt. Three of this state's 10 House members have called for the
investigation and possible impeachment of President Bush.

"Thirty miles north, residents in four Vermont villages voted earlier this month
at annual town meetings to buy more rock salt, approve school budgets, and
impeach the president for lying about Iraq having weapons of mass destruction
and for sanctioning torture. . . .

"It would be a considerable overstatement to say the fledgling impeachment
movement threatens to topple a presidency -- there are just 33 House co-sponsors
of a motion by Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) to investigate and perhaps
impeach Bush, and a large majority of elected Democrats think it is a bad idea.
But talk bubbles up in many corners of the nation, and on the Internet, where
several Web sites have led the charge, giving liberals an outlet for anger that
has been years in the making."

For those of you who haven't been paying attention, Powell explains: "The
argument for an impeachment inquiry -- which draws support from prominent
constitutional scholars such as Harvard's Laurence H. Tribe and former Reagan
deputy attorney general Bruce Fein -- centers on Bush's conduct before and after
the invasion of Iraq in 2003.

"It is argued that Bush and his officials conspired to manufacture evidence of
weapons of mass destruction to persuade Congress to approve the invasion."

Furthermore: "Critics point to Bush's approval of harsh interrogations of
prisoners captured Iraq and Afghanistan, tactics that human rights groups such
as Amnesty International say amount to torture. Bush also authorized warrantless
electronic surveillance of telephone calls and e-mails, subjecting possibly
thousands of Americans each year to eavesdropping since 2001."

http://impeachpac.org/?q=taxonomy/term/18" target=" Impeachpac.org is keeping
tabs on the local impeachment resolutions.

Some of the elements of this particular memo have been reported before, but
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/27/international/europe/27memo.html?ei=5090&en=7c
30d11fe0c8c923&ex=1301115600&partner=rssuserland&emc=rss&pagewanted=all"
target=" Don Van Natta Jr. has many more details in today's New York Times, and
yet more evidence that in spite of his public statements, Bush was committed to
war long before the attack was launched.

"During a private two-hour meeting in the Oval Office on Jan. 31, 2003, [Bush]
made clear to Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain that he was determined to
invade Iraq without [a second United Nations] resolution, or even if
international arms inspectors failed to find unconventional weapons, said a
confidential memo about the meeting written by Mr. Blair's top foreign policy
adviser and reviewed by The New York Times. . . .

"The memo indicates the two leaders envisioned a quick victory and a transition
to a new Iraqi government that would be complicated, but manageable. Mr. Bush
predicted that it was 'unlikely there would be internecine warfare between the
different religious and ethnic groups.' Mr. Blair agreed with that assessment.

"The memo also shows that the president and the prime minister acknowledged that
no unconventional weapons had been found inside Iraq. Faced with the possibility
of not finding any before the planned invasion, Mr. Bush talked about several
ways to provoke a confrontation, including a proposal to paint a United States
surveillance plane in the colors of the United Nations in hopes of drawing fire,
or assassinating Mr. Hussein.

"Those proposals were first reported last month in the
http://politics.guardian.co.uk/iraq/story/0,,1700881,00.html" target=" British
press , but the memo does not make clear whether they reflected Mr. Bush's
extemporaneous suggestions, or were elements of the government's plan. . . .

"The January 2003 memo is the latest in a series of secret memos produced by top
aides to Mr. Blair that summarize private discussions between the president and
the prime minister. Another group of British memos, including the so-called
Downing Street memo written in July 2002, showed that some senior British
officials had been concerned that the United States was determined to invade
Iraq, and that the 'intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy'
by the Bush administration to fit its desire to go to war."

http://www.boston.com/news/nation/washington/articles/2006/03/24/bush_shuns_patr
iot_act_requirement?mode=PF" target=" Charlie Savage writes in the Boston Globe:
"When President Bush signed the reauthorization of the USA Patriot Act this
month, he included an
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2006/03/20060309-8.html" target="
addendum saying that he did not feel obliged to obey requirements that he inform
Congress about how the FBI was using the act's expanded police powers. . . .

"Bush signed the bill with fanfare at a White House ceremony March 9, calling it
'a piece of legislation that's vital to win the war on terror and to protect the
American people.' But after the reporters and guests had left, the White House
quietly issued a 'signing statement,' an official document in which a president
lays out his interpretation of a new law.

"In the statement, Bush said that he did not consider himself bound to tell
Congress how the Patriot Act powers were being used and that, despite the law's
requirements, he could withhold the information if he decided that disclosure
would 'impair foreign relations, national security, the deliberative process of
the executive, or the performance of the executive's constitutional duties.'"

In an also unnoticed-at-the-time
http://leahy.senate.gov/press/200603/031506c.html" target=" statement on March
15, Senator Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) wrote: "The President's signing statement
poses two profound threats to our constitutional system of checks and balances.
First, his unorthodox but repeatedly invoked unitary executive theory is really
a unilateral executive theory. This President appears to believe that he can
pick and choose which laws to obey and need never submit to congressional
oversight. . . .

"Second, this President appears to hold a strange and novel view of the
appropriate role of the President in the legislative process. . . .

"These signing statements are a clever device if Congress will let him get away
with them. As he did with the torture legislation, the President can publicly
take credit for signing popular legislation while in fact fighting it all the
way and refusing to commit to abide by it. At the same time, he can sidestep a
veto override."

The Smoking Gun Web site electrified the blogosphere on Thursday with a copy of
Vice President Cheney's "
http://www.thesmokinggun.com/archive/0322061cheney1.html" target=" downtime
requirements " when staying at a hotel. Among them: four cans of Diet Caffeine
Sprite, and all TVs tuned to Fox News.

And no pressure, but "If the Hotel would like to put a gift in the Suite please
let the Advance Office know ASAP."

http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/N3O222149.htm" target=" Barbara Liston
writes for Reuters from Florida, where "Cheney on Friday rejected charges by
Democrats that the Bush administration was mishandling Iraq and said: 'If they
are competent to fight this war, then I ought to be singing on American Idol.' "

http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/metropolitan/3744991.html" target=" Jennifer
Radcliffe writes in the Houston Chronicle: "As Barbara Bush spent two hours
championing her son's software company at a Houston middle school Thursday
morning, a watchdog group questioned whether the former first lady should be
allowed to channel a donation to Neil Bush's Ignite Learning company through
Houston's Hurricane Katrina relief fund.

" 'It's strange that the former first lady would want to do this. If her son's
having a rough time of it, couldn't she write him a check?' said Daniel
Borochoff, founder of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a Chicago-based
charity watchdog group. 'Maybe she isn't aware that people could frown upon
this.'

"Some critics said donations to a tax-deductible charitable fund shouldn't
benefit the Bush family. Others questioned whether the Houston Independent
School District violated district policy by allowing the company to host a
promotional event on campus."

http://www.usnews.com/usnews/news/articles/060403/3ceo.htm" target=" Kenneth T.
Walsh writes in U.S. News about our first MBA president: " 'The problem with the
CEO style of management,' says a Republican who advises the White House, 'is
there has to be delegation, and it's easy to let it slip too far.' Critics say
the small group of senior aides who've been given lots of authority may be
trying to do too much. These officials -- [Chief of Staff Andy] Card, counselor
Dan Bartlett, Deputy Chief of Staff and political strategist Karl Rove, Deputy
Chief of Staff Joe Hagin -- 'are also President Bush's personal assistants and
spend a great deal of time tending to him . . . so the management is weak,' says
the adviser. [Rutgers political scientist Ross] Baker says these aides seem to
be 'mind guards' for the president, rather than policymakers, administrators, or
thinkers.

"And aside from his inner circle, Bush is said to be distant from the rest of
his staff, jeopardizing morale. Just as important, many members of Congress
complain that they don't get their phone calls returned or their ideas
considered in the West Wing."

http://www.usnews.com/usnews/news/articles/060403/3ceo.b.htm" target=" Kim Clark
writes in a companion piece that "some business leaders worry that Bush may not
be applying some of B-school's most important lessons and may be suffering
instead from all-too-typical M.B.A. flaws, such as overconfidence."

http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/nationworld/2002891895_apocalypse27.html"
target=" Sabrina Eaton writes for Newhouse News Service: "Bush seemed flummoxed
by the question Jan Roller asked after the president's speech last Monday in
Cleveland, where he was defending his handling of the Iraq war.

"Citing the newly released book 'American Theocracy' by former Nixon
administration official Kevin Phillips, Roller asked whether Bush agrees with
'prophetic Christians' who view the Iraq war and the rise of terrorism as 'signs
of the apocalypse,' the end-of-the-world cataclysm described in the Bible's Book
of Revelation.

" 'I haven't really thought of it that way,' Bush told her after a long pause,
adding that he hadn't previously heard the theory. 'I guess I'm more of a
practical fellow.' . . .

"Bush critics, including Phillips, contend the president feigned confusion. Had
the president embraced the controversial views of his religious backers, the
critics say, he would have alienated moderates."

http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/25/politics/25laura.html" target=" Elisabeth
Bumiller writes in the New York Times: "President Bush has said he is listening
to advice about his staff from a lot of people, and one of them is evidently his
wife.

"In an http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2006/03/20060324-3.html" target="
interview with Larry King broadcast on CNN on Friday night, Laura Bush said that
she advised her husband regularly on personnel, and she suggested that she had
weighed in on the continuing calls from Republicans for new blood in the West
Wing."

Today, http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/27/politics/27letter.html" target="
Bumiller writes that the first lady may be leading by example, as "a close look
at the first lady's office also shows that she has replaced her entire high
command after five years in charge of the East Wing."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         March 27, 2006 Monday 06:48 PM

Immigration Reform Proposals

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 307 words

HIGHLIGHT: The U.S. Senate takes up immigration reform legislation this week.
The following are five key facts about the proposals:


The U.S. Senate takes up immigration reform legislation this week. The following
are five key facts about the proposals:

* President Bush's proposal for a temporary worker program has put him at odds
with many in his own Republican Party. Bush insists it is a legal way to fill
the jobs that Americans are unwilling to do, a position supported by business.
Labor groups are wary of a guest worker program that does not provide a path to
permanent residence saying it would create an underclass of workers.

* The Senate Judiciary Committee is pushing to craft a bill that would tighten
border security and require employers to verify the status of workers. The bill
would establish a temporary worker program and provide a way for some of the 12
million undocumented aliens in the country to legalize their status.

* The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation last December that has
drawn widespread protests. It focuses on border security and enforcement. It
makes undocumented presence in the country a felony and calls for construction
of a fence along parts of the U.S. border with Mexico. It also would require
employers to check the status of employees. It includes no temporary program
favored by Bush.

* Many conservative Republicans want to limit congressional action this year to
just border security and enforcement and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist plans
to bring his own border security legislation to the floor for a vote if the
Senate Judiciary Committee fails to produce broader legislation.

* The final fate of immigration reform is uncertain this year. If the Senate
enacts comprehensive reform that includes a guest worker program, it could face
considerable opposition by House conservatives. At least 70 House Republicans
have said they will oppose anything that smacks of amnesty.

-- Reuters

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        April 11, 2006 Tuesday 01:00 PM

Immigration Rallies Held Nationwide;
Thousands Gather in D.C. to Rally for Immigrant Rights

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Director of Federal Policy, National Immigration Law Center

LENGTH: 3382 words

HIGHLIGHT: Josh Bernstein , director of Federal Policy at the National
Immigration Law Center , was online Tuesday, April 11, at 1 p.m. ET to discuss
the immigration rallies in D.C. and around the nation Monday and the growing
debate about the status of immigrants in the U.S. Founded in 1979, the NILC is
"dedicated to protecting and promoting the rights of low income immigrants and
their family members."



Josh Bernstein , director of Federal Policy at the National Immigration Law
Center , was online

Tuesday, April 11, at 1 p.m. ET to discuss the immigration rallies in D.C. and
around the nation Monday and the growing debate about the status of immigrants
in the U.S. Founded in 1979, the NILC is "dedicated to protecting and promoting
the rights of low income immigrants and their family members."

The transcript follows.

Read transcripts of recent Live Online discussions with Rep. Tom Tancredo
(R-Colo.) and Univision's
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/discussion/2006/03/29/DI20060329017
19.html" target=" Jorge Ramos.

____________________

Josh Bernstein: Hello friends. This is the first time that I have had the
opportunity to participate in something like this, and I must say, I am very
much looking forward to it.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: The Hispanic community is in the forefront of this
demonstration, but what's missing is the HUGE number of illegal Asian immigrants
coming to America also that's a huge drain on the U.S. Visit any Chinatown
(i.e.. NYC Chinatown) and you'll see people who are illegal immigrants and are
continuing to come over, but are under the radar because they don't care about
immigrant rights because they live in a self enclosed environment. What's being
done or discussed about that issue?

Josh Bernstein: Thank you for your question. The thing to remember here is that
immigrants have always been prominent in American history, in creating this
great nation, and that this is something that is not going to change: immigrants
will be a big part of our future.

Consider the worldwide trend. Migration is increasing everywhere around the
globe, not just here. Europe now has about 8 million unauthorized immigrants a
first for them. Why?

We have a shrinking world: exploding worldwide trade, cheaper travel and the
telecommunications revolution - when goods and services and voices and pictures
stream across borders unimpeded, people will too. These are major historical,
economic, social, technological and demographic trends of our time. We can do
little to change them, and trying to do so would be very costly in resources,
and there would also be a cost to our freedom.

For example, one way to reverse the immigration flow to the U.S. would be if we
had a depression or if we had a military state. Then, people would now want to
come here. But it would be too high a cost.

A better focus would be to accept that immigration is not only a feature of our
past, but also of our future, and to figure out how to make that experience be
as good as possible for immigrants as well as those of us who already live here.
That suggests we should be thinking about how best to integrate immigrants so
that they can more quickly contribute to American fabric. Measures that
criminalize, marginalize, hand stigmatize immigrants are counterproductive.

_______________________

Herndon, Va.: My wife immigrated (legally) to attend college 25+ years ago and
is now a naturalized citizen. So I have many extended relatives and friends who
either have or want to immigrate to America. One friend who owns a retail store
can't bring his 23 year old son because he (the son) doesn't have a college
degree, which seems to be largely the bottom line about immigrating legally.

Naturally, those who jump through numerous hoops to come here legally are
somewhat resentful of those who don't and who lack even basic employable skills
like speaking English.

Shouldn't our immigration policy draw more sensible distinctions about who can
come and stay?

Josh Bernstein: Yes it should. But your question brings up one of the problems
with our current system. Many people who want desperately to come here and who
could contribute to our economy are unable to do so because there is no "line"
for them to get into. We need to create such a line so that we can convert the
current illegal flow into a legal one.

Note that those who oppose immigration reform often say they are speaking for
legal immigrants who "did things the right way". The fact is, that there isn't
so much of a divide between undocumented and legal immigrants as one might
think. In fact, polls of legal immigrants confirm that they overwhelmingly have
a positive view of undocumented immigrants, and strongly support changes in the
law to allow them to earn legal status over time. The reason is that they
understand better than most how dysfunctional our legal immigration system has
become. Obviously, not all of them feel that way, but the vast majority do.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Bernstein:

I recently asked a question to Mr. Mehlman who was also responding to questions
on illegal immigration via The Post. See below. Do you think his solution is a
viable one and if not, why not?, What, in your opinion, is the most appropriate
solution to this issue? Thank you.

DC

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Mehlman:

What exactly is your position with regard to this issue? Also, what, in your
opinion, is most appropriate way to solving this issue? Thank you.

Ira Mehlman: We need to convince people there is no reason to come to the U.S.
illegally, and if they are here, that there is not reason to remain.

We need to crack down on employers and dry up the availability of jobs to people
who are here illegally. We need to limit access to public benefits and services
to emergency ones only.

Over time, people will begin to understand that there is no benefit to crossing
the border illegally and many who are here will get discouraged and leave. Not
all, but many or even most. Not immediately, but over time. There is no law made
by man or God that has 100% compliance, but we can do a lot better than the
chaos that we have now.

Josh Bernstein: I agree that we can do a lot better than the current chaos. But
thereafter our ideas diverge. There is no magic bullet that will solve all of
our immigration policy woes. It will take hard work, common sense, and vision.
Above all, it will take realism. It is not realistic to believe that we can (or
should want to) reverse the flow of immigration. Rather, we should be looking
for ways to convert the illegal flow into a legal one, to integrate those
immigrants who do come here into the U.S. mainstream, and to improve the lives
of all workers, immigrant and native-born.

If we do so, we will find it much easier to enforce our laws because far fewer
people will need to circumvent them (employers or workers). We will also make a
better America, which is the ultimate goal.

_______________________

Hampton, Va.: As I watch the illegal immigrants rally for 'rights', I think
we're seeing a seminal moment in American history: the Latinos are eclipsing the
African Americans as the 'major' minority.

Josh Bernstein: I agree we are watching history. The marchers are carrying signs
that say "we are America" and they are proving their point by participating in
massive numbers in peaceful and idealistic rallies across this nation.

It is very wrong, though, to say that these marches are "eclipsing" those that
went before. Rather, they are building on the marches of yesteryear. Where would
today's immigrants be without the civil rights movement?

Please, friends, neither immigration nor civil rights is an us-versus-them
question. We all benefit if immigrants are treated fairly. I have been amazed
over the years to see the support that most African Americans have given to
efforts to ensure that immigrants are not abused. When immigrant matters are put
to a vote in state initiatives, typically the African American vote is the
strongest one against punitive measures.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Just a clarification, please. Relating to the man above whose
family member could not immigrate to the U.S. because of a lack of a college
degree. So how does one immigrate legally? So many people say that illegals
should have done it legally, so why didn't they? What are the procedures and
criteria the U.S. has for potential immigrants? And why is it seemingly so hard
to do this? I think knowing this would clarify a bit of confusion I and other
people may have about the basics of this issue.

Josh Bernstein: Great question, and one that I can't answer in detail here.
Please visit our Web site (http://www.nilc.org/), or that of the National
Immigration Forum (http://www.immigrationforum.org/" target="
http://www.immigrationforum.org/) for more information.

The short answer, though, is that most people cannot immigrate here unless they
have closes family ties, a high-skilled job here, or are fleeing political,
religious, or other type of persecution. Even those with close family ties
typically have to wait 6, 8, or even 18 years under our current inadequate
system.

So there IS no line for the vast majority of undocumented immigrants to get
into.

_______________________

Parkville, Md.: Mr. Bernstein,

I'd like to thank you and your organization for the work you do on behalf of
society's most exploited populations. I'd also like to make a comment in this
ongoing debate: It seems to me that there is a fair degree of hypocrisy in this
nation when the debate over immigration touches upon the effect that immigrant
labor has upon wages. The simple fact is that many of the same conservatives and
anti-immigrant groups that decry the effect of immigration on wages are loath to
improve lower-class Americans' wages by supporting an increase in the Federal
minimum wage. It extremely disingenuous to, on the one hand, blame immigrants
for low wages, while simultaneously blocking efforts to raise the Federal
minimum wage. If it is true, as opponents of immigration argue, that absent
immigrant labor, wages would be higher and American workers would be falling all
over themselves to pick vegetables, clean houses and build houses, then congress
need only raise the minimum wage to that level and watch Americans flock to
those jobs. The illegal immigration issue would be a non-issue, as employers
would clearly favor the masses of workers with better English skills and clearer
proof of citizenship or legal working status and illegal immigrants would simply
go back to their countries of origin after failing to find jobs here. But I
think that most people, on both sides of the debate, recognize that notion as a
fairy tale.

Josh Bernstein: I agree with you. The best way to raise wages and working
conditions of average Americans is not by hunting down immigrants and building
fences, it is by taking the steps necessary to improve our economy, reduce
inequality, and educate our citizens, provide health care, etc. If you care
about these things, work on them, don't work against immigrants.

_______________________

Annapolis, Md.: Please don't speak for legal immigrants. My father and I are
both legal immigrants and had to jump through lots of hoops to come to the U.S.
My father, a skilled construction worker, took six months to find a job because
construction contractors aren't interested in hiring legal workers. Also, what
makes me angry, is that to come here legally we had to sign all sorts of papers
saying that we will never apply for any public assistance benefits such as
welfare, Medicaid, food stamps, SSI etc (which is fine -- this is not why we
came here), while those who are here illegally receive these benefits freely and
feel that they are entitled to all of them. Please, do not speak for legal
immigrants, because most of us do not support illegal immigration.

Josh Bernstein: I appreciate your sentiments, but it is a myth that undocumented
immigrants can access any benefits that are not available to those who are here
legally or to US citizens. They actually are eligible for far fewer benefits,
limited primarily to those that are provided for humanitarian reasons (e.g.,
emergency health care) or for prudential ones (e.g., testing and treatment for
communicable diseases).

Also, as I said, the question has been polled, and most legal immigrants do not
feel as you do. Sorry.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Your commentary about the immigration issue occasionally resorts
to empty (and slightly sanctimonious) rhetoric about treating immigrants
"fairly" and not "stigmatizing" them. That's fine, but what does it mean in
policy terms? Are you calling for open immigration with no restrictions? If not,
what restrictions are acceptable? Is it then acceptable to deport people who
violate those restrictions?

Josh Bernstein: Fair point. For details that would not fit in this forum, please
see our Web site. In general, though, any serious, pragmatic, realistic solution
must:

* Provide a path to legal status for undocumented who are here

* Reform the system to provide for a more realistic future flow of immigrants to
meet our needs and keep families together

* Accept that immigration is a part of our nation's history and will be a part
of our future.

We are in this together, and it is critical to our joint future to invest in
immigrants rather than criminalizing them.

Providing a path to legal status and reforming the legal system would

* Reduce the incentive to come illegally and

* Greatly reduce the undocumented pool, allowing our existing already overly
harsh enforcement laws to work

Investing in immigrants instead of hunting them down and holding them back would
lead to a more prosperous and democratic future for all Americans.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Regarding benefits for illegals: Isn't it true that as
students they get in-state tuition? The citizen out-of-staters pay higher
tuition and in effect are subsidizing the illegals.

Josh Bernstein: With respect to in-state tuition, some undocumented immigrants
in 9 states can obtain in-state tuition. In general they can't in the other 41.
But to qualify in the 9 states, the immigrants must have attended and graduated
from high school in the state. In other words we are talking about young people
who were brought here at an early age by their parents. Many of these students
are honors students, valedictorians, prize winners, and student leaders. The 9
states that have enacted instate tuition for these young people have concluded
that if these students who grew up in the state (realistically) going to remain
in the U.S., we are all better off if they are educated than if they are not
permitted to complete their education.

There is also bipartisan federal legislation for these young people who have
grown up here, called the DREAM Act, that would allow them to get on a path to
citizenship if they came here years ago as children, complete high school here,
have good moral character, and continue on to college or to serve in the
military.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: If you cut off the resources there would be no more illegal
immigration. Example: No more public school admission, no more health
assistance, fine employers, and fine landlords, don't allow illegal aliens to
buy property. The billed being considered in Congress now is weak to say the
least.

Josh Bernstein: Historically, these kinds of measures have been proven not to
work, absent abhorrent actions that I am sure you would not support. They only
succeed in driving these immigrants and their family members underground. Plus,
undocumented immigrants do not walk around with stars of David on their
foreheads. There would be an enormous cost in freedom and resources to implement
your vision. Is that the kind of America we want to live in?

Remember, the problem is that our current legal immigration system does not
reflect the demands of our economy or the reality of our shrinking world. We
need to adjust our legal immigration system, resolve the status of those who
have come under the current dysfunctional one, and then it will be far easier to
enforce our laws.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: "There is also bipartisan federal legislation for these young
people who have grown up here, called the DREAM Act, that would allow them to
get on a path to citizenship if they came here years ago as children, complete
high school here, have good moral character, and continue on to college or to
serve in the military."

How can you have "good moral character" if you're breaking the law?

Josh Bernstein: "good moral character" is a term of art in immigration law.
These young people I wish you could meet some of them are a terrific group. They
were brought here at a young age, perhaps 1 year old, or 3 or 8, and they have
done what society asked of them. Many don't even know they are undocumented
until they reach their late teens and need to get a drivers' license or apply
for a job. Others know, but it is a vague knowledge that doesn't start to hit
home until they want and need to do the things that their classmates take for
granted.

It is in all of our interest to take their situation off of the table. Why
should we waste Department of Homeland Security resources trying to deport young
honors students who have grown up in the U.S. Also, if allowed to complete their
education and become citizens, they will eventually pay much more in taxes and
cost less in social services and criminal justice. So it would be a windfall for
taxpayers.

_______________________

Reston, Va.: Why is it difficult for people to connect the dots? The most
prosperous cities in the United States are those where the majority of
immigrants are located. This is where you have the Beverly hills, the bluemonts,
the McLean. Take a drive out to West Virginia where there are almost no
immigrants working in construction mostly whites working 9 to 5 and you will see
the future of America without immigrants. It takes about ten years to have a
simple bridge built. Compare for yourself, ask yourself why aren't these states
as prosperous?, it is obvious. The United States would come to a screeching halt
without immigrants. How would it compete with the world?

Josh Bernstein: Thank you. You make an excellent point.

_______________________

Laurel, Md.: What does it mean when some people say that so and so percentage of
illegal immigrants pay taxes? I presume this means income taxes, right? How can
illegal immigrants pay taxes without exposing their status? Is it that the
government accepts the taxes and looks the other way?

Josh Bernstein: Exactly. Being undocumented does not relieve a person from the
requirement to pay taxes, and the IRS is happy to accept the money. Plus, most
undocumented immigrants do not work for cash; they work for regular employers
and their taxes are withheld. The only difference from other workers is that
they can't get any kind of refund or basic benefits in return for the taxes they
pay.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: If illegal workers became legal, wouldn't they not be hired
because employers would be required to pay them minimum wage, which is
significantly more than what they are currently being paid under their illegal
status? Wouldn't this create an incentive for immigrants to prefer being
undocumented?

Josh Bernstein: Good question, but actually, the reverse is true. Employers now
are able to get away with paying some undocumented workers below minimum wage
(and also to exploit them in other ways) because the workers can be intimidated
from exercising their rights. If legalized, they would be able to demand more
like other workers. As a result everyone's wages would rise and conditions would
improve. That is why labor unions are now solidly in support of legalizing
undocumented workers.

_______________________

Josh Bernstein: Thanks to all of you who participated. This has been a great
experience, and I hope to do it again!

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        April 11, 2006 Tuesday 12:00 PM

Immigration Rallies Held Nationwide;
Thousands Gather in D.C. to Rally for Immigrant Rights

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Media Director, Federation for American Immigration Reform

LENGTH: 3434 words

HIGHLIGHT: Ira Mehlman, media director for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), was online Tuesday, April 11, at noon ET to discuss
the immigration rallies in D.C. and around the nation Monday and the growing
debate about the status of immigrants in the U.S. FAIR is a "national nonprofit
immigration reform group with some 200,000 members and supporters around the
country. The organization supports enforcement of U.S. immigration laws and
believes that U.S. immigration policies should serve the economic, social,
environmental and other interests of the American public."



Ira Mehlman, media director for the Federation for American Immigration Reform
(FAIR), was online

Tuesday, April 11, at noon ET to discuss the immigration rallies in D.C. and
around the nation Monday and the growing debate about the status of immigrants
in the U.S. FAIR is a "national nonprofit immigration reform group with some
200,000 members and supporters around the country. The organization supports
enforcement of U.S. immigration laws and believes that U.S. immigration policies
should serve the economic, social, environmental and other interests of the
American public."

The transcript follows.

Read transcripts of recent Live Online discussions with Rep. Tom Tancredo
(R-Colo.) and Univision's
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/discussion/2006/03/29/DI20060329017
19.html" target=" Jorge Ramos.

____________________

Rockville, Md.: I lived in Texas when the 'bracero" program was in effect and
was happy that it resulted in better living conditions for the Mexicans and a
source of workers for the farms. But farms used more people then - 1956-1958.

Now, I tell people "If you want to retire soon, thank a Mexican." This person,
or someone from further south, is helping our aging population cope.

I want to move away from the current environment to a legalized guest worker
program. Also, our two Mexican workers in the 50's wanted to return to Mexico.
they were funding and supporting ranches in Mexico with their wages. They had
something to go back to.

Ira Mehlman: If a generation of relatively affluent baby boomers expect that
they will be able to spend their golden years on the golf course being supported
by low wage immigrant workers who will have to fork over an ever larger share of
the meager earnings to Social Security, they are going to be in for a rude
surprise.

In the meantime, many of the resources that might have been used to help
seniors, will have to be allocated to providing for these low wage workers and
their families.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md.: Why do immigrants feel that they have rights in a country
where they are not a citizen? Why should Americans feel an obligation to extend
rights to people who do not respect our laws?

There is no debate here!

People have illegally INVADED our country, and we need to remove them and force
them to enter this country like every one of our ancestors did, the legal way!
Let's not make excuses, because this is an INVASION, and our history will
forever be changed if we allow this to continue!

Ira Mehlman: Every nation has a sovereign right to protect its borders and its
way of life. Immigrants -- legal and illegal -- act out of self-interest. There
is no reason why Americans cannot also act out of self-interest in formulating
and enforcing immigration policies.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Yesterday, a friend and I left work momentarily to watch the
march for immigration rights proceed down 16th St, NW. From a distance we could
see just a few people milling around the traffic circle. As we approached, we
realized that the marchers--thousands and thousands of them--were going through
an underpass. We watched from a railing as they waved flags and chanted
passionately in Spanish and English. A veteran of anti-war and women's rights
marches, this was perhaps the first that brought tears to my eyes. How could I
not become emotional at the site of so many fellow Americans taking advantage of
a truly American right--to make public their opinions and highlight their needs?
I just wanted to tell you that yesterday's march will not leave me for a long
time. I am so proud of the work you are doing.

Ira Mehlman: The question is, Who is marching to protect the millions of
American workers who used to earn solid middle class wages doing many of the
jobs now being done by illegal immigrants? Many people are justifiably outraged
when companies outsource American jobs to lower wage workers overseas, but find
no problem with "in-sourcing" low wage foreign workers to do jobs that must
remain in the U.S.

_______________________

Oxon Hill, Md.: Rep. Tancredo claims that illegal do not pay taxes because they
are all paid under the table - cash. Not true. There are many illegals who pay
their taxes and also medical insurance - just like citizens. My question though
is, after all the illegals are sent home, who will pay those huge credit card
bills and others that these illegals have incurred? There is bound to be a
domino effect if it is at all feasible to deport all illegals.

Ira Mehlman: Tancredo has never said all illegal aliens are paid under the
table. But clearly many are -- no one would dispute that.

The attraction of illegal immigrant labor is that they work for low wages. Thus,
even those who are paying taxes are paying them on very low incomes. If you
consider that the cost of educating a child in the U.S. today is about $6,000 a
year, if that low-wage illegal puts just one child in a public school, he is
necessarily using more in government services than he is paying for in taxes.

_______________________

Reston, Va.: I am a naturalized citizen who immigrated here legally. I don't
understand why people are turning this into an anti-immigration and xenophobia
issue. This is about stopping illegal entry into our country. Then you hear the
line, "they do the work no American wants to do." My father scrubbed toilets and
washed dishes as an American. My mother works as a cashier at a 7-11 as an
American. The coal miners risking their lives so that we can have electricity to
watch TVs are Americans. They have no respect for the law. They can't obtain
drivers licenses but they drive anyway...without insurance. So what's next?
Nothing is stopping them from doing any of this.

Ira Mehlman: American workers are routinely insulted in a way that would not be
tolerated if those same assertions were made about any other group of people.
Americans work at all sorts of difficult and dirty jobs. What they expect is a
dignified wage in return and we should not have government policies in place
that deliberately undermine the ability of working Americans to support
themselves and their families.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Would you be willing to break any laws to prevent your child
from living in poverty?

Ira Mehlman: Would you demand that the law be enforced if the person breaking it
was preventing you from keeping your own child out of poverty? Many Americans
who used to do the jobs now being done by illegal aliens have a right to be
protected as well.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: What is your reaction to Americans gathering to burn the
Mexican flag?

Ira Mehlman: There is no justification for desecrating other people's flags.

_______________________

Plainsboro, N.J.: I am first generation immigrant - came in legally 26 years ago
- naturalized citizen. I support legal immigration that can be changed based on
the needs of our country. We are 200+ million legal citizens and residents who
want the laws of the land to be enforced and obeyed. Why is no one mobilizing a
similar grass roots march to show the politicians that they have to hear us -
not just the law breakers

Ira Mehlman: American citizens and legal immigrants tend to get their message
across at the ballot box. It does not have the same dramatic impact that mass
street demonstrations have, but the politicians are aware that the folks back
home, according to every poll, are vehemently opposed to amnesty for illegal
immigrants.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: I used to feel that the illegal immigrants should be sent
home and made to come into the US in a legal manner. However, I saw a movie
called 'A Day Without a Mexican' on cable one day and it really made me think
hard about the U.S. policies. I now have a lighter attitude concerning
immigration reform but I still feel that the folks coming in, if they want to
stay, need to learn English.

Ira Mehlman: All of the jobs now being done by people from Mexico and elsewhere
used to be done by American workers. These are not jobs that Americans won't do;
they are jobs Americans used to do for better wages.

No society can flourish if it creates an entire class of exploitable people.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Mehlman,

Do you believe that there should be an increase to the minimum wage? By many of
your responses, it seems that way.

Ira Mehlman: Yes, we should have an increase in the minimum wage. But, unless we
also control the supply of labor, we will become a nation of minimum wage
worker, working at minimally acceptable conditions. The minimum wage should be a
floor, not a ceiling.

Also, if we do not enforce laws against hiring illegal immigrants, raising the
minimum wage will encourage even more people to come here illegally.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Mr. Mehlman:

What exactly is your position with regard to this issue? Also, what, in your
opinion, is most appropriate way to solving this issue? Thank you.

Ira Mehlman: We need to convince people there is no reason to come to the U.S.
illegally, and if they are here, that there is not reason to remain.

We need to crack down on employers and dry up the availability of jobs to people
who are here illegally. We need to limit access to public benefits and services
to emergency ones only.

Over time, people will begin to understand that there is no benefit to crossing
the border illegally and many who are here will get discouraged and leave. Not
all, but many or even most. Not immediately, but over time. There is no law made
by man or God that has 100% compliance, but we can do a lot better than the
chaos that we have now.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I understand the need for tighter control of the borders to
prevent low-wage workers coming to the US and depressing the minimum wage.

My question pertains to the illegal immigrants already present in the United
States. Do you propose we deport those immigrants back to their respective
countries? If so, would that not place a heavier burden on the economy than say
legalizing those immigrants and having them pay backtaxes and learn English?

If you do not support deporting immigrants, wouldn't asking immigrants to pay
"all" their backtaxes end up depressing and impoverishing many of those illegal
immigrants? Would it not make sense to have them pay a portion of their
backtaxes, learn English while also clamping down on border security?

Ira Mehlman: We need to convince as many illegal aliens as possible to leave on
their own by making it very difficult to work or collect benefits here.

As far as back taxes, how are we going to establish what they earned and
therefore how much they owe? It will have to rely on their own attestations of
what they earned. I'd like to just tell the IRS how much I made and then pay
taxes on that amount. Wouldn't you?

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Your claim that immigrants take jobs away from Americans is
just a fallacy. The employment rate is very high. That indicates that employment
in the U.S. is running at very efficient levels, even given 12 million illegal
immigrants. Removing the immigrants may provide short term gains, but in the
long term, the loss of productivity and inflation that resulted would make the
U.S. a much worse, and not better, place to live and work.

Ira Mehlman: The official unemployment rate does not include people who have
dropped out of the labor market, working part-time, working at multiple jobs to
earn as much as they used to earn at one, people who are self employed (a
euphemism for occasionally employed in most cases).

If Americans were employed at higher wages the price of goods and services to
consumers would probably rise moderately. But we are paying these costs anyway.
They're just coming out of a different pocket. As taxpayers, we subsidize low
wage workers, so we probably end up paying more in the end because we have
gotten the government involved.

Cheap goods is not a justification for exploitation in any event. At least not
since Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I think our leaders created this situation because they
couldn't be honest with the American people and say, "we want to allow more
immigrants into the country legally". They knew, especially given the U.S.'s
aging population and low birth rate, that increased immigration was beneficial
to the U.S. economy in that it would boost GDP and reduce inflation. But our
leaders were too chicken to explain that position to the U.S. people (perhaps
afraid that xenophobes would run them out of office).

So they relaxed border enforcement and created the current issue. Let's deal
with that part of the equation honestly first. Illegal immigrants are here
because they were all but invited (and, except for generating some complaints
about English skills, have been beneficial to the country). Why not recognize
that, allow them to become citizens, seal off the borders, and increase -legal-
immigration for the future.

Ira Mehlman: The question is, who did the inviting? The benefits associated with
immigration tend to be concentrated in the hands of the immigrants themselves
and their direct employers. For the rest of the population there is no benefit
and for lower skilled workers in the U.S. there is a significant harm.

We need to define who the "we" we're talking about is.

_______________________

Re: your position: I appreciate your thoughtful reply to Washington, DC
regarding the specifics of your position. You did not mention what to do with
the folks currently here that entered illegally. What is your opinion on how to
handle those folks. I am also curious about how to handle those that over stay
their various visa types.

Ira Mehlman: We need to make it clear that they will not benefit by remaining.
That means drying up jobs and limiting benefits. Deportation should also be an
option, but realistically, we will only be able to deport a small percentage,
the rest will have to be discouraged to a point where they give up and go home.

People who overstay their visas and people who sneak across the border should be
treated no differently. They are all breaking the same laws.

_______________________

Montpelier, Vt.: One of the reasons that we don't see waves of illegal Canadians
entering this country is that there are viable job markets in Canada...what are
your feelings about what impact the US Congress can have on the Mexican
government to influence Mr. Fox to stop the outsourcing of Mexican jobs
overseas?

Do you feel that the U.S. should take the first step in bringing to a halt Corn
exportation to Mexico, causing Mexico to grow their own?

Do you feel that U.S. employers who hire or use illegal immigrants should be
fined? What methods are being used by employers that are thwarting efforts to
detect illegal immigrant employee hiring?

Thanks

Ira Mehlman: One of the reasons that Mexico has never had the incentive to
reform its corrupt political and economic system is that the U.S. has provided a
safety valve for its unhappy, unemployed population. They send millions of
dissatisfied people to this country, we provide for their needs while they're
here, and the immigrants send $20 billion a year back to Mexico in remittances.
Why should they change anything?

Clearly we need to rethink trade policies like NAFTA. It has not delivered on
its promises. It is making rich people in Mexico and the U.S. richer,
undermining the American middle class and making poor Mexicans even poorer. Just
because you attach the word "free" to something, doesn't automatically make it
good. Economies should serve the needs and interests of people, not the other
way around.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: Can anyone tell me what the proposed legislation would mean for
immigrants who do not have permanent legal status but currently have their green
card application pending with Immigration?

Ira Mehlman: Given the bureaucratic nightmare of processing 12 million amnesty
applications (and countless millions more fraudulent ones) there will be
absolute chaos. The senators promoting this hare-brained amnesty scheme openly
admit that they have no idea how it will be managed and executed. Kind of
reminds you of how they planned the war in Iraq.

_______________________

Blacksburg, Va.: Reading all the entries and questions I'd like to focus on the
other point of the proposed legislation,... convicting family members, church
parishes etc for the assisting of "illegal" immigrants? Can you please explain
to me what benefit comes from this?

Ira Mehlman: This is a red herring. No one will be prosecuted for being a Good
Samaritan. However, there are religious organizations that are actively involved
in aiding, harboring and transporting people who are in this country illegally.
They may believe that they are answering to a higher authority, but no
individual and no institution can be above the law.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Don't our labor laws and employment policies need to be
addressed along with immigration policies? Americans are not willing to pay $8
for a quart of tomatoes. Our demand for lower prices pushes wages down so that
farmers can make a profit. Many citizens are not willing to work for the
depressed wages. The supply for labor then comes from illegal aliens. It doesn't
seem to me that we can have it both ways--high wages across the board and cheap
goods/food supply/services et cetera. How do you see the labor policies fitting
in with immigration reform?

Ira Mehlman: Tomatoes would not cost $8 a quart. First of all, labor is about a
10% component of the price you pay for produce at the supermarket. Thus, if we
doubled every farmworker's wages a dollar's worth of tomatoes today would cost
you $1.10 tomorrow. Second, many crops picked by hand in the U.S. are harvested
by machines in other places because farmers here have no incentive to invest in
expensive capital improvements. Forcing up the price of farm labor could
actually result in cheaper produce in the long run.

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: Considering that the Democratic party is mostly dominated by people
who see this as a civil rights issue and the Republicans who see an inexpensive
labor supply, where is the political will for your position most likely to reach
office holders?

Ira Mehlman: And you wonder why the American public is fed up with both parties?

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: All an employee has to show to an employer is a Social
Security card and a drivers license. These documents are routinely forged and
duplicated. Employers have payrolls that include multiple employees with the
same or similar last name/address/ssn. But as long as the employee presents ID,
the employer is not required to determine the accuracy of that ID. Big loophole
and everyone is in on the game!

Ira Mehlman: There is no technological reason why we can't have a Social
Security card that can be verified the same way as your credit card or your ATM
card. If the government wanted to protect American workers and crack down on
employers who hire illegal immigrants the tools are available. The problem is a
lack of will, not a lack of technology.

_______________________

Maryland : Should we change the law such that an illegal alien who gives birth
here does not automatically claim citizenship for the child?

Ira Mehlman: We absolutely should. The 14th amendment was intended to grant
citizenship to the emancipated slaves after the Civil War. The framers never
intended for people to come here illegally and give birth to instant U.S.
citizens. There are many constitutional scholars who argue that the policy can
be changed without amending the constitution.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Thank you all for joining us today.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Let the Debate Begin -- Again

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 543 words


IT WAS CERTAINLY comprehensive, touching on a wide range of policies. It was
rightly made in Arizona, where the issues at stake are the most controversial.
Nevertheless, it's impossible not to feel jaded about  President Bush's speech
Monday  on immigration reform. The president has, after all, proposed
immigration reforms before, most notably the creation of a new temporary visa
system for foreign workers. When he did so in January 2004, we welcomed his
remarks, vague though they were, on the grounds that they might start a great
national debate. That never happened: The president, then running for
reelection, encountered outrage from immigration opponents in his own party and
abandoned the issue. We're glad he's now brought it up again, but will a
president with so much less political capital spend it on an issue this
difficult?

Still, if Mr. Bush is in a weaker position than he was the last time around,
other factors offer  more grounds for optimism. For one thing, there are several
serious immigration reform proposals in Congress, including a bill authored by
Sens.  John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), another by Sens.
John Cornyn (R-Tex.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), and several by Sen. Chuck Hagel
(R-Neb.). The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), has pledged to
increase border security. There are matching proposals and a similar level of
interest in the House. The issue has also changed from  one that politicians
preferred to avoid to one that they have no choice but to face. Arguments about
border control now take place in Fairfax and Montgomery counties as well as in
Tucson, El Paso and pretty much everywhere else.

It is also beginning to seem possible, as Tamar Jacoby of the Manhattan
Institute puts it, to "thread the needle," to satisfy at least some of the
president's restrictionist opponents with tougher border controls while at the
same time dealing realistically with the fact that the American economy  depends
on immigrant labor. The president's speech pointed in that direction. He
advocated the expedited deportation of captured illegal immigrants, more Border
Patrol agents, and equipment and efforts to combat document fraud. He also put
his proposal for temporary visas firmly in that security context: "By creating a
legal channel for those who enter America to do an honest day's labor, we would
reduce the number of workers trying to sneak across the border."

The president avoided the toughest issue: what to do with the 11 million illegal
immigrants who live and work here already and who won't apply for legal status
unless they believe they will  get it. He said he opposed creating an "automatic
path to citizenship" for them  --  and then punted the issue to Congress. The
hope now must be in common sense: Recent political campaigns in Arizona have
shown that voters made aware of the economic and political consequences of
different immigration reforms are less likely to advocate mass deportations or
the construction of a new Berlin Wall on the Rio Grande, and are more likely to
support practical solutions. If nothing else, we'll therefore repeat, more
cautiously, what we wrote almost two years ago: We hope a consequential debate
on immigration has finally begun.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              133 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Soldier's Last Impression;
After Son's Death, Angry Mother Joins Lawmakers to Ease Citizenship Process

BYLINE: Sudarsan Raghavan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1074 words

DATELINE: RANDALLSTOWN, Md. Dec. 6


Army Spec. Kendell K. Frederick's U.S. citizenship plaque is not proudly
displayed on his parents' wall. Instead, it's buried in a pile of military and
immigration documents they find difficult to read.

It's dated Oct. 19, 2005. But that's not when the 21-year-old Trinidad native
took part in a citizenship ceremony. It was the day he was killed by a roadside
bomb in Iraq. The sole reason Frederick, a generator mechanic, was on that road
was to give his fingerprints to become a U.S. citizen. It was only his second
convoy outside the gates of Forward Operating Base Speicher in Tikrit.

"To me, it was just a slap in the face," his mother, Michelle Murphy, said
yesterday, referring to the plaque that arrived on the family's doorstep two
weeks ago.

Murphy says her son should never have been on the road. As a U.S. soldier
serving in Iraq, Frederick was eligible to become a U.S. citizen within two or
three months after immigration officials began processing his application. But a
series of errors by immigration officials, Murphy says, delayed action for
months.

In the end, he was told that fingerprints he had given earlier would not be
accepted  --  and that he had to give them again if he wanted to become an
American. That meant a day trip to a logistic support base near Balad, about 50
miles north of Baghdad.

"He was excited to know that he had the opportunity to leave Iraq as a U.S.
citizen," Staff Sgt. Adrian Davis wrote last month in a letter to Murphy. Davis
had helped Frederick with his citizenship application and spoke to him the day
before his death.

The explosion occurred on the entrance road to Speicher, just as Frederick's
convoy was returning home.

At a news conference yesterday, Murphy stood side by side with Sen. Barbara A.
Mikulski (D-Md.), Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.) and other elected officials as
they called for changes to the citizenship process for active-duty soldiers,
including new legislation in Frederick's name to make the process easier.

They also demanded that Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff  --  whose agency oversees immigration  --  apologize to Murphy for her
son's death.

"He was serving his nation, and that nation that he was serving did not serve
him," Mikulski said. "He took that test of citizenship every single day when he
was in the line of fire."

Only troops who hold green cards can serve in the military, and today, there are
an estimated 40,000 active-duty soldiers in this category. At least 3,200 are
currently serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, and an estimated 2,800 have
citizenship applications in the pipeline.

Immigration officials, Mikulski said, did not send Frederick's application to a
military processing unit. They returned it because he had not included a fee,
although military personnel are not required to pay. After his original
fingerprints were not accepted, Frederick was told to report to an office in
Maryland, although he was serving in Iraq. Immigration employees, Mikulski said,
would not listen to Murphy's response that her son was not in the United States.

Chris Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
yesterday that the agency shared the family's grief. But he said the agency was
following proper procedures when it handled Frederick's application.

He said his agency received an incomplete application from Frederick on June 8.
He had checked a box saying he was not in the military and did not enclose the
fee. So it was returned to his parent's Randallstown address, Bentley said.
Frederick's fingerprints also had incomplete information.

"There was no way to verify when and where the fingerprints were taken and who
took the fingerprints," Bentley said. "Because of the security measures we have
in place, that's an automatic rejection."

When the agency learned that Frederick was a soldier in Iraq, it contacted the
military. On Oct. 18, it launched the citizenship process for Frederick, Bentley
said.

The next day Frederick was killed.

In his letter, Davis said the fingerprints had to be resubmitted because they
were taken in Iraq on a red form, which was only for criminals. Bentley said he
had no knowledge about this.

Mikulski said the proposed legislation  --  the Kendell Frederick Citizenship
Assistance Act  --  will go a long way toward clearing up the backlog of
military noncitizen cases and provide "real customer service" for military
personnel, including an exclusive 800 number. Cummings said it would help many
soldiers facing situations similar to Frederick's.

"He spent a long time trying to become a citizen, over a year," Cummings said.
"It took probably five minutes to make him a citizen after he died. You
shouldn't have to die to become a U.S. citizen when you are fighting for the
United States of America."

Frederick was 15 years old when he left Trinidad. Within a year, he had lost his
Caribbean lilt. He loved to draw and listen to rap music. At Randallstown High
School, he joined the Army ROTC. He believed the military was a way to get an
education. By the time he was deployed to Iraq in December 2004, he was trained
as a power generator equipment mechanic. At his memorial service, his comrades
described him as kind and funny, someone who always had a smile on his face.

On Veterans Day last month, Murphy got a tattoo of a heart with wings on her
back. In the center was her son's name, Kendell.

The day before Frederick was killed, Davis recounted in his letter, they had
this exchange over the phone:

Frederick thanked him for help with the citizenship application.

"No SPC Frederick . . . thank you," Davis replied. "After all, you're the one
that's here fighting for a country that you technically don't belong to."

Davis told him that he was honored to help Frederick and four other soldiers
become citizens, and that Frederick should have been finished with his paperwork
by now. He told Frederick to make sure he placed his fingerprints on a blue
card.

"I know, I know, and I'll get it. . . . I promise," replied Frederick.

He laughed and they hung up.

The day after Frederick was killed, Davis called immigration officials and told
them the specialist had died. Then, he asked them to grant Frederick citizenship
anyway. His packet was complete. His fingerprints, he said, would be included.

Had he lived, Frederick would have become a U.S. citizen in a ceremony scheduled
for Thursday in Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              134 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Will Words Fail Her?;
Immigration Officials Snub Literary Sensation Yiyun Li Despite Her Peers' Praise

BYLINE: Bob Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 2300 words


Five years ago, Yiyun Li had a problem: How do you persuade the literary world
to take you seriously when you're a 28-year-old native Chinese speaker trying to
write in English, you've published exactly nothing and your training consists of
a single adult-education class?

Since then, the Beijing-born Li's career arc has been so steep it gives her
peers vertigo.

She's had stories published in prestige magazines such as the New Yorker and the
Paris Review. She's won the Pushcart Prize and the Plimpton Prize for New
Writers. Random House has signed her to a $200,000, two-book contract, which
Executive Editor Kate Medina calls  --  in what qualifies as a serious
understatement  --  "most unusual" for a literary writer at this stage of her
career. Her first book, a story collection called "A Thousand Years of Good
Prayers," was published this fall to wide praise.

Now she has another problem: How do you explain to the federal immigration
bureaucracy what the word "extraordinary" means?

In the summer of 2004, Li petitioned the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services to become a permanent resident of the United States. To approve her
application for a green card, USCIS would need to agree that she was an artist
of "extraordinary ability," defined in Title 8, Code of Federal Regulations,
Part 204.5(h)(2) as "a level of expertise indicating that the individual is one
of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of
endeavor."

To the upper echelons of literary publishing, Li looks like a slam-dunk to meet
this definition. Not to the USCIS, however. A year after she filed it, her
petition was rejected.

She has appealed. A USCIS spokesman says she is likely to get her answer in a
few weeks.

"Things change a lot," as a character in one of  Li's stories says. "Within a
blink a mountain flattens and a river dries up. Nobody knows who he'll become
tomorrow."

No matter what happens with her immigration petition, the mountain has already
flattened for Yiyun Li: The changes she's lived through in her 33 years are
remarkable. When she talks about her childhood and how she came to leave China
for the United States, some memories  --  such as her sister's suggestion that
she watch "Baywatch" to learn how Americans dress  --  cause her to burst into
infectious laughter.

Most do not.

There's this memory, for example, from when she was 5: Police with a loudspeaker
tell everyone in her Beijing neighborhood to gather in a field. They lead four
men, bound with ropes, onto a temporary stage. An officer announces that the men
are to be executed soon, after being displayed to similar gatherings in nearby
neighborhoods.

"Death to the counterrevolutionary hooligans!" the officer shouts, fist raised.

"It was like a celebration," Li says now, on the phone from her office at Mills
College in Oakland, Calif., where she recently accepted a tenure-track teaching
job. "I was in a celebrating mood, too." Back then, she didn't know any better.

She learned. She watched her mother close the windows before speaking of certain
things. She saw her horrified looks when Li's grandfather, who had been known to
call Mao Zedong "the king of Hell," mouthed off about the Communist Party. She
absorbed repeated warnings "never to say anything to anyone outside the house."

Li was born in 1972, the year President Richard Nixon shocked the world with his
tete-a-tete with Chairman Mao. She came of age just as China was laying the
groundwork for its economic boom. She remembers her physicist father traveling
abroad and coming home with descriptions of the beauty of Paris  --  and, just
as important, permission to import the family's first refrigerator. She recalls
thinking: "I hope my life won't be like this forever."

She also remembers Tiananmen Square.

In the spring of 1989, as student-led protests began to build in Beijing, Li was
in high school, a 15-minute bike ride from the square. Her parents were
pessimistic from the beginning  --  "They said the government would shoot at
people"  --  but Li was more hopeful. She found herself particularly moved by a
group of middle-aged men she  recalls standing quietly by the side of the road.
Their sign read: "We have knelt down all our lives. This is our opportunity to
stand up as human beings."

On the night the army crushed the protests, Li's parents locked her in her room.
Her mother ventured out and came back crying,  saying she'd seen the body of an
8-year-old boy. The next morning, her father  reported seeing piles of bodies in
a hospital bicycle garage. A good friend was picked up for questioning.

"It was like 9/11," she says. "Everybody knew somebody" who'd been in the square
that night.

Everybody in Beijing, perhaps. But Chinese television started saying right away
that no one had been killed, and many outside the capital believed this.

Two years later,  Li found herself in the army. Fearing a repeat of the
democracy movement, the government had required all students entering Peking
University to go through a year of political reeducation first.

"Imagine a zipper on your mouth," her mother told her as her army year began.
"Zip it up tight." But as Li wrote last year in the British magazine Prospect,
she couldn't control her anger.  One day she found herself telling her squad
mates about the massacre.

"Was it true people got killed?" a young woman asked.

"Don't spread rumors," her squad leader said.

After her outburst, Li became terrified of reprisals. She was lucky. The squad
leader reported her, but the officer who got the report chose not to pass it on.

Out of the army, studying biology, Li focused on one goal: to get into an
American graduate school. She got into four and chose the University of Iowa, in
part because she could do immunology there.

Li had a boyfriend in China, to whom she is now married, but for the time being
he stayed behind. Lonely, she signed up for an adult-education writing class,
the kind mainly populated by middle-aged women at loose ends. The teacher
singled her out for encouragement. For years that remained her only contact with
other writers.

"I wrote by myself," she says.

In the fall of 2000, about to turn 28 and closing in on her immunology PhD, she
started to panic  --  because she'd realized that she really wanted to be a
writer. She talked to her adviser and arranged to leave the program with a
master's degree. The next summer, she signed up for a class taught by
short-story virtuoso  James Alan McPherson, a Pulitzer Prize winner.

McPherson's Southern accent flummoxed her  --  "I couldn't understand most of
what he said"  --  but one particular point he made got through. In the Western
world, and especially in America, he told the class, the focus is so much on the
individual that "we have lost the community voice." But that voice is still
present in writing from countries such as China and Japan.

Something clicked. Before long, Li was showing McPherson a story called
"Immortality." Written from the point of view of an entire town, using the first
person plural, its first sentence reads: "This story, as the story of every one
of us, started long before we were born."

McPherson thought it was wonderful. "It's what a teacher lives for," he says.

Li says she was still so timid that "it blew my mind that a great writer  --  a
great human being  --  even noticed me."

She and her writing, however, soon were getting noticed more and more.

Admitted to the Iowa Writers' Workshop  --  widely viewed as the best graduate
writing program in the country  --  she wound up earning two additional master's
degrees, one in fiction and one in creative nonfiction. Long before she finished
them, she sold "Immortality" to the Paris Review. She sold another story to the
New Yorker. Random House's Medina came to speak at Iowa in November 2003, and at
some point was given both stories to read. She thinks she read "Immortality" on
the flight back to New York.

"I remember just starting to shake, it was so good," Medina says. "I've been an
editor for 150 years, and I don't jump off planes and buy books based on one
story"  --  but that's essentially what she did, signing Li to her two-book deal
in a matter of weeks.

The first book was "A Thousand Years of Good Prayers." Its 10 stories are
populated by "natives and exiles of post-Mao, post-Tiananmen China," as The
Washington Post's reviewer put it: ordinary people who are "victims of tradition
and change, of old barbarities and recent upheavals." Each story, the review
concluded, "feels fresh, wise and alive, creating a fascinating, horrifying and
heartbreaking picture of life in a country where the past never goes away."

In "Extra," an old woman has to figure out how to live after being "honorably
retired" with no pension from a bankrupt garment factory. In "The Princess of
Nebraska," a young Chinese immigrant is drawn to the strange American concept of
"moving on." In "Immortality," a provincial Chinese town watches with reverent
fascination as a young man's uncanny resemblance to Chairman Mao leads to a
career as an official Mao impersonator  --  a career that parallels, oddly and
tragically, those of the eunuchs the town used to send to the imperial court.

Short summaries can't capture the complex poignancy of the worlds Li creates.
Her style  is straightforward, but McPherson thinks she's "reinvigorating the
English language with rhythms and ways of speech that are found in Chinese."

More important, perhaps, writing in English has reinvigorated Li.

"Baba, if you grew up in a language that you never used to express your
feelings, it would be easier to take up another language and talk more in the
new language," a young woman says to her father in Li's title story. "It makes
you a new person."

"I couldn't write in Chinese," Li says, acknowledging the autobiographical
component of her character's observation. She held herself back both because
she'd grown up in a family reluctant to express emotions directly and because of
the oppressive political imperative to keep her lip zipped. In high school, she
once ripped up something she'd written about Tiananmen Square just before she
was to hand it in to her teacher. While in the army, she kept a journal but
wrote only nature descriptions.

"When I wrote in Chinese, I censored myself," she says. "I feel very lucky that
I've discovered a language I can use."

The first immigration lawyer Li consulted was recommended by scientist friends.
When he found out she was a writer, she says, he told her she'd have to be "the
second coming of Ernest Hemingway" for her petition to succeed.

She found another lawyer and filed for permanent residency in August 2004. She
heard nothing for nine months, then USCIS asked for more information. In her
original application, she had relied heavily on writers and editors she knew,
many of them connected to the Writers' Workshop. The immigration bureau asked,
among other things, for evidence that those outside her "circle of colleagues
and acquaintances" considered her work significant.

Li and her friends scrambled to get additional  testimonials to her
"extraordinary ability." They came up with more than 20, among them:

*  Novelist and PEN American Center President Salman Rushdie, who noted "the
exceedingly steep trajectory of her still-young career," reviewed Li's record of
publication and prizes, pointed out that the kind of "far-reaching interest and
buzz" she has generated is "extremely rare" and concluded that "Yiyun Li is the
real thing."

*  New Yorker Editor David Remnick, who wrote that the magazine he runs is
"dedicated to identifying young writers who are destined to become the leading
writers of their generation," named Li as one of these and described her as
possessing "a remarkable voice that we hadn't heard before and an extraordinary
way of writing about characters caught in a rapidly changing society."

*  Novelist Elinor Lipman, who unknowingly touched on the skeptical lawyer's
criterion for success. Lipman wrote that, although she had never met Li,
"reading her résumé is like getting a glimpse of an early F. Scott Fitzgerald or
a young Hemingway." She also wrote that, for a fiction writer, the New Yorker
was "the pinnacle, a no-man's land, and, for 99.9 percent of the world's
writers, only a dream."

None of this helped.

Li's submission, according to the decision from USCIS's Nebraska Service Center,
was "not persuasive" that she had "risen to the very top of the field of
endeavor." The decision also denied that "any specific works by the petitioner
are particularly renowned as significant contemporary writing."

The problem, Li's supporters  think, may be a failure to understand the
intensely competitive world of literary publishing.

"Yiyun Li is a huge success in literary fiction," Medina says. "But how does
that read," she  wonders, to someone unfamiliar with the context for her
accomplishments?

Asked about this, USCIS senior public affairs officer Christopher Bentley said
it would be "premature for us as an organization" to comment on Li's case now.
"Everything is working exactly the way it should," Bentley said. "A decision was
made, the decision was disagreed with, the customer took advantage of her right
to appeal that decision."

In late September, "A Thousand Years of Good Prayers" won the Frank O'Connor
International Short Story Award, which carries a prize of 50,000 euros. The
award came too late to be included in Li's appeal.

Li doesn't know what she'll do if the appeal is denied. She has a temporary visa
that will permit her to keep working in the United States for several more
years, after which she might try again for permanent residency status.

If she can't be an American, it is not clear who she will become.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              135 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Alleged Nazi Guard Demjanjuk Is to Be Deported to Ukraine

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND Dec. 28


--  An immigration judge Wednesday ordered John Demjanjuk, a retired autoworker
accused of being a Nazi concentration camp guard, deported to his native
Ukraine.

Demjanjuk, 85, has been fighting for nearly 30 years to stay in the United
States.

Chief U.S. Immigration Judge Michael J. Creppy ruled that there was no evidence
to substantiate Demjanjuk's claim that he would be tortured if deported to his
homeland.

Demjanjuk can appeal the ruling to the Board of Immigration Appeals within 30
days.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              136 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Latino Ministries Worried About Immigration Bill;
Lawmakers Say Clergy, Doctors Aren't Targeted for Aiding Those Here Illegally

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 1056 words


The Cuban immigrant who walked into the Spanish Catholic Center with cancer was
beyond hope. Calmly and sweetly, physician Anna Maria Izquierdo-Porrera showed
him how to die with dignity in his Washington area house.

"Whatever we can do here, we do it," Izquierdo-Porrera said in a cramped office
piled high with yellow files.  "I can't see myself ignoring a person who knocks
on my door and says 'I need help.' "

Each year, about 5,000 people walk into the Spanish Catholic Center in Mount
Pleasant, seeking assistance at the most difficult times in their lives.
Nationwide, Catholic agencies serve more than 300,000 "newcomers" through
Catholic Community Services. No questions are asked about their immigration
status.

But Roman Catholic bishops say anti-immigration legislation passed recently by
the House could put that work in jeopardy, even as the drafters of the proposal
say vehemently that those interpretations are wrong and that no harm is
intended.

The sticking point in the arguments is language in a section of the House
proposals, which the Senate is scheduled to take up next month, that would make
it a criminal offense for anyone to "direct or assist" an immigrant with the
knowledge that the person crossed the U.S. border illegally. Financial penalties
and jail time could follow.

Catholic bishops sharply denounced the legislation in late December when it was
passed in the House by Republicans, with a little help from Democrats, after a
stormy debate.

Jeff Lungren, a spokesman for House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), who drafted the proposal, called Catholic complaints
about the bill "a hysteria." He said the proposal merely tweaks current law so
that law enforcement agencies can more aggressively target human smugglers.

"Everyone seems to understand the intent," Lungren said. "It is intended to go
after smugglers." Speaking to religious opponents, he said: "You say we're going
after you. Well, are people coming after you right now, because that's the
current law?"

Regardless of the drafter's intent, Catholic leaders say, the law's language is
broad, leaving room for zealous prosecutors to target anyone, including doctors,
lawyers, teachers and volunteers who work for Catholic Community Services. They
do not ask for a client's status, but often that information is volunteered in
intimate detail.

"The Catholic bishops and especially those of us here . . . have been very
concerned about this," said Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick, archbishop of
Washington. "We're afraid that if this goes through, it could close the door all
the way for everybody. You take what is illegal and make it criminal, and that's
a frightening thing for us."

It is not just Catholics who are nervous. The Rev. Robin Hoover, pastor of First
Christian Church in Tucson, which delivered more than 37,000 gallons of water to
Mexicans crossing the Arizona desert, wondered if the proposal would affect his
work. Hundreds of immigrants die of thirst each year during desert crossings.

J. Stuart Taylor III, co-pastor of St. Mark's Presbyterian Church in Tucson and
a founding member of the group No More Deaths, is worried about his church's
mission to save lives of those crossing the desert. The Rev. Joan M. Maruskin of
the D.C.-based Church World Service Immigration and Refugee Program said the
rule as written appears to interfere with Christians whose mission is "to help
the stranger."

At the Spanish Catholic Center, strangers pop in every day. One day in the
middle of the week, the Rev. Mario Dorsonville celebrated the noon Mass on the
second floor of the Spanish Catholic Center, praying for a young Latina who used
a walker for her frail legs.

Downstairs, Sister Deirdre "Dede" Byrne, a physician, sat face to face with two
men who gave only their first names, Johnny and Pedro, instructing them on an
upcoming colon examination.

"You should take no aspirin or nothing by mouth," Byrne said, green eyes locked
on Johnny, a good-natured wisecracker who seemed oblivious to the seriousness of
the procedure. The drugs will make you woozy, she said.

Her orders: "You will have to have someone drive you home."

Johnny said, shrugging, "I will drive myself."

Byrne warned: "Well, if you get stopped by the police . . ."

Johnny, suddenly more alert, cut her off: "Don't even think about it," he said,
coughing. "I will find someone to drive me."

The exchange was brief, but it provided a small clue as to Johnny's legal
status, and some Catholic Charities officials fear that under the proposed law,
such clues add up to knowing that he is, in fact, illegal.

Hardly, said Will Adams, a spokesman for Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.). "The
federal government doesn't even go after employers who hire illegal aliens, let
alone charities," Adams said. To think that they would "isn't in touch with
reality," he said.

Latino civil rights groups and religious aid organizations say they do not trust
Tancredo, who recently proposed disallowing automatic citizenship to children
born to illegal immigrants.

House members dropped the item from the legislation before it passed. Adams said
the existing language should stay, in spite of complaints. "Have they read the
language?" he asked.

"The only section that could possibly touch them is one out of seven," he said.
That item says culprits can face fines and jail time if they help people in
"knowing and in reckless disregard of the fact" that they entered the country
illegally.

Otherwise, the proposal is no different from Title 8, Section 1324 of the
current U.S. Code, Adams said. "And how many churches have been shut down?"

Byrne said the stakes are too high for legal ambiguity.

"We're one of the few clinics that will take anyone," she said. "In fact, they
[immigrants] all get nervous because they're not legal. I don't even ask about
their legal status. I just see someone who needs help."

Izquierdo-Porrera sighed in her office. "I'm an immigrant, too," she said with a
defiant look. But her H-1B visa can easily be revoked if she is deemed to have
broken a law.

"I've done everything the law has told me," she said. "It's easy for politicians
to say they don't want immigrants. But I'm not a politician. . . . I took an
oath. . . . I can't stop because someone disagrees with what I do."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              137 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Two Immigrants, Two Standards

BYLINE: Stacy Caplow and Lauren Kosseff

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 736 words


We recently learned that U.S. immigration policy is, in fact, capable of fast
action and flexibility. It just depends on who the immigrant is.

In December Congress speedily passed special immigration legislation to benefit
just one person: an ice dancer. As a Canadian, she couldn't join the 2006 U.S.
Olympics team. But a law was written that lasted exactly two days, long enough
for her to be fast-tracked for citizenship and sent to compete for the United
States.

Around the same time, we at the Safe Harbor Project at Brooklyn Law School
received notice that the U.S. immigration system had denied entry to Teresa, a
14-year-old African girl who has been stranded as a refugee in Guinea almost all
her life. She is trying to join her adoptive mother, Momara (no real names are
used here, as is generally practiced with asylum), a refugee from Sierra Leone
who was granted asylum in the United States. But in this girl's case, there is
no fast track, only the rigid application of a procedural rule.

Teresa's harrowing story began when she was born in the bush, where everyone
from her town had fled to escape rampaging rebel forces threatening to kill
them. Her birth mother died giving birth to her. Without a second thought,
Momara scooped up the infant and from that moment on considered Teresa her own.
She, Teresa and her other young children went to a refugee camp and remained
there until the rebel forces struck again, robbing the refugees and stabbing
Momara. Somehow the family made its way to Freetown, the capital of Sierra
Leone, but they were still not safe. Rebels beheaded Momara's husband before
their eyes, gang-raped and beat Momara, and stabbed her sons. Miraculously, they
escaped and, without husband and father, fled to Guinea.

With our legal representation Momara received asylum in 2004. She now lives with
her grown son in Queens. An uneducated woman with few personal belongings, she
has great dignity and endless hope for her future in the United States. Yet her
worries have not ended, because she has not yet been reunited with all her
children.

The law permits immediate relatives of refugees  --  spouses and biological and
adopted children  --  to come to the United States. Momara's three biological
children were recently granted derivative asylum and are waiting for visas. But
Teresa is another story. Since she is not Momara's biological child, she can
qualify for a visa only with proof that she is adopted. The Department of
Homeland Security denied her application because she does not have an "official
adoption decree" from Sierra Leone.

As Momara's lawyers, we explained to DHS that Sierra Leone was devastated by a
10-year civil war. Many children have been orphaned in the war, and it is
customary for other families to adopt and raise them, albeit without official
adoption papers. The country does not have a functioning government, much less a
formalized adoption procedure.

Momara is pleading to be reunited with all of her children and to know that they
are finally out of harm's way. But the DHS stated in its denial of Teresa's visa
application that "[s]ince there are no formal adoption decrees in Sierra Leone
then you are unable to provide a copy of the final adoption decree . . . which
has been registered with the proper civil authorities." This is a new version of
Catch-22: We know it's impossible for you to get the proof we request;
nevertheless we will withhold the relief you seek because you cannot obtain the
proof.

The DHS's flat denial shows an all-too-familiar inflexibility in the
administration of U.S. immigration policy and frustrates one of its most
fundamental stated goals: family unification. Our nation's consensus, derived
from international norms, is that innocent families, survivors of terrorism and
brutality elsewhere in the world, be granted asylum here. Yet the DHS has chosen
to bar a victimized and vulnerable girl from rejoining her family for the
flimsiest of reasons  --  lack of an unobtainable document.

The machinery of Congress was geared up to make it possible for an ice dancer to
bring Olympic glory to the United States. Why can't it be set in motion for
humanitarian cases such as that of Teresa and her mother? That would bring us a
measure of glory, too.

Stacy Caplow is a professor and director of the Safe Harbor Project at Brooklyn
Law School. Lauren Kosseff is a third-year student there.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              138 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Frist Pushes For Quick Vote On Immigration;
Majority Leader Bypasses Committee

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 521 words


Frustrated by the Senate Judiciary Committee's slow progress on politically
sensitive immigration legislation, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.)
introduced his own bill last night to secure the nation's borders and crack down
on illegal immigration.

Frist's bill will go directly to the full Senate. But he said he will allow
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) to substitute a
committee bill if Specter's panel could approve one March 27. Otherwise, the
majority leader will stick to a strict, two-week schedule to finish work on what
he conceded would be "as challenging a bill as any we'll have to address this
year."

The majority leader's power move stunned committee Republicans and Democrats,
who have been struggling for three weeks to reach agreement on a comprehensive
immigration bill. Specter said he objected to the maneuver.

"It would be chaos on the floor to have this bill debated without the committee
acting first," Specter said yesterday afternoon, only to grudgingly accept
Frist's move in the evening.

Some Republican aides said they believed presidential politics were at work.
Frist, a prospective candidate for 2008, left out of his bill the guest-worker
program that President Bush has demanded and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.)  --  a
potential White House rival  --  has championed. Such a program is unpopular
with many conservative voters, who see it as amnesty for illegal immigrants.
Many Republicans believe a new law to get tough on illegal immigrants is one of
the few pieces of legislation that must be passed before the November elections
if the GOP is to maintain the allegiance of conservative voters.

Frist said he was motivated by a belief that only prompt Senate action will
allow Senate and House negotiators to reach a compromise on a final bill this
year. The House passed in December a border security bill that did not include a
guest-worker program.

Senators from both parties have come to near-agreement on provisions bolstering
the U.S. border patrol, adding new technologies such as unmanned aerial vehicles
and raising penalties on illegal immigrants and those who aid them. Sens. Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John Cornyn (R-Tex.) neared agreement yesterday on a
guest-worker program that could smooth the way to bipartisan passage of a
Judiciary Committee bill when lawmakers return from a week-long break next week.

Under the deal, Kennedy would agree that illegal immigrants who qualify for a
guest-worker visa would have to go to their home countries for a year before
applying for a visa extension of three or four additional years. But, Senate
aides said, that one-year return could be waived if guest workers' employers
said their continued labor was necessary or if a guest worker could prove a
consistent work history.

With Democrats, Bush and many Republicans favoring a guest-worker program,
immigration advocates say no immigration bill can get out of the Senate without
one. But House opponents say they have commitments from Republican leaders that
no guest-worker program will be considered on the House floor this year.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              139 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 24, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

One Step Forward

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 447 words


"BREAKTHROUGH" is a word that should always be used with extreme care, at least
when discussing immigration reform. Nevertheless, it may be warranted: The
Senate Judiciary Committee, which had been bogged down for several weeks trying
to produce an immigration bill, appears to have reached a consensus. The deal
doesn't solve all of the problems, but it does at least try to solve the most
difficult: the fate of the estimated 12 million people who live in this country
illegally.

In its essence, the compromise  --  patterned on a proposal by Sens. John McCain
(R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.)  --  allows undocumented workers
living here to apply for residency permits, on the condition that they prove
they are employed and pay a hefty fine for breaking the law. They would then go
to the back of the green card line  --  behind those applying legally  --  and
wait for citizenship. President Bush has always said he would endorse such a
solution as long as it doesn't look like an "amnesty" that rewards lawbreakers.
During a news conference this week, he seemed to say that the Senate solution
might be precisely that: "People who have been here need to get in line, like
everybody else," he confirmed.

This is, of course, a very fragile sort of agreement. It hasn't been voted on,
or even properly written down. It doesn't get to the issue of what to do about
temporary workers who want to come here in the future, and it doesn't solve the
border control issues either. Amazingly, some in the Senate and the House are
still pushing to build a wall along the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border, a project
that  --  aside from its unpleasant symbolism  --  would cost billions of
dollars (a 14-mile wall near San Diego cost $70 million alone), would deal with
only  part of the problem (40 percent of the undocumented are thought to have
arrived in other ways), and would not prevent people from using tunnels and
ladders to get across, as they do now.

Even more worrying are the complicated politics of making any immigration deal
stick. Already, the immigration debate has become a forum for 2008 campaign
jockeying, as possible presidential contender Sen. Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) tries to
distance himself from possible presidential contender Mr. McCain, largely by
sounding a much harder line on enforcement. Since the House doesn't seem to be
in a mood to talk about anything but enforcement either, that bodes ill for
anyone who wants a realistic solution to the problem of the undocumented. Still,
a breakthrough is a breakthrough, however fragile, and the senators on the
Judiciary Committee, led by Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), are to be commended for
reaching it.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              140 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 27, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

THIS WEEK

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 360 words


Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has one last
chance on Monday to prevent immigration legislation from being hijacked by
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) as part of his 2008 presidential
campaign.

Specter has scheduled a final "markup" of his legislation, which would couple
the border crackdown conservatives crave with a plan to let millions of illegal
immigrants stay. Earlier this month, Frist put the legislative equivalent of a
gun to Specter's head, introducing his own proposal that, out of respect for the
wishes of GOP primary voters, skips the guest worker plan. Either way, the
Senate takes up immigration on Tuesday, starting what is expected to be a
two-week debate.

Meantime, President Bush, who favors a guest worker provision, on Thursday
emigrates to Cancun, Mexico, for two days of meetings with Mexican President
Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper.

TRAFFIC COURT: Salim Ahmed Hamdan, the alleged driver for Osama bin Laden, has a
big court date Tuesday. The Supreme Court, in the much-anticipated Hamdan v.
Rumsfeld appeal, will consider the constitutionality of the military tribunal
the Bush administration has proposed for him. The justices, in the 90-minute
argument, will also consider the reach of a new law stripping the courts of
their authority to review the legality of the military trials.

ONWARD, CHRISTIAN VOTERS: Deposed House majority leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.) on
Tuesday will give his thoughts on "The War on Christians and the Values Voter in
2006." That's the title of a two-day conference sponsored by a group called
Vision America, which will also be hearing from GOP Sens. John Cornyn (Tex.) and
Sam Brownback (Kan.). Among the hardy perennials to be debated: "The Media:
Megaphone for Anti-Faith Values."

JUSTICE KENNEDY, UNBOWED: Conservatives have turned on Anthony M. Kennedy, a
Reagan appointee to the Supreme Court, over his citing of international law. But
it doesn't appear that Kennedy is yielding. He's giving the "plenary address"
Thursday afternoon to the annual meeting of the American Society of
International Law.

--  Dana Milbank

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              141 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Spanish Radio Tunes In to Immigration Quandaries

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1199 words


The first call came in at 7:55 a.m., five minutes before showtime. From Denver,
where it was two hours earlier.

Daniel Park, a lawyer, sat down in the Manassas studio of La Campeona (1420 AM)
and pulled on headphones, leaving the caller on hold to deliver his intro: a
rapid-fire "¡Buenos días, buenos días, buenos días!," an explanation of proposed
immigration legislation  --  and an exhortation to protest laws that would make
illegal immigrants and those who aid them felons. Then he took the call.

The Colorado caller had heard about Park's Spanish-language radio show on
immigration law, and she needed help. Her husband's brother, a U.S. citizen,
sponsored her husband for residency five years ago, but his green card had not
arrived. What could they do?

After that came Manuel in the District, wanting to know whether he could bring
his Salvadoran father here once his own citizenship is approved. And Carlos in
Alexandria, fretting that his friends, who had told him that his recently
approved permanent residency could be a mistake, might be right.

"What is the case of Salvadorans?" Jesus, a Salvadoran caller, hesitantly asked,
referring to proposed laws. "Are they going to give them residency?"

For many Hispanic immigrants  --  especially the poor, undocumented or simply
flummoxed  --  Spanish-language radio programs offering legal advice can be key
resources for answers about labyrinthine immigration laws. And these days, with
tension over illegal immigration rising  --  and with proposals to charge and
deport such immigrants gaining traction  --  hosts say the tenor of questions
has changed.

"More fear," said Jay Marks, a Silver Spring lawyer who fields immigration
questions each Wednesday on the popular morning show on El Zol (99.1 FM). "Lots
of fear."

The immigration legislation being considered by Congress has made the shows even
more vital, hosts say.

"Recent immigrants use radio as their principal source of information," said
Jose Pertierra, a District lawyer who hosts "Welcome to America," a nationally
broadcast Spanish-language radio program about immigration. "It is a forum that
people are familiar with from back home. And the immigration laws are so
confusing, even to U.S. citizens. . . . It's an opportunity for a sort of
consultation with a lawyer."

When Park, 38, took to the airwaves on a recent Saturday morning for his weekly
program, which also broadcasts on Radio Continental (1390 AM), the lines were
busy for two hours straight. He told listeners to maintain hope but delivered as
much bad news as good. As he does on every show, he repeatedly pressed listeners
not to hit their wives, drive drunk or commit any other crime, lest they lose
any chance at legal immigration.

"Immigrating here is harder than entering heaven," Park recently told a caller
named Jose, who said he had twice been convicted of drunken driving. "God
forgives. Immigration does not."

Last year, a Denver television station's legal-advice hotline was assailed by
opponents who accused the station of helping illegal immigrants. Such stigma has
kept sponsors away from Pertierra's show, said Carlos Alcazar, president of the
Hispanic Communications Network, which produces the program and foots the bill
for it.

"We're never giving advice to people that are undocumented about how to skirt
the law," Alcazar said. "But the perception is that just because you're doing an
immigration show, you're doing that."

Park, who pays for his airtime and says most of his clients were once listeners,
said he considers his show a community service for immigrants trying to find
their way in the United States. It's something he can relate to. When Park was
7, his father, a minister, moved the family to Bolivia from Korea. When he was
18, the family relocated to Los Angeles. Park, fluent in Spanish by then but
knowing not a word of English, flipped burgers and performed other service jobs.
To learn English, he listened to radio news. Four years later, he began college
at the University of Southern California.

"They make so many mistakes  --  fatal mistakes," he said of his clients and
listeners. "When I'm able to resolve their issues, there's something about that.
There's a tickle in your heart."

Jorge Rivera, 30, a listener, made an appointment with Park last year when his
application for permanent residency  --  sponsored by his wife, a U.S. citizen
--  remained pending despite a three-year wait. "They lost my papers up and
down," the Sterling flooring contractor, speaking in Spanish, said of the
federal immigration system.

With Park's help, Rivera's case was approved in six months. Now armed with a
green card, Rivera  --  still a regular listener  --  will return to El Salvador
for the first time in 13 years to celebrate the Easter holidays with family.

Park makes no secret that he makes a living from his work. Park's listeners all
are familiar with the tales of his hungry piggy bank. Jokes are part of his
on-air shtick  --  and something that helps lighten a frightening topic, he
said.

On a recent Saturday morning, Park sat in La Campeona's small studio, housed on
the second floor of a squat commercial building, upstairs from a Western Union
depot, a Mexican video shop and a Salvadoran restaurant.

When a man named Romeo called, Park inquired about Juliet's whereabouts.
("That's what I want to know!" Romeo responded.) During another call, Park asked
if Milton Garcia, a Honduran, had a PT or PA visa. Deejay Isaias Flores
explained.

"PT means por tierra," or "by land," said Flores, 23, with a grin. "PA means por
agua," or by water, he said.

Park's casual and blunt style has brought him a loyal following of listeners,
many of whom call more than once. The show also has brought him a dash of
celebrity. On a recent day, Park said, he was speaking on his cellphone at a
Manassas Baja Fresh restaurant when the cashier, hearing the lawyer's voice,
pointed at him and said, "Park."

Between the laughs, Park turns serious, denouncing proposed legislation that
would punish illegal immigrants and urging listeners to protest  --  and to
bring a U.S. flag if they do.

"That's the most American thing to do, to show up and demonstrate in a peaceful
way," he said.

After the recent show, Park headed to his sparsely decorated office in the
Alexandria section of Fairfax County. Cayetano Medina, 64, was there, waiting
for a consultation. Each Saturday for the past three years, he said, he has
listened to Park's show. Now he needed help himself.

Medina sat down, setting a black baseball cap, a Bible studies workbook and a
brown paper sack holding neat copies of his immigration documents on a chair
next to him. In a voice clouded with concern, Medina, of Woodbridge, told Park
in Spanish that he had just returned from a four-month stay in his native El
Salvador, where he went to bury his wife. Would his absence jeopardize his
pending citizenship application?

"I don't have anyone to help me," Medina said.

"Nothing will happen," Park said, shaking his head and explaining that Medina
was in the clear because he was gone less than six months. His fears assuaged,
Medina rose to leave.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              142 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Rights Advocates Say Bill Is Too Convoluted to Enforce

BYLINE: Nick Anderson and N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 745 words


Local immigrant rights advocates criticized elements of a new U.S. Senate
immigration measure yesterday that they said would divide ethnic communities and
effectively deny millions of people in the underground economy a path to
legalization.

The criticisms came amid continued student demonstrations that have sprung up
around the region. Yesterday, students in Prince George's County and D.C. public
schools became the most recent to express solidarity with immigrants by walking
out of class.

Yesterday's developments revved up plans for major multi-city demonstrations
Monday. Thousands are expected to turn out on the Mall to voice support for
immigrant rights as Congress weighs competing bills from the House and Senate.

The emerging Senate bill would allow illegal immigrants to move toward
citizenship if they can prove they have lived in the country for at least five
years and meet other requirements.

Those who have lived in the country at least two years but less than five would
have to apply for a temporary work visa at a designated U.S. port of entry.
Those in the country illegally for less than two years would not qualify.

Immigrant rights activists appear torn.

"It's a step in the right direction," said Jaime Contreras, president of the
National Capital Immigration Coalition. "But it doesn't go far enough. The bill
leaves a lot of people out and divides the community in a negative way."

Doris dePaz, an organizer for Casa de Maryland, heard the news via a phone call
while she was exhorting listeners of the Spanish-language station WKDM (1600 AM)
to go to the march Monday. She said afterward that her heart sank.

"I said, 'This can't be!' " dePaz recalled. "I felt so sad and so impotent and
so frustrated. Why are these politicians not taking into account everything we
are doing?"

But dePaz said the new bill would inspire more people to attend the march
Monday. "Now we've got even more energy to do whatever it takes to show that we
don't deserve to be treated this way," she said.

Athena Viscusi, clinical director at Neighbors' Consejo, a community service
organization in the District, said the Senate bill would prove hopelessly
difficult to implement.

"It's very hard for people to prove that they've been in the country for all
these random categories of years," she said. "Even if it were acceptable in
principle . . . it's bureaucratically infeasible."

Her view coincided with the assessment of a local advocate of stricter
enforcement of immigration laws. "There's no possible way that the government
can take something that complicated and do it correctly," said George Taplin of
Herndon, director of a Virginia unit of the Minutemen, when told about the
Senate proposal.

"The thing that has to happen, whatever else they do, is they have to secure the
borders immediately," Taplin said.

The news generated some confusion in the area's Latino community, said the Rev.
Jose Eugenio Hoyos, director of the Spanish Apostolate for the Catholic Diocese
of Arlington.

"All day, people have been calling my office to say they wanted to understand
what it meant," he said. "People are very anxious about what's happening and
hungry for information."

When Hoyos explained the new bill, he said, his parishioners were uniformly
against it.

"People are saying, 'Father, we don't want to be divided this way and valued
differently,' " he said.

At three local high schools, hundreds of students  --  mostly Latino  --  walked
out of class yesterday to show support for immigrant rights.

"We're not criminals! We are U.S.A., and we're not giving up!" shouted a student
named Jessica, one of a few hundred gathered behind a chain-link fence at High
Point High School in Beltsville. Another yelled, "Everybody's an immigrant!"

Students also demonstrated at Northwestern High School in Hyattsville and Bell
Multicultural Senior High School in Northwest Washington.

Edith Perez, 16, a sophomore at Bell, said she is skeptical of the Senate
proposal, citing the experience of her mother, who was deported to Mexico two
years ago even though she had sought to apply for legal status.

When that happened, Edith said, "my dad got scared and decided not to go through
the legal channels."

Jose Funes, 19, a senior at Bell, said: "Let people who are here stay here  --
no matter how long they've been here. We're not criminals. We're here to work
and to be somebody."

Staff writer V. Dion Haynes contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              143 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Recent efforts to reform our ...

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 234 words


Recent efforts to reform our immigration laws have ignited protests in schools
across the country. Prince William County has had its share of students walking
out of class to express their concerns. What lessons can we learn from our young
immigrants and neighbors? That pitting illegal immigrants against legal
immigrants by proposing that illegal migrants be treated as felons is grossly
un-American and unjust, and that they know this country is a country of
immigrants. They want to be treated humanely.

To secure a kinder, gentler, more civil community, we should:

*  Hold diversity dialogues and empowerment sessions throughout the county.

*  Invite successful immigrants in our community as facilitators of the
dialogues.

*  Use the language of reconciliation with our immigrant neighbors to decrease
the tensions.

*   Emphasize  to young immigrants the need for and the value of education.

As a native of Haiti, I can tell you that I have firsthand experience of the
frustration and fear of the U.S. immigration process. Nevertheless, I relish the
idea that, as naturalized Americans, we can use our First Amendment rights. The
students have expressed that right. Now, I support our school superintendent's
call to all of the parents to encourage our students to attend school. Education
is the great equalizer.

--  Manes Pierre

is a teacher at Freedom High School

in Woodbridge.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              144 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

From Latinos' Rally, Hopes for a Movement

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1088 words


On the eve of demonstrations by Latinos in dozens of cities across the country,
protest organizers said they would strive to transform momentum over the
immigration controversy into a lasting civil rights movement that unifies the
nation's largest minority population.

They face the challenge of appealing to a population that is divided
economically, racially and by national origin, a fact that has perplexed
marketing and political strategists alike. And some experts say they fear that
forming a political coalition around issues more broad-based than immigration
might prove daunting.

The mobilization, which already has drawn hundreds of thousands of people this
year to immigration protests in major cities, has yet to produce the visible
leadership characteristic of civil rights movements.

Demonstrations are planned for more than 60 cities tomorrow, and organizers
expect that as many as 180,000 people will converge on the Mall, enhanced by
frustration over the congressional impasse last week on immigration legislation.

"Our challenge is to transform this massive movement of people in the streets
into a massive movement of people to the polls," said Angelica Salas, executive
director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, where a
demonstration last month drew more than 500,000 people. "Ultimately in a
democracy, your influence depends on putting people in power to represent your
interests."

If political power comes to a population estimated to number more than 40
million people  --  hailing from more than 20 countries  --  it will come
gradually.

Only 40 percent of U.S. Latinos are eligible to vote, according to a recent
study by the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute at the University of Southern
California, and fewer than half vote regularly. One-third of Latinos are too
young to vote. And an estimated 27 percent are adults but noncitizens or illegal
immigrants.

Although immigrants from all countries would be affected by changes in the law,
a wave of Latino protest coalesced after the House passed legislation that would
make illegal immigration a felony and penalize those who employed such
immigrants. Apparent agreement on a Senate compromise that would have opened a
path to citizenship for millions in the country illegally collapsed Friday under
the weight of election-year politics.

"A community that had essentially been trying to remain invisible suddenly
concluded that their invisibility was only making them more vulnerable," said
Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
advocates expanding immigrant rights.

But Sharry said activism could be undermined if legislation similar to the
Senate proposal ever finds its way into law.

"I suspect a lot people will start busying themselves with getting on the path
to legal permanent residence, and that could take the political momentum out of
[the movement]," Sharry said.

This cycle of success followed by complacency has played out during several
previous waves of Latino activism  --  most recently in California during the
1990s. In 1994, when voters there adopted Proposition 187, denying some public
benefits to illegal immigrants, many Latinos perceived the move as a personal
attack by Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, who had advocated the measure. Mass
demonstrations were followed by a surge in voter registration and political
activism by Latinos.

Two successive Democratic candidates were swept into the governor's mansion, and
the state became a reliable voter for Democratic presidential candidates.

Once the sense of crisis abated, fewer California Latinos turned out to vote. In
the 2002 general election, for example, Latinos represented 17 percent of
registered voters but 10 percent of those who voted.

Organizers of the demonstrations set for tomorrow said they plan to counter the
pattern by convening a national conference in June, probably in Milwaukee, to
craft an agenda that carries the movement beyond a single legislative goal.

"We're going to be talking about what a pro-immigration platform looks like and
how to maintain it," said Kimberly Propeack, advocacy director for CASA of
Maryland, an immigrant rights group.

The effort to mold an issue into a movement might be hampered by the absence of
a nationally recognized leader to fulfill the galvanizing role that Martin
Luther King Jr. played for the African American civil rights movement, or that
Mexican American labor activist Cesar Chavez played for West Coast farm workers.

The lack of such a figure is at least partly due to the nature of the
organizations underlying the current mobilization.

Although many leaders of the civil rights movement emerged from historically
black colleges or Protestant churches that fostered the rise of a select group
of orators, the recent demonstrations have been the work of a diverse,
dispersed, grass-roots network of community service organizations, social clubs,
unions and Spanish-language media outlets. The Washington demonstration alone is
being coordinated by more than 60 such groups.

"Without a Dr. King-like figure, we lack the capacity to create that personal
connection, not just within our own community but with folks on the outside,"
said Cecilia Munoz, vice president of policy for National Council of La Raza, a
Latino advocacy group. "Someone with that kind of visibility is really useful in
terms of educating people."

Although there is no identifiable leader to reconcile the inevitable fractures
that have emerged as so many groups try to harmonize their activities, Salas
said the decentralized nature of the movement also has an advantage.

"There's no one leader who could disappear and affect the movement," she said.
"Instead, you have all these local communities with their own independent local
leaders."

And many Latino leaders say that whatever the fate of their movement in the
short run, their success over the long term is virtually guaranteed by the
millions of U.S.-born Latinos who will be turning 18 over the next decade.

The most lasting impact of the demonstrations might be the passion it ignites
among the young people who participate, said Antonio Gonzalez, executive
director of the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, which is
dedicated to increasing Latino political involvement.

"The way you get youth to vote is to have a sort of revolution, an evil enemy to
fight," he said. "That has just been handed to us by [the Republicans]. We ought
to send them a thank-you letter."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              145 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Hispanic Civil Rights Movement

BYLINE: Juan Williams

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 895 words


The massive demonstrations by Hispanics across the country have the look of
civil rights history. The crowds  protesting punitive immigration legislation
have been huge, rivaling or exceeding the gathering for the 1963 March on
Washington. Is this in fact a major new civil rights movement?

Until now Hispanics have not been a political force or a major factor in
national discussions of civil rights, though they have become the nation's
largest minority. The politics of race are still dominated by conversations
about black-white relations, and blacks remain the gatekeepers of racial
representation on school boards and in city halls. In Congress, African
Americans have a caucus more than twice the size of the Hispanic delegation (43
to 21), even though they are a smaller percentage of the population.

One big reason Hispanic power has been slow in maturing is that most Hispanics
do not identify themselves as such. Their group reference has tended to be to
homelands  --  Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic. And of course there
are racial differences, especially between black and white Hispanics.

But that changed recently, with marches that drew hundreds of thousands and
created coalitions across the lines of Hispanic national identity. People from
disparate Hispanic nations coalesced around the debate on illegal immigration.
It took a radical step by the House  --  giving serious thought to dragnet
arrests of all illegal  immigrants and charging them with a felony  --  to
achieve this. To some, the level of hatred and racism against immigrants seemed
to match that once directed against blacks in this country.

Indeed, this is the same dynamic that struck sparks in the 1950s and '60s and
flared into the black civil rights movement. The Supreme Court's 1954 decision
on school desegregation  implied a movement toward racial equality throughout
American society. In response, segregationists launched a campaign of "massive
resistance" to integration. Initially, very young people took the lead in the
civil rights protests, much as they  have in the current immigration rallies.

The facts of relatively low unemployment and strong economic growth say that
immigrants  --  as innovators, business owners, workers and customers in the
U.S. economy  --  have a future here. And Hispanic voters have a future in
American politics. President Bush arguably won reelection in 2004 because he
pushed the level of support for a Republican presidential candidate to new
heights among Hispanics.

The organized power of the Catholic Church,  both as a force in American
politics and as the heart of the "sanctuary movement," to protect illegal
immigrants from abuse is analogous to the role the black church and its white
allies played in the civil rights movement.

The power of organized labor is being revived by immigrants  --  legal and
illegal. Add to this the growing power of Hispanic media and one senses a
gathering force that could produce a true civil rights movement for the 21st
century. But not without resistance. Polls show that large numbers of Americans,
white and black, want the current wave of immigration to slow and even stop. The
numbers reveal a large element of xenophobia in the form of accusations that
immigrants are taking low-wage jobs from native-born Americans. In fact,
immigrants, legal and illegal, add to economic activity.

Sadly, anxiety over the increasing Hispanic population has caused some  leaders
of the Congressional Black Caucus and the NAACP to become tongue-tied on the
subject. Privately, these members of Congress point to prison riots in
California between blacks and Hispanics  and turf fights between black and
Hispanic high school  students as evidence of rising tension between minority
groups. There is a reluctance to counter this fear-mongering with a
forward-looking vision of new coalitions among people of color. Instead there
has been a lot of pandering to the worst instincts of people who often share
with Hispanics the problems of bad schools, high incarceration rates and life at
the bottom of the economic ladder.

Of course, the angriest voices are still heard on the far right, asking, "Whose
country is this anyway?" and denouncing "amnesty" for immigrants. Sometimes it's
a thin cover, with strong racial overtones, for opposing any rational approach
to letting people who are already here, holding jobs and paying taxes,  become
legal. There may be short-term benefits to this sort of pandering, but, as has
been shown before, it can come back to hurt  politicians.

The real issue is whether America can come to terms with the reality of change.
The next question is whether an activated Hispanic coalition can hold together
on issues beyond the current fight over immigration reform. Imagine the power of
Hispanics joined with other minorities to stand up for better schools and
pressure politicians for national health care.

We've seen a movie a lot like this before  --  about 50 years ago. It ended with
a country being transformed by a movement that called for it to live up to its
founding ideals of equal rights for all. Here's hoping for another happy ending.

Juan Williams is a senior correspondent for National Public Radio, a political
analyst for Fox News and author of "Eyes on the Prize: America's Civil Rights
Years, 1954-1965."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              146 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Calls for Immigration Reform Attract Thousands in 10 States

BYLINE: Anabelle Garay, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: DALLAS April 9


Hundreds of thousands of people banged drums, waved U.S. flags and marched in a
protest Sunday urging federal lawmakers to pass immigration reform that would
legalize an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants.

The marchers included families pushing strollers with their children and ice
cream vendors who placed U.S. flags on their carts. Many marchers wore white
clothing to symbolize peace.

Police estimated the crowd here at 350,000 to 500,000. There were no reports of
violence.

It was among several demonstrations that drew thousands of protesters Sunday in
Alabama, California, Idaho, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, Oregon and
Utah.

"If we don't protest, they'll never hear us," said Oscar Cruz, 23, a
construction worker who marched among the estimated 50,000 in San Diego. Cruz,
who came illegally to the United States in 2003, said he had feared a crackdown
but felt emboldened by the large marches in recent weeks across the country.

In Birmingham, demonstrators marched along the same streets where civil rights
activists clashed with police during the 1960s and rallied at a park where a
statue of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. stands as a reminder of the fight for
equal rights and the violence that once plagued the city.

"We've got to get back in touch with the Statue of Liberty," said the Rev.
Lawton Higgs, a United Methodist pastor and activist. "We've got to get back in
touch with the civil rights movement because that's what this is about."

Organizers in St. Paul, Minn., were surprised by the crowd calling for change at
a rally at the state Capitol. Police estimated the  gathering at 30,000.

The rallies also drew counter-demonstrators.

In Salt Lake City, Jerry Owens, a Navy veteran from Midway, Utah, wearing a blue
Minuteman T-shirt and camouflage pants, held a yellow "Don't Tread on Me" flag.

"I think it's real sad because these people are really saying it's okay to be
illegal aliens," Owens, 59, said. "What Americans are saying is 'Yes, come here.
But come here legally.' And I think that's the big problem."

Sunday's demonstrations preceded nationwide protests set weeks ago for Monday, a
signal that what began as a string of disparate events  --  attracting tens and
even hundreds of thousands of people  --  has become more coordinated.

"We don't have a leader like Martin Luther King or Cesar Chavez, but this is now
a national immigrant rights movement," said Joshua Hoyt, director of the
Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, which has helped organize
Chicago area rallies.

Activists say the Senate's decision last week not to push a bill that would have
given many illegal immigrants a chance at citizenship is neither a cause for
celebration nor a lost opportunity  --  it's a chance to regroup.

Voter registration and citizenship education initiatives are set to begin in
several states after a "Day Without an Immigrant" campaign planned for May 1, an
event that asks immigrants nationwide to stay home from work and school, and
refrain from making purchases.

"Marches will only get you so far," said Armando Navarro, coordinator of the
National Alliance for Human Rights, a network of Hispanic activist groups in
Southern California. "There has to be an electoral component to get the
Republicans out of the majority."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              147 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

RALLY VOICES

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 1386 words


They came by the thousands to make a statement to Congress, to the country.
Here's a sampling of who the marchers were, and what they wanted to say:

Patricia López, 22

Country of origin: Mexico

Lives in: Woodbridge

Family: husband, a protest organizer

Occupation: cashier and waitress

Immigration status: illegal immigrant

How'd you hear about the march? husband

What message do you want people to hear? "Our rights need to be respected.
Nobody is a criminal simply for being an immigrant. They should give us
legalization with dignity."

*  *  *

Charles Vela, 54

Country of origin: El Salvador

Lives in: Potomac

Family: wife, social scientist; three children, ages 28, 26 and 24

Occupation: scientist, owns consulting company

Immigration status: U.S. citizen

How'd you hear about the march? friends

Message: "I don't think it's fair that people who risk everything to come here
live in fear that they're going to be sent back. We have humanitarian policies
for people in other countries  --  why not here?"

*  *  *

Emily Pascale, 16

Country of origin: United States

Lives in: Washington

Family: immigrant parents from Uruguay and Italy; 23-year-old brother born in
Uruguay

Occupation: high school student

How'd you hear about the march? friends in school,  brother

Message:  Some classmates are here illegally, and "I think they could go so far
in education. A lot have gotten scholarships to go to great schools, and they
can't because they're illegal."

*  *  *

Maher Bitar, 21

Country of origin: United States; parents from Israel and Lebanon

Lives in: Washington

Family: Came alone

Occupation: Georgetown University student

How'd you hear about the march? Campus Arab American groups

Message: "I've seen these signs at the Latino rallies, 'Don't punish us; we're
not the terrorists.' Does that imply that we Arab Americans are? We need to be
included in the debate."

*  *  *

Jose Andrade, 19

Country of origin: United states; family from Honduras

City of residence: Washington

Family: single

Occupation: Bell Multicultural High School student

How'd you hear about the march? Youth Action Research Group

Message: "I'm a student of history, and I've learned of the economic, political
problems [the] U.S. caused in South and Central America. It's no wonder people
want to come up here. What's happening now, the immigration, it's like poetic
justice, you know?"

*  *  *

Rami El-Amine, 35

Country of origin: Lebanon

Lives in: Washington

Family: none

Occupation: tech support for Office of Personnel Management

How'd you hear about the march? news and other activists

Message: "First the Patriot Act and now this. It will make it more difficult for
Arabs to immigrate and give the government more tools to detain and deport. It's
criminalization of immigrants."

*  *  *

Yolanda Santiago, 55

Place of origin: Puerto Rico

Lives in: Silver Spring

Been in the United States: More than 25 years

Occupation: information technology

Immigration status: U.S. citizen

How'd you hear about the march? friends, colleagues

Message: "We're all immigrants. If I'm all right, but my friends are in trouble,
we're all in trouble. This is a country of immigrants. There was a time when
papers were denied to the Irish. The Italians, too. And the Jews."

*  *  *

Dora Reyes, 51

Country of origin: El Salvador

Lives in: Woodbridge

Family: She and her husband, a truck driver, have temporary protected status;
their children, Ingrid, 16, and Nancy, 7, both born in the United States

Occupation: homemaker

How'd you hear about the march? Radio and television, plus information from
demonstrations her daughter attended at school

Message:  Her children are U.S. citizens and "we don't want to leave them here"
and be forced to return to El Salvador. "So we have to fight. We want them to
have a better future."

*  *  *

Mike Langan, 45

Country of origin: United States

Lives in: Bethesda

Occupation: construction company owner

How'd you hear about the march? employees

Message: "I work with a lot of Latino guys. I stepped in to help out. . . . I'd
like to get the [immigration situation] cleaned up and everyone on the same
page."

*  *  *

Marcella Calderon, 18

Country of origin: Mexico

Lives in: Reston

Family: mother, Roselia Torres

Occupation: Westfield High School student

How did you hear about the march? "It's everywhere," but primarily at church

Message: "I want people to know we're not criminals. We're here to work. We are
coming here to make the American dream."

*  *  *

Dick Marks, 63

Country of origin: United States; mother emigrated from Canada

Lives in: Silver Spring.

Occupation: Retired manager of health organization

How'd you hear about the march?  newspapers and "all the 'peacenik' groups I've
joined"

Message:  "It's not weird to be white and marching in the crowd. I've marched
for peace, against war in Iraq. I got an anti-torture one coming up at [Vice
President] Cheney's house on Friday. This is how you support a cause, make your
contribution."

*  *  *

Maria Isabel Aguilar, 84

Country of origin: El Salvador

Lives in: Hyattsville

Family: two sons, both with her in the United States

Immigration status: U.S. citizen

How'd you hear about the march? son's construction workplace

Message:  "Don't treat us like criminals! Because we came for a better life! I'm
legal, thank God, but others need the same chance."

*  *  *

Kevin Lancaster, 48

Country of origin: United States

Lives in: Frederick

Occupation: Construction

Message:  "I have no problem with immigrants coming over here, but you can't
open the floodgates. My taxes are paying for their hospitalization and a lot of
other things."

*  *  *

Carolina Herrera, 41

Family: husband, a press operator for a Virginia printing company; four
children, ages 22, 17, 14 and 6

Country of origin: Mexico

Lives in: Manassas

Employment: press assistant for a Virginia printing company

How'd you hear about the march? flier

Message: "We're not criminals. . . . We're uniting so that there will be no more
discrimination."

*  *  *

Delfino Garrido, 27

Country of origin: Mexico

Lives in: Manassas

Family: single

Occupation: house painter; Northern Virginia Community College student

How'd you hear about the march? Spanish radio

Message: "The Hispanics, we are a force. We work, we're political, we want to
prosper. We want America to prosper as well as Guatemala and El Salvador. We're
not all bad people."

*  *  *

Gabriel Flores, 25

Country of origin: El Salvador

Lives in: Washington

Family: Mother, brother, uncle, cousins

How'd you hear about the march? Hispanic radio stations

Message: "We are not criminals. We are not terrorists. We want to continue to
work here. I came out here for my family, for my brother, for my uncle and me."

*  *  *

Joshua Lopez, 22

Country of origin: Born in the United States to parents born in Guatemala

Lives in: Washington

Family: parents, siblings

Occupation: aspiring politician

How'd you hear about the march? Community meetings

Message: "We have come here due to unfortunate circumstances in our countries .
. . but we are here. We are here to work; we are here to live. We are here to
contribute to society. We are here to stay."

*  *  *

Silvia Diaz, 46

County of origin: El Salvador

Lives in: Silver Spring

Family: husband, four children

Immigration status: U.S. citizen

Occupation: counselor

How'd you hear about the march? Works for group that organized

Message: "When we come to this country, we don't come to live on this country
--  we come to work, to make a decent living. . . . We have adjusted to this
country well. We go to school; we have learned the language; we learn the law;
we know what the law is. We know the traditions of this country. We celebrate
the same way as United States citizens."

*  *  *

Scott Brother, 33

Lives in: Clarksville, Va.

Occupation: Construction

Message: "I don't want Osama Bin Laden sneaking through the border. I don't want
just anyone to come through the border. To be part of the land, you have to
follow the laws of the land."

Staff writers Annie Gowen, Hamil Harris, Ernesto Londoño, Nancy Trejos, Paul
Schwartzman, Mary Beth Sheridan and William Wan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              148 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Washington Post Staff Writer

LENGTH: 52 words


While the country and Congress debate the future of illegal workers in America,
a quieter fight involving immigration is being battled. This week, both the
House and Senate heard arguments on whether to extend the H-1B visa program
which has been used to lure highly-skilled workers to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Workers in Emirates Find Their Voice;
Foreign Laborers Protest in Face of Low Pay, and Sometimes No Pay

BYLINE: Jim Krane, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A24

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates


The Al Hamed construction labor camp is a hardscrabble jumble of battered
trailers where 7,800 laborers sleep, cook meals and kneel to pray in an outdoor
pavilion of corrugated tin.

The camp lies on Dubai's desert outskirts, out of view of the wealthy foreigners
in the shoreline skyscrapers and the tourists thronging to mall boutiques like
Prada and Gucci.

The workers in this camp, however, know the city's luxurious attractions. They
built them, on salaries that range from $135 to $400 a month.

Despite their low wages, and despite the tens of billions of dollars in oil
revenue pouring into the United Arab Emirates, laborers sometimes have trouble
coaxing their employers to pay up. Three to five months without pay is common.
Some say they have not seen salaries in a year or longer.

In the past, the docile immigrant workforce had little redress. But this year,
thousands of laborers have walked off construction sites, blocking roads,
marching in protest to the Labor Ministry or simply refusing to work.

"Any worker who doesn't get paid should go on strike," said a 33-year-old Indian
man visiting the Dubai Court's labor section who gave his name only as Zia, for
fear of being fired and deported for speaking to a reporter. "You have to go on
strike, because it is successful."

Zia was one of a dozen laborers filing grievances last month for as much as six
months of back pay.

The protests have galvanized the federal Labor Ministry into cracking down on
the offending companies, saying they are tarnishing the reputation of the
country just as it negotiates a free trade agreement with the United States.
Workers' rights are a critical factor in those talks.

By the Labor Ministry's count, unpaid workers have organized 18 strikes this
year, involving more than 10,000 protesters. Most were in Dubai, the wealthiest
of the country's seven emirates.

Labor Undersecretary Khalid Alkhazraji promised last month to name offending
companies and their owners, an unprecedented step since royal family members who
own companies could be painted in an unfavorable light. Three companies have
been named publicly  --  none of them with openly royal connections.

"If they don't care about our country's reputation, we don't care about their
reputation," Alkhazraji said.

This week, the ministry announced a hotline for laborers to report unpaid wages.

Nearly a million migrants from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, China and elsewhere
have poured into this desert sheikdom to provide the low-wage muscle behind one
of the world's great building booms. In five decades, Dubai has mushroomed from
a primitive town of 20,000 to a gridlocked metropolis of 1.5 million.

Last year alone, the Emirates government in Abu Dhabi issued 500,000 visas for
incoming workers  --  a 20 percent increase in the country's workforce,
Alkhazraji said.

Almost 98 percent of private-sector workers in the Emirates are foreigners,
mostly men, who make up more than 80 percent of the country's 4 million
inhabitants.

In most Gulf Arab states, the situation is similar. In Saudi Arabia, Kuwait,
Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and the Emirates, lawyers here say, it has become customary
for contractors to withhold migrants' passports and three or more months of
wages to keep them from leaving. When a company has financial trouble, laborers
feel the pain first, said Mohammed Roken, former chairman of the Emirates'
Jurists Association.

Human Rights Watch and the State Department have criticized the Emirates and
other Persian Gulf countries as centers of human trafficking and worker
exploitation.

In Saudi Arabia, Human Rights Watch in 2004 said some Asian migrants worked in
"slavery-like conditions."

The State Department last month upgraded its assessment of the Emirates and
Qatar, but they remain on a watch list. Saudi Arabia and Kuwait still face
sanctions that can be waived only by the president.

The Emirates has a big impetus to treat its workers better. The free trade pact
it is negotiating with the United States stands to make this business-savvy
country even more wealthy. Dubai is a duty-free trading hub, with some of the
world's busiest air and sea ports. Washington has already signed free trade
pacts with Bahrain and Oman that remain to be ratified by Congress.

Holding up the Emirates deal are U.S. demands that would give workers the right
to form unions and bargain collectively, Alkhazraji acknowledged. He said trade
unions could have huge economic consequences for the Emirates, perhaps slowing
the building boom while radicalizing the workforce.

That already seems to be happening, and protest appears to pay.

In September, after about 1,000 workers from the Al Hamed camp blocked the
city's main highway, the Labor Ministry ordered the company to pay three months'
back wages within days. The company complied, but was also fined and banned from
hiring more foreign workers and landing government contracts.

Although the Labor Ministry had intervened in disputes before, it had never come
down so comprehensively on the side of workers, observers here say.

Back at the camp, the evening sun burnished the trailers as exhausted laborers
in identical blue coveralls streamed off buses to fix dinner.

One worker said his lifestyle bore little correlation to the mighty achievements
he was partly responsible for: turning the undulating desert into a Middle
Eastern metropolis. "Maybe some are proud working here, building this Dubai,"
said the worker, a college-educated Indian man who refused to give his name for
fear of losing his job. "But it's not fair. The country is making money, but
what about the laborers?"

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              150 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Shortage of Immigrant Workers Alarms Growers in West;
Stricter Border Control, Working Conditions Cited as Fewer Mexicans Cross for
Harvest

BYLINE: Sonya Geis, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 902 words

DATELINE: CALEXICO, Calif.


Hours before dawn, Chuck Clunn stood on a street corner in this dusty border
town and shook his head, dismayed at the small number of men milling in the
dark. Workers usually swarm streets near the border crossing in the early
morning hours, but today Clunn and other labor contractors looking for
farmworkers found a crowd half the size they had been hoping for.

"This is usually just people everywhere. Last year the whole town was moving,"
Clunn said. Now, he said, the foremen say, "Hey, man, we have plenty of
generals, but there's no Indians."

For the past year, the fertile valleys here that provide 90 percent of the
nation's winter lettuce have faced a labor shortage. The construction industry
is booming, luring workers with year-round jobs offering better pay. U.S. Border
Patrol agents have been cracking down in nearby Arizona, leading many of those
who pick the crops  --  almost all of them Mexican and many, by all accounts,
illegal aliens  --  to avoid the lettuce-growing border counties.

With the lettuce harvest beginning, farmers in the $1 billion winter vegetable
industry are panicking about getting their crops out of the ground. Vegetable
growers estimate they could be 32,000 workers short of the 54,000 they need for
the winter harvest, which runs until March. Last year, local farmers left
hundreds of acres of lettuce in the fields because they lacked the manpower to
harvest it.

Worker shortages have swept the Western agriculture industry, bringing $300
million in losses to raisin growers in California's San Joaquin Valley in
September and causing consternation about this winter's harvest from the
Christmas tree farms of Oregon to the melon fields of Arizona.

"Today I have approximately 290 people working in the field," Jon Vessey said
recently. Vessey runs an 8,000-acre winter vegetable farm with his son, Jack,
near El Centro, Calif. "I should have 400, and for the harvest I need 1,100. . .
. There's a disaster coming."

The Western Growers Association, which represents 3,000 farmers, is lobbying the
Bush administration to make it easier for farmers to tap the labor pool just
below the border.

Labor Department statistics show that about half of the nation's 1.8 million
farmworkers are in the country illegally. Tom Nassif, the association's
president, said growers try to check workers' documentation but many have
falsified papers.

Nassif said a better approach would be for the U.S. government to allow Mexican
citizens to live here while working in the fields and return to Mexico when the
work is done. His long-term goal is to see passage of the Agricultural Job
Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act, or AgJobs. The bill, proposed by Sens.
Larry Craig (R-Idaho) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), would allow undocumented
farmworkers already in the United States to become legal permanent residents and
would streamline the current guest-worker program.

"There are just some jobs people don't want to do," Nassif said. "It's the most
developed nation in the world using a foreign workforce, and people need to
recognize that. We need to make them legal."

Jack Vessey said he listed openings for 300 laborers at the state office of
employment last week to prepare the lettuce fields for harvest. "We got one
person," he said. "He showed up and said, 'I'm not going to do that.' "

Marc Grossman of the United Farm Workers acknowledged that the growers face a
labor shortage, and he said his organization is cooperating with Western Growers
to back the AgJobs bill. But Grossman said the labor shortage "is largely of
their own making."

In the fields, he said, "the pay is so low, the benefits nonexistent, the
conditions so harsh, if you can, you do something else," Grossman said. "You
save money and buy a tool belt and go into construction. Or you work at a hotel.
Anything to escape the fields."

Growers and workers also said illegal workers have moved north because of
increased enforcement of immigration laws along the Arizona and eastern
California border with Mexico. Border Patrol arrests were up 41 percent between
fiscal 2005 and 2004 near Yuma, Ariz., where lettuce is grown.

Workers and labor contractors have numerous stories about the Border Patrol
targeting farmworkers.

"Over in Brawley I lost three crews to the Border Patrol," said Gilberto Lopez,
a labor contractor who competes with Clunn to provide workers to local farms.
"People hear about that and leave. They don't want to be harassed."

Border Patrol officials denied focusing on farmworkers.

"Our position is not to target agricultural workers specifically," said Michael
Gramley, spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol's Yuma sector. "Our target is any
illegal aliens."

Yuma Mayor Larry Nelson, a Republican, said he once believed the border should
be closed entirely. Responsibility for his community's economic health has
changed his mind, he said.

"We have more jobs in America than we have workers," he said. "If you took every
illegal out of the United States right now, you would shut down the food
industry, the vast majority of the hotels and all the service industries. If you
stop [immigration], this nation will come to a screeching halt."

Jon Vessey agreed. "Most people out there say, 'Let's close the borders. And
then we'll just go down to Von's and get our vegetables,' " he said, referring
to a supermarket chain. "Well, it doesn't work that way."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              151 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Mexican Ambassador Calls For More Bridges, Fewer Barriers

BYLINE: Nora Boustany

SECTION: A Section; A14 , DIPLOMATIC DISPATCHES Nora Boustany

LENGTH: 833 words


The Senate kicks off debate this week on an immigration bill introduced by Arlen
Specter (R-Pa.), and Mexican diplomats here are hoping  the arguments will
address the humanitarian, legal and security aspects of this touchy topic in the
post-Sept. 11 world.

Ambassador Carlos de Icaza acknowledged frustration on both sides of the border
at the lack of progress on an agreement regulating the flow of unskilled labor
between the two countries, but he emphasized that no problem can be solved by
throwing up barriers.

"We need more bridges and less fences," he said in an interview Friday, the day
Specter introduced his draft legislation on a guest worker program. "To continue
working together on security issues, we need to put at the center of the
relationship our human dimension."  He told the story of a Mexican worker he
encountered in Arizona who had risked his life to cross the border to be able to
provide for his family. "For people like us, there is no other way," he recalled
his countryman telling him.

"You have hundreds of thousands living in a state of fear and in the shadows,"
the ambassador noted.  He made the case for Mexican government proposals backed
by the National Congress that acknowledge the principle of "shared
responsibility" by both countries.

The statistics he cited are daunting. Fifty-seven percent of all undocumented
workers in the United States come from Mexico, America's second-largest trading
partner. Of the 25 million residents of Mexican origin in the United States, 15
million are U.S.-born, while 900,000 people  cross the border daily in both
directions, he said.

"We hope the American Congress will decide on . . . comprehensive immigration
reform and a guest worker program that corresponds to the reality of the
problem," de Icaza said.

Tamar Jacoby, a specialist with the Manhattan Institute, a New York-based think
tank, commended Specter for introducing his bill, a first draft of a major
overhaul of  U.S. immigration law. But "the good news is that it is only a first
draft," she added. Jacoby has been active in organizing the center-right of the
political spectrum behind  proposals taking shape in Washington.

De Icaza pointed out that the Mexican workers are needed for field work and
other types of labor that Americans decline to perform. His compatriots are
drawn by simple economics: "It does not matter how well we do  --  the U.S.
economy is 15 times the size of Mexico's economy," he noted. "We want to
regulate the flow. The Mexican nation as a whole wants to have a humane, legal,
secure, safe and dignified migration flow."

The ambassador said Mexico is prepared to cooperate with the United States on
conducting background checks for workers and providing some training, and also
wants to have enforceable contracts on workers' pay, health and insurance
benefits. Both countries would share the costs, he said.

"Nothing seems to be stopping the undocumented flow of laborers. Even if we get
immigration from Mexico to decline, we are a transit country," he said.  Mexico,
he explained, has had to deport 250,000 migrants trying to push through its
southern border in hopes of reaching the U.S. labor market to stake out their
own slice of the American dream.

"We are neighbors. This is a marriage with no divorce," de Icaza said.

Nothing can surpass this last bit of diplomatic theater here by German
Ambassador Wolfgang Ischinger, who is soon to become Berlin's ambassador to the
Court of St. James's: He planned to arrive at a farewell dinner given in his
honor by British Ambassador David Manning on Tuesday evening in a humongous,
spanking-new Rolls-Royce, made by an enterprise that is now German-owned, though
the car's interior is still produced in  Britain.

Ischinger has been making his departure rounds in this not-so-shabby motorcar,
courtesy of the company's new owners, BMW. Now that he has nursed bilateral
relations back to health after a rocky and strenuous five years, he could not be
making a classier exit.

Last week, at Ischinger's final official dinner at his Foxhall Road residence,
guests thought he was joshing when he asked if they had noticed the new car
parked out front  --  and they saw the Rolls.

"This is the last supper for a senior German politician, so for me this is the
beginning of my final act," Ischinger noted last Tuesday at the dinner he hosted
for Juergen Ruettgers, the governor of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany's largest
state and the home of the former capital, Bonn. The state is a vast regional
base for industry, including about 560 U.S. companies providing Germans with
170,000 jobs.

Ruettgers, who at one point served as  minister for research and technology,
said he comes to Washington every year not only to make a small contribution to
German-American relations but to get a sense of the major issues here.

"Ischinger has done a great job. He has always had good judgment and a great
heart for the United States and its people," the governor said.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              152 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

We Don't Need 'Guest Workers'

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 963 words


Economist Philip Martin of the University of California likes to tell a story
about the state's tomato industry. In the early 1960s, growers relied on
seasonal Mexican laborers, brought in under the government's "bracero" program.
The Mexicans picked the tomatoes that were then processed into ketchup and other
products. In 1964 Congress killed the program despite growers' warnings that its
abolition would doom their industry. What happened? Well, plant scientists
developed oblong tomatoes that could be harvested by machine. Since then,
California's tomato output has risen fivefold.

It's a story worth remembering, because we're being warned again that we need
huge numbers of "guest workers"  --  meaning unskilled laborers from Mexico and
Central America  --  to relieve U.S. "labor shortages." Indeed, the shortages
will supposedly worsen as baby boomers retire. President Bush wants an
open-ended program. Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.)
advocate initially admitting 400,000 guest workers annually. The Senate is
considering these and other plans.

Gosh, they're all bad ideas.

Guest workers would mainly legalize today's vast inflows of illegal immigrants,
with the same consequence: We'd be importing poverty. This isn't because these
immigrants aren't hardworking; many are. Nor is it because they don't
assimilate; many do. But they generally don't go home, assimilation is slow and
the ranks of the poor are constantly replenished. Since 1980 the number of
Hispanics with incomes below the government's poverty line (about $19,300 in
2004 for a family of four) has risen 162 percent. Over the same period, the
number of non-Hispanic whites in poverty rose 3 percent and the number of
blacks, 9.5 percent. What we have now  --  and would with guest workers  --  is
a conscious policy of creating poverty in the United States while relieving it
in Mexico. By and large, this is a bad bargain for the United States. It
stresses local schools, hospitals and housing; it feeds social tensions (witness
the Minutemen). To be sure, some Americans get cheap housecleaning or
landscaping services. But if more mowed their own lawns or did their own
laundry, it wouldn't be a tragedy.

The most lunatic notion is that admitting more poor Latino workers would ease
the labor market strains of retiring baby boomers. The two aren't close
substitutes for each other. Among immigrant Mexican and Central American workers
in 2004, only 7 percent had a college degree and nearly 60 percent lacked a high
school diploma, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Among native-born
U.S. workers, 32 percent had a college degree and only 6 percent did not have a
high school diploma. Far from softening the social problems of an aging society,
more poor immigrants might aggravate them by pitting older retirees against
younger Hispanics for limited government benefits.

It's a myth that the U.S. economy "needs" more poor immigrants. The illegal
immigrants already here represent only about 4.9 percent of the labor force, the
Pew Hispanic Center reports. In no major occupation are they a majority. They're
36 percent of insulation workers, 28 percent of drywall installers and 20
percent of cooks. They're drawn here by wage differences, not labor "shortages."
In 2004, the median hourly wage in Mexico was $1.86, compared with $9 for
Mexicans working in the United States, said Rakesh Kochhar of Pew. With high
labor turnover in the jobs they take, most new illegal immigrants can get work
by accepting wages slightly below prevailing levels.

Hardly anyone thinks that most illegal immigrants will leave. But what would
happen if new illegal immigration stopped and wasn't replaced by guest workers?
Well, some employers would raise wages to attract U.S. workers. Facing greater
labor costs, some industries would  --  like the tomato growers in the 1960s  --
find ways to minimize those costs. As to the rest, what's wrong with higher
wages for the poorest workers? From 1994 to 2004, the wages of high school
dropouts rose only 2.3 percent (after inflation) compared with 11.9 percent for
college graduates.

President Bush says his guest worker program would "match willing foreign
workers with willing American employers, when no Americans can be found to fill
the jobs." But at some higher wage, there would be willing Americans. The number
of native high school dropouts with jobs declined by 1.3 million from 2000 to
2005, estimates Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
favors less immigration. Some lost jobs to immigrants. Unemployment remains high
for some groups (9.3 percent for African Americans, 12.7 percent for white
teenagers).

Business organizations understandably support guest worker programs. They like
cheap labor and ignore the social consequences. What's more perplexing is why
liberals, staunch opponents of poverty and inequality, support a program that
worsens poverty and inequality. Poor immigrant workers hurt the wages of
unskilled Americans. The only question is how much. Studies suggest a range
"from negligible to an earnings reduction of almost 10 percent," according to
the CBO.

It's said that having guest workers is  better than having poor illegal
immigrants. With legal status, they'd have rights and protections. They'd have
more peace of mind and face less exploitation by employers. This would be
convincing if its premise were incontestable: that we can't control our southern
border. But that's unproved. We've never tried a policy of real barriers and
strict enforcement against companies that hire illegal immigrants. Until that's
shown to be ineffective, we shouldn't adopt guest worker programs that don't
solve serious social problems  --  but add to them.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              153 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Providing Jobs With Dignity

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 174 words


Regarding "The Job No Americans Want Isn't Getting Any Easier" [news story,
April 3]:

Part of the reason Americans will not take low-paying jobs is our minimum wage
is set so low that it cannot support an individual, let alone a family.

Part of the reason the minimum wage is so low is illegal workers are willing to
work for less than that wage.

Part of the reason the lowest-paid jobs usually carry no benefits is that
illegal workers are willing to work without them.

Raising the minimum wage and ensuring benefits for workers, which might result
in Americans actually taking those jobs, would also raise the prices of our
goods, which some Americans see as unacceptable. A guest-worker program that  --
I would hope  --  ensures benefits and decent wages for foreign workers also
would increase prices.

Americans live in a fantasy world of cheap goods, cheap food and cheap gasoline
that abuses people and the environment with no thought as to the consequences
--  for individuals or for our collective future.

TAMAR DONOVAN

Columbia

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              154 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         March 27, 2006 Monday 10:57 AM

President Bush Talks Immigration at Naturalization Ceremony

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: E-Media Services

LENGTH: 4164 words

HIGHLIGHT: SPEAKERS: GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES


SPEAKERS: GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES

ALBERTO GONZALES, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL

EMILIO GONZALEZ, DIRECTOR, U.S. CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES

GONZALEZ: Thank you for following this important civic path paved by millions of
immigrants before you. And congratulations on being the newest citizens of this
great country of ours, for with your naturalization, you strengthen the cause of
freedom, you invigorate our democratic institutions, and you rejuvenate and
strengthen the tree of liberty.

You are living proof of the value of immigration into this great land.

This is my third official naturalization ceremony since I was given the honor to
serve as director of citizenship and immigration services not three months ago.
These events are as meaningful to me as they are to you.

But I actually count this as my fourth naturalization ceremony. You see, on
February 1st, in the privacy of my office, I signed posthumous naturalization
certificates for immigrant soldiers who lost their lives fighting for our nation
in the war on terror. Our citizenship -- your citizenship -- is so valuable that
family members still want their deceased loved ones honored with it.

Today, approximately 40,000 men and women in uniform are serving our great
nation who are not themselves citizens. These men and women place their lives on
the line every single day to defend our nation and a system of government that
they cannot as of yet participate in.

These brave individuals understand all too well what many still don't or won't:
that our 230-year-old experiment in democracy is not only worth fighting for,
but it's worth dying for. These men and women truly get it.

Not far from here, across the street from the White House, is one of my favorite
places in Washington, D.C. And if you haven't been there, I suggest you go to
Lafayette Park, a truly magnificent place to visit.

In the center is a beautiful statute of General Andrew Jackson. In each corner
of the park, there are statues of four Revolutionary War heroes: Generals
Lafayette, Rouchambeau, von Steuben and the Polish-born General Tadeusz
Kosciuszko.

All four of these heroes were foreigners who came to America to fight for our
independence, and it is, I believe, the only park of its kind here in
Washington.

And as a former soldier and student of history, my favorite there, I can tell
you, is General Kosciuszko.

A Polish- and French-trained artillery and engineering officer, Kosciuszko came
to the United States to enlist in the fledgling Continental Army. According to a
wonderful legend, Kosciuszko presented himself before a very tired General
George Washington, who was not quite sure what to do with yet another foreign
volunteer lacking in English skills.

"I've come to fight for American independence," Kosciuszko told Washington, so
the story goes.

"But what can you do?" asked General Washington. "What can you do?"

GONZALEZ: His response was short, simple and profound. "Try me," responded the
foreigner. "Just try me."

So impressed was General Washington that Kosciuszko was made a colonel of
engineers, served with distinction during the Revolutionary War and was later
promoted to brigadier general.

Thomas Jefferson would later write of this adopted American, "He was as pure a
son of liberty as I have ever known and of that liberty which is to go to all
and not just a few or the rich alone."

Today, you all bring that "try me" spirit to the United States. All of you have
said "try me," and, by God, we're here to try you; the "try me" spirit that has
given us Senator Mel Martinez, an immigrant now serving in the United States
Senate; the "try me" spirit that produced Representative Tom Lantos, the only
Holocaust survivor and the most senior naturalized American in the United States
Congress; and the same "try me" spirit that brought millions of immigrants to
these shores before you, including, I might add, a refugee from Cuba who came to
this country with his family 45 years ago and whose son stands before you today.

Thank you, Mr. President, for the trust and confidence that you've placed in me
to lead the largest immigration service in the world.

Today, we all leave this great building as equal citizens. And there is nothing
more valuable than the citizenship you now have. Cherish it, nurture it, promote
it, defend it. Become Americans not only in name but in deed. Embrace your new
institutions and develop a healthy patriotism for your new country.

You are among the most fortunate people in the world today. You are sitting
where millions around the world would give anything to be sitting in.

I know this firsthand. I come from a community that radiates everything good and
decent about the American immigrant experience.

In my city, Miami, the majority of residents are foreign-born. In fact, my city
councilman, chief of police, mayor, member of Congress, United States senator
and the first lady of my state are all immigrants.

Most important, so is my wife.

(LAUGHTER)

Yet my hometown is as quintessentially American as is any other town in the
United States because we all adhere to the guiding principles of democracy and
of freedom.

I congratulate you today, this very, very important day. Cherish your
citizenship, nurture your citizenship, grow in your citizenship, become part of
this great country, and I guarantee this will be for you a day for you to
remember for the rest of your lives.

With that, I congratulate you once again. And since you didn't really come to
hear me speak today, I want to introduce somebody whose compelling personal
story is clearly what makes America great, an individual that I know as a man of
honor, character, integrity, courage and patriotism.

GONZALEZ: It is my high honor to introduce today the 80th attorney general of
the United States, Judge Alberto Gonzales.

(APPLAUSE)

GONZALES: Ladies and gentlemen, please rise and join me in reciting our Pledge
of Allegiance.

(PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE)

GONZALES: Please be seated.

America's promise lives in the words of our Constitution, in the mind of our
children who believe that anything is possible, and within the hearts of our
leaders.

I entered public service in part because I believed in George W. Bush. I
believed that he would work to create a society where everyone, including my
sons, would have a chance, an opportunity to succeed in our beautiful country.
And I believe in that still today.

We are, of course, responsible for ourselves and for our families, for our
children. But in truth, our future and our hopes also lie in the president's
hands.

And so, in a world of increasing complexity, unknown dangers and growing
challenges, I wake up each morning secure in the knowledge that America is led
by a good man, a courageous man, a compassionate man.

Hope is what America stands for. Hope is what all immigrants live by. And it is
what this president has given to many people here and around the world.

Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States.

(APPLAUSE)

BUSH: Thank you all. Thank you very much. It's good to be with you.

I am grateful for the chance to witness this joyous and uplifting ceremony. It
is inspiring to see people of many different ages, many different countries,
raise their hands and swear an oath to become citizens of the United States of
America.

For some of you this day comes after a long and difficult journey. For all of
you this is a defining moment in your lives. America is now more than your home;
America is your country.

I welcome you to this free nation. I congratulate you and your families. And
it's an honor to call you fellow Americans.

I appreciate the attorney general.

Dr. Gonzales, thank you, sir.

And, Alfonso (ph), it's good to be up here with you.

I want to thank the president general of the Daughters of the American
Revolution, Ms. Presley Wagoner, for letting us use this fantastic facility for
this important ceremony.

Thank you for singing the national anthem so beautifully.

It is fitting that we hold this ceremony at the home of the Daughters of the
American Revolution. The Daughters of the American Revolution are the daughters
of immigrants, because the leaders of our revolution all had ancestors who came
from abroad.

As new citizens of the United States, you now walk in the footsteps of millions.
And with the oath you've sworn, you're every bit as American as those who came
before you.

Our immigrant heritage has enriched America's history. It continues to shape our
society. Each generation of immigrants brings a renewal to our national
character and adds vitality to our culture.

Newcomers have a special way of appreciating the opportunities of America. And
when they seize those opportunities, our whole nation benefits.

In the 1790s, an immigrant from Ireland designed the White House, right where
Laura and I live, and he helped build the Capitol.

BUSH: In the 1990s, an immigrant from Russia helped create the Internet search
engine Google.

In between, new citizens have made contributions in virtually every professional
field and millions of newcomers have strengthened their communities through
quiet lives of hard work and family and faith.

America's welcoming society is more than cultural tradition; it is a fundamental
promise of our democracy.

Our Constitution does not limit citizenship by background or birth. Instead, our
nation is bound together by shared love of liberty and a conviction that all
people are created with dignity and value.

Through the generations, Americans have upheld that vision by welcoming new
citizens from across the globe, and that has made us stand apart.

One of my predecessors, President Ronald Reagan, used to say this: "You can go
to live in France, but you cannot become a Frenchman. You can go to live in
Japan, but you cannot become Japanese. But anyone, from any corner of the world,
can come to live in America and be an American."

The new Americans we welcome today include men and women from 20 countries on
five continents. Their ages range from 18 to 59. And they work as teachers and
small-business managers and nurses and software engineers and other professions.

BUSH: One new citizen is Veronica Percheco (ph). Veronica (ph) first came to the
United States from Bolivia 15 years ago. In 2000, she moved here permanently and
found a job at a catering company in Virginia.

Every Friday and Saturday, she spent five hours studying English at the local
community college. Over the years, she saved enough money to buy her own
townhouse.

Here's what she says about America: "This is a country of opportunity. If you
want to be successful, you can do it. You can have your dreams come true here."

Another new citizen is Masun Shaheen (ph). Masun (ph) grew up in Kuwait and
moved to the United States with her husband seven years ago. She enrolled in the
community college to improve her English; took a job teaching Marines to speak
Arabic.

Here is what Masun (ph) said: "The United States is a symbol of justice, freedom
and liberty. I love that. Here they respect people because they are people. I
feel I'm honored and I feel that I'm loved."

America is stronger and more dynamic when we welcome new citizens like Masun
(ph) and Veronica (ph) to our democracy.

With that in mind, I've called on Congress to increase the number of green cards
that can lead to citizenship.

I support increasing the number of visas available for foreign- born workers in
highly skilled fields like science, medicine and technology.

I've signed legislation creating a new Office of Citizenship at the Department
of Homeland Security to promote knowledge of citizenship rights and procedures.

And after September the 11th, I signed an executive order making foreign-born
members of our military immediately eligible for citizenship, because those
willing to risk their lives for our democracy should be full participants in our
democracy.

Over the past four years, more than 20,000 men and women in uniform have become
citizens of the country they serve. They've taken the citizenship oath on the
decks of aircraft carriers, on deployments to Afghanistan and Iraq, and at
military bases around the world.

Bethesda Naval Medical Center -- I watched a brave Marine born in Mexico raise
his right hand and become a citizen of the country he had defended in uniform
for more than 26 years.

It's a privilege to be the commander in chief of men and women like these.

BUSH: And I'm proud to call them fellow citizens.

All that swear the oath of citizenship are doing more than completing a legal
process. They are making a life-long pledge to support the values and the laws
of America.

The pledge comes with great privileges and it also comes with great
responsibilities. I believe every new citizen has an obligation to learn the
customs and values that define our nation, including liberty and civic
responsibility, equality under God, tolerance for others and the English
language.

Those of us who have been citizens for many years have responsibilities as well.
Helping new citizens assimilate is a mission that unites Americans by choice and
by birth.

I appreciate the work of patriotic organizations like the Daughters of the
American Revolution. Some of the new Americans here today might have used DAR's
manual for citizenship to prepare you for the citizenship test.

Obviously, you did a pretty good job, since you passed.

(LAUGHTER)

Many other organizations, from churches to businesses to civic organizations,
are answering the call to help new citizens succeed in our country. And I am
grateful for all those who reach out to people who are becoming citizens.

Government's doing its part to help new citizens succeed, as well.

The Office of Citizenship has created a new official guide for immigrants. It's
free publication includes practical advice on tasks like finding housing and
jobs or enrolling your children in school or paying taxes.

We're conducting outreach programs with faith-based and community groups to
offer civics and English language courses.

My administration will continue to pursue policies that open a path to education
and jobs, promote ownership and give every citizenship a chance to realize the
American dream.

Our nation is now in the midst of a debate on immigration policy. And it's good.
Immigration is an important topic. Immigration is also an emotional topic. And
we need to maintain our perspective as we conduct this debate.

At its core, immigration is the sign of a confident and successful nation. It
says something about our country that people around the world are willing to
leave their homes and leave their families and risk everything to come to
America.

BUSH: Their talent and hard work and love of freedom have helped America the
leader of the world. And our generation will ensure that America remains a
beacon of liberty and the most hopeful society the world has ever known.

America is a nation of immigrants, and we're also a nation of laws. All of you
are here because you followed the rules and you waited your turn in the
citizenship line.

Yet some violate our immigration laws and enter our country illegally. And that
undermines the system for all of us.

America should not have to choose between being a welcoming society and being a
lawful society. We can be both at the same time.

And so, to keep the promise of America, we must enforce the laws of America. We
must also reform those laws.

No one is served by an immigration system that allows large numbers of people to
sneak across the border illegally. Nobody benefits when the illegal immigrants
live in the shadows of society. Everyone suffers when people seeking to provide
for their families are left at the mercy of criminals or stuffed in the back of
18-wheelers or abandoned in the desert to die.

America needs comprehensive immigration reform. I've laid out a proposal for
comprehensive immigration reform that includes three critical elements: securing
the border, strengthening immigration enforcement inside our country, and
creating a temporary worker program.

These elements depend on and reinforce one another, and together they will give
America an immigration system that meets the needs of the 21st century.

The first element is securing our border. Our immigration system cannot function
if we cannot control the border. Illegal immigration puts a strain on law
enforcement and public resources, especially in our border communities.

Our nation is also fighting a war on terror, and terrorists crossing the border
could create destruction on a massive scale. The responsibility of government is
clear: We must enforce the border.

Since I took office, we've increased funding for border security by 66 percent.

We've expanded the Border Patrol to more than 12,000 agents; an increase of more
2,700 agents. And the budget next year funds another 1,500 new agents.

We're helping these dedicated men and women do their jobs by providing them with
cutting-edge technology, like infrared cameras, advanced motion sensors and
unmanned aerial vehicles.

We're installing protective infrastructure, such as vehicle barriers and fencing
in urban areas, to prevent people from crossing the border illegally.

BUSH: And we're integrating manpower and technology and infrastructure in more
unified ways than ever.

Our objective is to keep the border open to trade and tourism and closed to
criminals and drug dealers and terrorists.

Our strategy to secure the border is getting results.

Since I took office, our agents have apprehended and sent home more than 6
million people entering this country illegally, including more than 400,000 with
criminal records.

Federal, state, and local and tribal enforcement officials are working
side-by-side.

Through the Arizona Border Control Initiative, we've apprehended more than
600,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona last year.

The men and women of our Border Patrol have made good progress. But we have much
more work ahead, and we cannot be satisfied until we're in full control of the
border.

We're also changing the way we process those we catch crossing the border
illegally. More than 85 percent of the illegal immigrants we apprehend are from
Mexico, and most are sent back home within 24 hours.

We face a different challenge with non-Mexicans. For decades, government
detention facilities did not have enough beds for the non- Mexican illegal
immigrants caught at the border, and so most were released back into society.
They were each assigned a court date, but virtually nobody showed up.

The practice of catch-and-release is unwise, and my administration is going to
end it. To end catch-and-release, we're increasing the number of beds in
detention facilities by 12 percent this year and by another 32 percent next
year.

We're also expanding our use of a process called expedited removal, which allows
us to send non-Mexican illegal immigrants home more quickly.

Last year it took an average of 66 days to process one of these illegal
immigrants. Now we do it in 21 days. The goal is to increase the process faster.

It's helped us to end the catch-and-release for illegal immigrants from Brazil
and Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua caught crossing our southwest border.

And since last summer, we've cut the number of non-Mexican illegal immigrants
released in society by more than a third.

BUSH: We've set a goal to end catch-and-release over the next year.

I look forward to working with Congress to close loopholes that makes it
difficult for us to process illegal immigrants from certain countries. And we
will continue to press foreign governments, like China, to take back their
citizen who've entered our country illegally.

When illegal immigrants know they are going to be caught and sent home, they
will be less likely to break the rules in the first place, and the system will
be more orderly and secure for those who follow the law.

The second part of a comprehensive immigration reform is strengthening
enforcement of our laws in the interior of our country.

Since I took office we've increased funding for immigration enforcement by 42
percent, and these resources have helped our agents bring to justice some very
dangerous people: smugglers, terrorists, gang members and human traffickers.

For example, through Operation Community Shield, federal agents have arrested
nearly 2,300 gang members who were here illegally, including violent criminals
like the members of MS-13.

Better interior enforcement also requires better work site enforcement.
Businesses have an obligation to abide by the law and the government has the
responsibility to help them do so.

Last year I signed legislation to more than double the resources dedicated to
work site enforcement. We'll continue to confront the problem of document fraud,
because hardworking business owners should not have to act as detectives to
verify the status of their workers.

Next month, we're going to launch law enforcement task forces in 11 major cities
to dismantle document fraud rings. We're working to shut down the forgers who
create the phony documents, to stop the smugglers who traffic in human beings,
and to ensure that American businesses comply with American law.

The third part of comprehensive immigration reform is to make the system more
rational, orderly and secure by creating a new temporary worker program. This
program would provide a legal way to match willing foreign workers with willing
American employers to fill the jobs that Americans are unwilling to do.

Workers should be able to register for legal status on a temporary basis.

BUSH: If they decide to apply for citizenship, they would have to get in line.

This program would help meet the demands of a growing economy. And it would
allow honest workers to provide for their families while respecting the law.

A temporary worker program is vital to securing our border. By creating a
separate legal channel for those entering America to do an honest day's labor,
we would dramatically reduce the number of people trying to sneak back and forth
across the border. That would help take the pressure off the border, and free up
law enforcement to focus on the greatest threats to our security, which are
criminals and drug dealers and terrorists.

The program would also improve security by creating tamper-proof identification
cards. That would allow us to keep track of every temporary worker who is here
on a legal basis, and help us identify those who are here illegally.

One thing the temporary worker program should not do is provide amnesty for
people who are in our country illegally. I believe granting amnesty would be
unfair because it would allow those who break the law to jump ahead of people
like you all: people who play by the rules and have waited in the line for
citizenship.

Amnesty would also be unwise, because it would encourage future waves of illegal
immigration, it would increase pressure on the border, and make it difficult for
law enforcement to focus on those who mean us harm.

For the sake of justice and border security, I firmly oppose amnesty.

This week, the Senate plans to consider legislation on immigration reform.

BUSH: Congress needs to pass a comprehensive bill that secures the border,
improves interior enforcement and creates a temporary worker program to
strengthen our security and our economy.

Completing a comprehensive bill is not going to be easy. It will require all of
us in Washington to make tough choices and make compromises. And that is exactly
what the American people sent us here to do.

As we move toward the process, we also have a chance to move beyond tired
choices and the harsh attitudes of the past.

The immigration debate should be conducted in a civil and dignified way. No one
should play on people's fears, or try to pit neighbors against each other. No
one should pretend that immigrants are threats to America's identity, because
immigrants have shaped America's identity. No one should claim that immigrants
are a burden on our economy, because the work and enterprise of immigrants helps
sustain our economy.

We should not give in to pessimism. If we work together, I'm confident we can
meet our duty to fix our immigration system, and deliver a bill that protects
our people, upholds our laws and makes our people proud.

It's a joyful day for all of you and it's one you'll always remember.

When you came here this morning, I was the president of another country. Now I'm
the president of your country. And I'm grateful for that honor.

I wish you good luck as citizens of the greatest nation on the face of the
Earth.

May God bless you and your families. And may God continue to bless America.

Thank you very much.

(APPLAUSE)

END

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         March 31, 2006 Friday 01:00 PM

Bush To Meet With Fox, Harper in Mexico;
Leaders to Address Immigration, Trade and Border Security Issues

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Washington Post Staff Writer

LENGTH: 2668 words

HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post staff writer Manuel Roig-Franzia , who is covering
President Bush 's trip in Cancun, Mexico, will be online Friday, March 31, at
1:00 p.m. ET to discuss the President's meeting with Canadian Prime Minister
Stephen Harper and Mexican President Vicente Fox and their discussion of
immigration, trade, border security and other issues.


Washington Post staff writer

Manuel Roig-Franzia , who is covering

President Bush 's trip in Cancun, Mexico, will be online

Friday, March 31, at 1:00 p.m. ET to discuss the President's meeting with
Canadian Prime Minister

Stephen Harper and Mexican President

Vicente Fox and their discussion of immigration, trade, border security and
other issues.

http://discuss.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/zforum/content/submit_world17.htm"
target=" Submit your questions and comments before or during today's discussion.

____________________

Washington, D.C.: Please comment on the upcoming elections in Mexico and how
that could impact the Mexico-U.S. relationship.

Manuel Roig-Franzia: The race may be tightening a bit. For months, Andres Manuel
Lopez Obrador of the PRD has been the frontrunner. But a recent poll showed
Felipe Calderon of the PAN - current president Vicente Fox's party - closing the
gap slightly. Robert Madrazo of the PRI, the party that ruled Mexico for seven
decades until Fox was elected is running a distant third. Lopez Obrador is
loosely labeled a "Leftist," a term that gets tossed around a lot in Latin
America, but means different things for different people. Essentially, he's
viewed as the favorite of the poor and his rhetoric regarding the U.S. has been
the least cozy of any of the candidates. Ultimately, all the candidates realize
that they have little control over the biggest issue in the U.S.-Mexico
relationship: the U.S. Congress's position on immigration.

_______________________

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Hi all, "La Cumbre" is over. Pres. Bush, Mexican pres.
Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Steven Harper will soon be ceding Cancun
to its more customary guests: the bikini-contest entrants and Spring Breakers
who pack discos filled with foam. Floor is open. We can talk about the
tri-lateral meeting, U.S. - Mexico relations, the border, whatever's on your
mind, including staging: how about that vest Harper wore to Chicehn Itza? It's
been getting plenty of buzz around here.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Buenos dias, were there any protests in Mexico along with this
summit, like what took place in Pakistan? If you have a sense, how do ordinary
Mexicans see this summit?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Not many protestors. A tiny group--a couple dozen or
so--banged drums and marched down the main street in downtown Cancun yesterday.
Their main theme seemed to be an attempt to draw a comparison between Pres. Bush
and Hitler, though that wasn't explained very fully.

Mexicans, like their leaders, had low expectations for this meeting. One Mexican
diplomat predicted to me before the meeting that there would be no "Big Bang"
development and judging from what we've heard, he was right.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Do Fox and Bush seemed strained with each other at all? The
relationship has deteriorated so much, I wonder what the two hope to get out of
this 'summit'.

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Neither of them came to the meeting in a strong position:
Bush with declining poll numbers, Fox leaving office in Decemeber after the July
elections, and weakened politically. They smiled for the cameras during that
rare moment of tourism at Chichen Itza, but there was a lot of body language in
public to indicate much chumminess.

_______________________

Annapolis, Md.: Please comment on efforts at border control in Mexico. How eager
are they to prevent outward migration, and also how much effort do they put into
stopping immigration from Central America into Mexico itself?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Good question. One of the interesting points made by Fox in
the just concluded news conference was that his government has been increasing
security on Mexico's southern border. He said more than 200,000 Central
Americans have been detained and returned to their countries by Mexican
authorities.

He also said more than 100 suspects have been detained and jailed for human
trafficking and that Mexican agents have been patrolling the interior, as well
as the border, to stop illegal migration. That said, I just returned from a trip
to the Arizona-Mexico border and did not personally observe much of a Mexican
border security presence and in some of the towns were migrants stage, hundreds
of men with backpacks and large bottles of water roam the streets, but there is
little law enforcement presence.

Of course, sometimes there isn't much visible security presence on the U.S. side
either. I drove across at Naco and there no visible agents, no one stopped my
car and their was no impediment to me crossing, just a wide, wide open lane.

_______________________

Chicago, Ill.: How much input does the Canadian Prime Minister have? This seems
like a two way dialogue, but maybe that's overgeneralizing.

Manuel Roig-Franzia: That probably is an overgeneralization, but I can see how
someone would arrive at that conclusion since almost all the press attention is
trained on Fox-Bush. Each of the presidents had separate meetings with each
other. They later met as a group. Harper has real issues on the table: there is
a major dispute about tariffs on Canadian wood and he's also concerned about a
U.S. law requiring passports or "passport-like documents" to be presented by
Canadians crossing into the U.S.

Harper is hearing loud complaints from Canadian businesses who fear the
requirement will stifle trade. At the news conference, Harper said he and Pres.
Bush had specific conversations about the Detroit-Windsor crossing.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Don't you miss working for the National desk and all the great
people there?! Ciao

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Big hug back to whomever sent this! And, of course, I miss
you, everyone of you. Come visit Mexico City.

_______________________

Va.: Since NAFTA, it seemed most Canadian companies moved to the U.S. than to
Mexico. How are Canada-Mexico relations?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Terrific question. Lots and lots of Mexicans fly up to
Canada to work under an arrangement negotiated between the two countries. While
the numbers are tiny compared to the number of Mexicans who cross-legally and
illegally-into the U.S., there are those here in Mexico who think aspects of the
Canada-Mexico arrangement could be applied to the U.S.-Mexico situation.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: If Fox is no longer in power after the elections, would Bush
still be able to implement any agreements they reach effectively?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Now there's a ticklish scenario. Fox's party is running
second in the presidential polls--rising according to two new polls--so there
would not be that institutional transfer of relations. Most analysts believe
that if Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador - AMLO for short - wins, it's almost
inevitable that he won't be as cozy with the U.S. and particularly with a
Republican presidential administration as Fox set out to be.

_______________________

Philadelphia, Pa.: Is there any significant reason why this meeting is in Cancun
or opposed to the Capitol or any reason why it is Mexico as opposed to the
United States?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: To hear Pres. Bush talk, the meeting was placed here so
that the White House traveling press corps could get in some sun by the pool. I
leave it up to you to decide whether he means that or not.

_______________________

Ripon, Calif.: So, what's the next step? Will there be more summit meetings? How
much influence does Canadian PR have in these proceedings?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Ripon, Calif? My hometown! Almond capitol of the world.

The next step is that the three nations are pledging to get their heads together
on the avian flu threat. They also announced another meeting to be held next
year in Canada, so for all you out there worried about Canada not having any
influence (and this seems to be a big concern of our chatters) maybe this is a
good sign.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: While not as bad as Katrina, Cancun was devistated by Hurricane
Wilma last year. Have the President's commented at all about the rebuilding of
Cancun and have there been any comparisons made to New Orleans?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Surprisingly little said about that. I can tell you that
many of the biggest hotels are still closed, though more than half have reopened
and are filled with party-all-night Spring Breakers, as my friends in the press
corps who haven't gotten any sleep can attest.

_______________________

Vancouver, Wash.: Hello Manuel Roig-Franzia, how are you? My question for you is
that the illegal immigrants who are here, can't they go back to Mexico , get a
passport and a work visa and then come back to work here in the U.S.? Also can't
they just apply for a green card if they are legal or not?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Sounds logical. But it's complicated, mainly complicated by
the massive numbers who want to go to the U.S. Plus it's no simple matter to get
a work visa. If it were, thousands of people would be lining up at the visa
distribution center instead of paying coyotes huge sums to sneak them through
the desert and across the border.

Pres. Bush said this afternoon that those who are in the U.S. illegally should
not be prevented from gaining legal status, but that they should not "go to the
head of the line."

_______________________

Anonymous: Why doesn't the media point out the effect of 70 years of one party
rule in Mexico and the fact that real income redistribution measures there
towards the poor would bring more economic justice to the poor and relieve the
need to flee their native country for opportunities?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: I think there's general consensus--in the media, in the
political world, in academia and in rights groups--that poverty in Mexico is the
driving force behind the huge numbers of Mexicans - and for that matter, Central
Americans -- who attempt to illegally enter the U.S. The minimum DAILY wage in
Mexico is less than the minimum HOURLY wage in the United States. You do the
math.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: The U.S. media seems stuck on the immigration issue and is
barely covering the other discussions going on there.

Any insights into how President Bush or PM Harper have reacted to President
Fox's suggestion that the three North American countries unite to combat China's
increasing economic power?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: You're right, immigration and U.S.-Mexico border security
have been the marquee issues. It has been interesting to hear in this chat and
in emails from many who feel the media has done a poor job covering the
Canadians.

Pres. Bush mentioned at the news conference that the three leaders discussed
ways of jointly fostering trade to compete with China and, also, India. He said
those nations shouldn't be feared, but that the three big North American powers
needed to find ways to ensure their copetitiveness.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: What is President Bush's relationship with Vicente Fox like?
When they meet, do they discuss these issues in English or Spanish?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Lots of speculation about their relationship. Back when
they were both new presidents many people envisioned a "ranchero diplomacy."
Think about it. A guy on the U.S. side who likes to clear brush at his Texas
spread and a guy in Mexico who likes riding horses on his ranch (though there
have been reports in the Mexican press that Fox doesn't ride much anymore
because of back problems).

Six days before Sept. 11, Bush said the U.S.'s most important foreign
relationship was with Mexico. That seems like a long, long, long time ago.

Terrific question about language... an often overlooked aspect of relations
between nations and peoples. Harper--you see all you Canada boosters, I'm not
ignoring your guy!--was far and away the grand champion linguist this afternoon.
Boy did he glide easily from French to English and back again. Really makes you
think the U.S. press should cover him more (woops, that's not my line, it's
yours).

Anyway, Bush and Fox stuck mostly to their native tongues, though Bush did close
his opening with remarks by saying "es todo," (that's all) followed by a big 'ol
self-satisfied grin. So, we have to give Bush some points for effort.

Fox finished third in that department. A Canadian journalist asked to answer a
question in English, but he plowed throwed his answer in puro Espanol. A bit
surprising because I've heard Fox speak English before.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Although this is not an issue that directly affects the U.S.,
has the subject of the high rate of murders in towns near the border come up?
This seems like a major issue given the high rate of violence.

Manuel Roig-Franzia: Fox mentioned Nuevo Laredo and stated that federal
authorities in Mexico are trying to get that volatile situation under control.

But that was nothing compared to the attention focused on the murder in Cancun
of a Canadian couple in February. Imagine, the press got just six--JUST
SIX--questions. And one of those questions was from a Canadian reporter who
tried to wrest some details out of Fox and Harper about the case, including
whether two people in Canada are suspects. Obviously this is a giant story in
Canada. Fox wasn't in a giving mood, saying the case is under investigation. But
Harper did pointedly note that there are no extradition requests at present and
that none are anticipated.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: Why does the issue of immigration always seem to be something
the U.S. has to "fix" rather than Mexico allowing greater U.S. investment in
their country to make Mexicans want to stay put?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: There are many people in Mexico who hold their country
reponsible in great part for not providing enough jobs and high enough salaries
to dissuade people from illegal migration attempts.

Fox has done some tough talking lately about the future. He got huge play in the
Mexican press recently when he declared that the U.S. would be "begging" for
workers from Mexico in 10 years because he thinks Mexico will straighten out
it's economy. Given the country's massive unemployment and poverty that comment
was greeted by ridicule in some quarters.

_______________________

Vancouver, B.C.: They tried the guestworker thing in many countries in Europe
(notably Germany) and aside from holidays, no one went back. Is there any talk
of other immigration models taking place and what happened there? Or is the U.S.
going unilateral on this one?

Manuel Roig-Franzia: I've been hearing a fair amount of chatter in Mexico about
the so-called "Spanish-Portuguese" model. Both those countries, the proponents
say, succeeded in stemming the flow of their workers out of the country to
higher paying jobs in the rest of Europe. The problem is so dire that almost
anything is on the table.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Thank you all for joining us today.

_______________________

Mexico City: Hi Manuel--I'd just like to echo your concern for Prime Minister's
fashion choice yesterday: what was the deal with that fish vest? I heard a lot
of snickers around these parts as well.

Manuel Roig-Franzia: For the record, I'm not taking a position on Harper's
outfit--I'll leave that to people who have better fashion sense than me. But I
can tell you that the snickering up there is echoed by the snickering down
here...

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not
responsible for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 260 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        April 6, 2006 Thursday 12:48 PM

Senators Hold News Conference on Immigration

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: CQ Transcriptions

LENGTH: 4020 words

HIGHLIGHT: SPEAKERS: U.S. SENATOR BILL FRIST (R-TN), SENATE MAJORITY LEADER


SPEAKERS: U.S. SENATOR BILL FRIST (R-TN), SENATE MAJORITY LEADER

U.S. SENATOR HARRY REID (D-NV), SENATE MINORITY LEADER

U.S. SENATOR ARLEN SPECTER (R-PA)

U.S. SENATOR JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ) U.S. SENATOR CHUCK HAGEL (R-NE)

U.S. SENATOR PAT LEAHY (D-VT)

U.S. SENATOR EDWARD KENNEDY (D-MA)

U.S. SENATOR BARACK OBAMA (D-IL)

U.S. SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC)

U.S. SENATOR PETE DOMENICI (R-NM)

U.S. SENATOR MEL MARTINEZ (R-FL)

U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH LIEBERMAN (D-CT)

U.S. SENATOR SAM BROWNBACK (R-KS)

[*]

FRIST: Good afternoon. We have several senators with me now. Other senators will
be coming in.

We're just completing our vote. But wanted to go ahead and get started to really
make a very important announcements. And that is the American people are well
aware of the challenge that we have today in terms of having an immigration
system that is flat out broken, broken at the borders, broken interiorly, at the
level -- at the place of the work site and also in terms of a temporary worker
program.

In October of last year, I set out a two-week plan that is being fulfilled this
week, where we would start with a strong border security bill, build that out
based on the tremendous work under Arlen Specter's -- Senator Specter's
tremendous leadership -- build that out with a more comprehensive bill looking
at work site enforcement, interior enforcement and a temporary worker program
that does address the 12 million people who in this country are undocumented.

The good news is that because of the hard work of the people who are with me,
we've had a huge breakthrough which will allow us to pivot in the next several
hours that will lead us to the conclusion of passing a very important bill.

I'm going to turn it to my colleagues, I guess initially Senator Specter and
then -- I'll turn to Senator Specter and then Senator Kennedy to reflect what
this alternative that has come forward is all about and the implications for the
country, but also for the 250 million, 300 million people who will be affected
both now and people in the future.

SPECTER: The leader...

FRIST: Anybody else?

SPECTER: Well, I don't know who'd have to say anything more if Senator Reid is
here.

(LAUGHTER)

Senator Frist has accurately characterized the situation as a breakthrough. And
the presence of the senators who are here today, both Republicans and Democrats,
and the leaders and the ranking member of Judiciary, we have worked through a
great many problems, starting with McCain-Kennedy and Kyl-Cornyn and the Hagel
legislation and I think we produced a good bill, but not a perfect bill.

SPECTER: Regrettably, we haven't been able to have amendments offered to it, so
we needed some modifications, and the ideas have come forward from Senator Hagel
and Senator Martinez making distinctions between the undocumented aliens who
have been here more than five years and those less than five years. And while it
admittedly is not perfect, the choice we have to make is whether the bill is
better than no bill. And I think that is decisive.

We've made enormous improvements over what the House has done with our treatment
of a comprehensive bill and the aid given for humanitarian assistance and not
making so many felonies and moving toward balance.

So I think we're on track to get a bill in relatively short order.

REID: We're gathered here on the third floor of the Capitol with all you folks
here, but you know the real people that are watching this are people in Las
Vegas who, as I speak, it's 8:30 in the morning. They're getting ready for the
first round, the 21st floor of the MGM Hotel to make the beds, to pick up the
mess from last night. They're working in the kitchens in Las Vegas, cleaning the
grease pits, they're parking cars.

These are jobs that they have wanted and wanted them badly enough to come to
America, to leave their families, their homes, their churches, their schools to
come here and take a chance on the American dream.

So even though we all feel good about today, it pales in comparison to the
millions and millions of people out there who today feel that they have a chance
to participant in the American dream.

Now, we're not there yet. We can't declare victory. But we've moved a long ways
down the road. The movement has taken place by inches. But as with everything,
it's the last few inches that count.

And we're almost there. We're not there. We still have some obstacles. The
leader and I have spoken about them the last few hours. There's other pieces of
legislation that may interfere. We have some amendments we have to vote on that
are going to be hurtful to some people and not to others.

REID: But it wouldn't be fair if I didn't acknowledge what I believe are some
legislative heroes with this.

First of all is Specter and Leahy. That Judiciary Committee is producing, is
producing as it hasn't produced in years and years, and basically it's because
of their relationship.

And I also want everyone to know here that the work that's taken place behind
the scenes for the last week has been what legislation's all about. These people
in the back rooms doing the drudge work, they don't get the attention that
Senator Frist and I get when we're out there, as I've said, like a couple of
running big horn sheep batting our heads, but they're the ones that allow us
once in a while to raise our arms and declare victory.

We're not there yet, as I've said. But hopefully -- hopefully -- the next 24
hours there will be occasion for real celebration.

LEAHY: I'll be brief.

One, leader, I thank you for the comments about Senator Specter and myself. We
do have a close personal relationship. We have tried to move a lot of
significant legislation. I told both leaders (inaudible) could we have something
on the floor of the Senate that didn't have to go through Judiciary? Make me
long for my days in Agriculture. Not that much, but you do.

We worked extraordinarily hard to get a bipartisan bill out of the committee.
That was no easy task. It meant hours. It took time during recess, time at late
night sessions and all. Senator Specter held us together in that. We were able
to do it.

Obviously that's the bill I would have preferred. We're not going to have that
bill. I think the steps we've taken now indicate the same things that we did
during the committee markup. We find ways of moving forward. It's a small step,
but a very, very important step. The devil's always in the details, and we'll
see what the details are.

LEAHY: But for people like myself, who are only one generation away from
immigrant grandparents, I feel the yearnings of my grandparents and those who
came first to Vermont, just as many feel the yearnings of their own families
throughout the country.

Let me conclude with this. If this is the step forward that I think it is, then
let's make it that. Let's stop the name-calling. Let's stop the polemics, and
especially those who are outside the Senate, who have been making everything
from ethnic slurs to racial slurs and on. Let us as senators make it very clear,
whatever party we're in we oppose that kind of name-calling. We're working
together as senators to get a bill for America and for people who yearn to be
Americans.

Thank you.

KENNEDY: Well, Americans have always had an ambivalence about immigration issues
and immigration policy. We are a nation of immigrants. And when we're really at
our best, we recognize the extraordinary contribution that immigrants have added
to our culture, to our enterprise, to our initiatives, to our ideas. It has been
profound.

But at other times, we have seen the incredible exploitation of immigrants. We
think of the darker days, of the time of the braceros, which is one of the
darker sides of American history. We think of what has happened -- the
exploitations of many Asian during the coolee period, when they were building
the -- coolees from the Far East were building the railroads of this country.
Some of the cruelest kind of exploitation.

And the most dramatic aspect of American history, of course, were slaves that
were brought into this country, not by their own desire, but for exploitation
and the darker side of our history.

So there is enormous conflict and great emotions whenever we come to the issue
in question, of dealing with how we're going to deal with challenges dealing
with immigration.

And that is why Senator McCain and myself, the others that are gathered here,
recognized that what was necessary is to do a comprehensive kind of approach,
which hopefully this legislation, when it's finalized, hopefully by the end of
the week -- and I think our leader, Senator Reid, has outlined both the
opportunities and the challenges that still remain -- will send a very clear
message to a very important group of individuals that are here -- and that is
that if you work hard; you're devoted to your family; you play by the rules; you
pay your taxes; and you work toward the American dream, that you can be
included, too, as our grandparents and great grandparents have in the past.

Americans admire those qualities, those qualities of hard work, playing by the
rules, devoted to your children, and devoted to the community. Those people that
are out there today, the 11 million, we're sending a message, that is, you are
going to be welcome. And you won't have to live in the fear in the future.

MCCAIN: Obviously, I'd like to thank our leaders who are responsible for the
shepherding of this legislation through. I'd especially like to note the work
that Senator Kennedy has done on this issue. It's been a privilege to work with
him.

And we've had an honest and intense series of negotiations, with the assistance,
particularly, of the individuals who are right here, and I want to thank every
one of them.

I especially think that the Senate is enriched by the presence of Senators
Martinez and Salazar, both of whom bring to us a perspective that's very
important on this issue.

MCCAIN: Like to thank my friend Chuck Hagel. He, along with Senator Martinez,
came up with a compromise that I think has moved this issue off the dime.

I'd like to point out we still have obstacles ahead. One is the conference.
Another, of course, are pending amendments that would have the effect of
basically gutting this compromise.

And so we do have a lot of work ahead of us. But I think that this comprehensive
approach, when most Americans are made aware of what we have done here so far
and what I believe -- I am very optimistic that we can accomplish -- will meet
the approval of the majority of our citizens.

That's what the Senate is supposed to do. This is how the Senate is supposed to
act. And, unfortunately, we don't do nearly as much as we used to.

We've been in conversations with the White House and the president. The
president will make an announcement at 12:30 that is supportive of this
compromise, and he will be on camera later on in the day as he is traveling.

I'm very grateful for the participation of the president of the United States,
who has sought a comprehensive solution to this issue.

And, again, I want to thank my colleagues, recognizing that we have obstacles
ahead, but I think this kind of compromise has the kind of momentum that will
see us through.

HAGEL: Well, let me just add that I am privileged to have had an opportunity to
participate in framing a piece of legislation that I think is in the best
interest of this country and allowing me an opportunity to work with some of
America's distinguished leaders.

Thank you very much.

MARTINEZ: I've had an unusual opportunity to work on something that obviously
touched my life very deeply and very profoundly, which is my own voyage as an
American.

Not having been born in this country, but then moving on to citizenship, I
understand the plight of immigrants. I understand what this has been about. I
also understand about the rule of law, and I respect that.

I want to just thank all of those who have worked on this issue for many years,
long before I got here. And I'm delighted that I've been able to add a
contribution, working with Senator Hagel and others, to ensure that this moves
forward toward a conclusion.

I'm just immensely pleased for the potential outcome that we can have here and
how much good it's going to do, not just for a lot of people who desperately
want to see this happen, but also for the good of this country, the good of
bringing this country together, of pulling us all together, allowing all
Americans and all who want to be Americans to join in the American dream.

OBAMA: A couple people I just want to congratulate. I think Ted and John McCain
set up the framework in which this bill could move forward. And they're the
first people to be congratulated.

The second thing I want to congratulate the Judiciary Committee and Arlen
Specter for the outstanding work he did. And then, since the Judiciary meeting,
there has been a series of meetings, coordinated by John and Ted, specifically I
want to cite Lindsey Graham, Sam Brownback, Mel Martinez, Ken Salazar, myself,
Dick Durbin, Joe Lieberman, who have had to wake up early -- anybody I'm missing
-- who've actually had to wake up early to try to hammer this stuff out. And
then Chuck Hagel and Mel Martinez coming together with the final framework.

The only point I would make -- and I speak for myself, but I think this also is
something that is of concern to the Democratic caucus. If the compromise that's
been discussed and has the agreement of those who were in this room, if that
ends up being the bill that is signed into law, it's a win-win for everybody.
And I think both Democrats and Republicans will be proud.

There is concern within our caucus that if there are a series of amendments that
are offered to gut the bill or if you go into conference committee, it gets
hijacked and comes back in a much weaker version, that it would not represent a
success, it would not represent the values of the American people. It wouldn't
represent the right balance between security and making sure that we're bringing
people out of the shadows and giving them a pathway to citizenship.

So I just caution that we're trying to figure out some mechanism by which we can
have an assurance that the bill that we've agreed to is actually the bill that
gets voted on and is the bill that the president signs. Trying to sort that
through is, I think, what we're going to be working on over the next several
days.

DOMENICI: I just want to say that it's been a real privilege to work on this. I
think some of you know that I had a real-life experience with reference to
living in a family with an illegal alien who was my mother. It turned out that
was unknown to all of us, because we didn't know that she was an illegal alien.
But we lived through many years of her life, and then she was arrested in the
Second World War as an illegal alien of Italian descent.

DOMENICI: So I understand how all of this works in terms of a family and family
roots, and what I see in this bill is an opportunity to offer to those illegal
aliens in our country something that they can say is good enough for them to
come out from their hiding places and say, "We're going to trust America and
once again see if America will let us seek our dream."

If this is not a good enough offer to get them to put up their hands and say
yes, then we have failed. But I think it is. I think they are going to look at
it and say, "America has offered us something worthwhile," and they're going to
join. That's what's important, I think.

GRAHAM: We still have broken borders, ladies and gentlemen. The broken borders
need to be fixed. But we no longer have a broken Senate.

And I think what's happened here, Senator Frist deserves much, much credit for
taking what I think has been the hardest political issue I've dealt with and
getting it to this point, along with everybody working with him.

Chairman Specter has delivered yet again. And this whole process to me has been
unbelievable.

And how would you characterize this? I think we've reached a plea bargain with
11 million illegal aliens. I think we've got what is akin to a plea bargain that
understands it's a nonviolent offense and you got a probationary sentence that's
tough but fair.

And for those out there who want people to pay a price for breaking the law, you
pay a price. For those out there who want 11 million people to come out of the
shadows and earn their right to be part of the American family, you have also
been satisfied.

So this is a plea bargain that I think recognizes what kind of offense we're
talking about. And if we can follow the probationary terms, the 11 million, it
will be a win-win for America.

LIEBERMAN: Before this moment, the most satisfying moment of my recent life as a
United States senator was the so-called gang of 14.

Today, I think we have a gang of about 65. And that makes me feel a lot better
about the prospects of what's going to happen.

LIEBERMAN: We have come together to do the right thing. The compromise that we
have effectively agreed upon will transform the life of our country and millions
of people who live in it. It will improve our nation's security and economy, and
it will give millions of people who live here today the opportunity to be what
they have dreamed of being and want to be, which is Americans.

And the great thing is that it obviously happened across party lines. It started
with McCain and Kennedy. It was picked up and expanded by Specter and Leahy. The
rest of us are privileged to be part of this extraordinary moment. Thank you.

BROWNBACK: Last and least, two quick things. One is, this is probably the most
divisive issue in America today, and I hope this compromise ends up bringing us
together, and I believe it can.

Number two, those that would refer to this, what we do with the 11 million, as
amnesty, I would call it probation.

It has a much more analogous view to probation. You're granted a probationary
status, provided that you do a whole series of things: pay your back taxes; pay
a fine; get a job; demonstrate English. There's a series of things that you must
do. And that's akin to probations.

I think that's appropriate for those who have violated the law and have a
penalty to pay, and we put it here for them.

I congratulate all of those involved.

MARTINEZ: Mr. Chairman, now that everyone has had a chance to hear this in
English, I think an awful lot of Americans that only speak Spanish would like to
here what we're talking about. So I've been asked by the (inaudible) Tele Mundo
and others to say a couple of words in Spanish. So I'm going to just pretty much
repeat what I said.

MARTINEZ: (SPEAKING IN SPANISH)

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)

MCCAIN: Every immigration expert that I know of say this is a workable solution.
And any solution is difficult to implement, but they certainly prefer it to 11
million people washing around America who are here illegally and no resolution
of their status and broken borders.

So, sure, there's some complexities associated with it, but as compared with the
status quo it's Nirvana.

QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)

MCCAIN: We're going to work through amendments. The two leaders are working
right now. So it probably is better if you discuss it with them. But it's
basically try to narrow down the amendments, have votes, and move forward with
final passage. And it's going to be difficult, but the two leaders -- my
understanding, and you'll have to talk to them -- are working together on
getting that done.

QUESTION: What amendments concern you the most?

MCCAIN: They all concern me.

QUESTION: The Democrats are wanting some sort of guarantee that when it goes to
conference it won't change. Is there any way to offer that guarantee?

MCCAIN: Well, there's a group of us that may sign a letter -- we're working on a
letter that would guarantee that we would vote against a conference that --
Republicans (inaudible) that would guarantee that we would vote against a
conference report that destroyed this very delicately crafted compromise.

QUESTION: Senator, can you walk us through what exactly it means that there
would be people who have been here for two years, more than two years, less than
five years (OFF-MIKE)?

MCCAIN: I'll let Ted describe it to you, but it's exactly as you describe.

QUESTION: And what exactly are they applying for?

KENNEDY: Well, we have under the McCain proposal, and also out of the Specter
proposal, we established a line, a dateline at the time of the -- which is
effectively two years (inaudible) assuming that this is.

So this provision applies to individuals that would have been here for the next
three years, OK, the next three years. So it's the last five years. But two
years wouldn't be covered (inaudible), so it's basically three years.

You're working for a landscaper in Sarasota, Florida, and over a three-year
period you go back on home to Mexico for your Christmas time, you'll have a
card, so you'll be able to go back and get back into the United States, is a
major factor.

KENNEDY: And you go back to your landscaping in Sarasota. But the real
difference in terms of how these people, individuals, are treated, and those
that are here more than five years, is the availability of the green cards,
which are under another provision of the act, which has been increased to
425,000, with the priorities going to these individuals.

And the best judgment now is that that would probably extend, for these
individuals, unlike those individuals here five years or longer, probably
extends their opportunity for earned citizenship, probably two to three years,
possibly four, maybe less. Maybe less.

But that is primarily the distinction between how you're treating the two
groups.

When the amendment was initially introduced, it was basically when these
individuals came on out, they would have had to apply under the green cards, and
they would not have been able to earn their citizenship for 25 or 30 years,
which undermined for many of us the basic concept of the program, and therefore
there would be less interest for them coming out, and therefore they probably
wouldn't have come out. And you're distinguishing and treating a group
differently.

So I think that's very important.

The other important aspect is this is just limited to the heads of households,
so our best estimate is probably 3 million people, but this is just the head of
the household. It relates to others, the juniors, the younger members of the
families or other members of the families -- well, whoever's the head of the
household is the one that comes back and also makes the -- can fill in the
requirements for the other members of the family.

And that's all been -- that was acceptable, as well as the expanding -- they
wanted to make sure there was going to be a distinction -- and that was the
basically compromise -- many of us didn't want to have this wide kind of
distinction. We think that the two years to three years is certainly -- I would
certainly urge the support for it, given all the other provisions of the
legislation.

Let me just say, I think it's been mentioned here by Senator Obama. I think the
conference is enormously important. I think we have come too far with the
legislation, Senator Specter and others. That was a 12-6 vote. I don't know what
the shape of the conference will be. That will be decided by the leadership. I'd
hope it would be the whole Judiciary Committee.

KENNEDY: But we had a very strong bipartisan participation. These are
individuals who know this issue, and they are taking it very seriously.

And I think with the kinds of assurances that Senator McCain just talked about
in terms of maintaining the basic integrity of this proposal in a comprehensive
form and in the shape we have, I think the prospects of getting something very
important in terms of finally signed into law.

MCCAIN: We've got to go. We've got to go.

FRIST: Thank you. Thank you very much.

END

<i>Source: CQ Transcriptions© 2006, Congressional Quarterly Inc., All Rights
Reserved

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2006 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 27, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Calif. Rep. Edward R. Roybal, 89, Dies

BYLINE: Joe Holley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 798 words


Edward R. Roybal, 89, a former congressman who represented California's 25th
District for more than three decades and who was a charter member of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, died Oct. 24 at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena,
Calif.

A spokesman for his daughter, Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), said that
he died of respiratory failure complicated by pneumonia.

Mr. Roybal's district included the gleaming towers of downtown Los Angeles as
well as ethnic neighborhoods including East Los Angeles, Boyle Heights and
Little Tokyo, neighborhoods that were traditionally points of arrival for
immigrants. Elected to the House in 1962, he was the first Hispanic from
California to serve in Congress since 1879; his district, the 25th, was the most
heavily Hispanic in the state, and he was among the founders of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus in 1976.

His interests reflected the concerns of his district. In 1982, for example, he
opposed a comprehensive immigration reform bill that would have sanctioned U.S.
employees who hired undocumented immigrants. He argued that sanctions were
tantamount to a penalty against hardworking, taxpaying Hispanics, and he
threatened to offer more than 100 amendments to the bill and demand a recorded
vote on each one. House leaders backed down.

He was an outspoken advocate of bilingual education and in 1967 wrote the first
bill to provide schools with assistance for special bilingual teaching programs.

John P. Bueno, president of the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials, called Mr. Roybal a political trailblazer. "The fact that
today there are more than 6,000 Latinos serving in elected and appointed offices
in all levels of government is a testament to the life's work of this
extraordinary leader," he said in a statement released by the organization.

Edward Ross Roybal was born in Albuquerque to a Spanish family that traced its
roots to the founding of Santa Fe. His parents moved to the Boyle Heights barrio
of Los Angeles in 1922 after his father lost his job during a railroad strike.
After graduating from high school in Los Angeles in the midst of the Depression,
Mr. Roybal joined the Civilian Conservation Corps.

He studied accounting at the University of California at Los Angeles and law at
Southwestern University and worked as a public health educator for the Los
Angeles County Tuberculosis and Health Association. His primary responsibility
was to help reduce epidemic levels of TB among Mexican Americans.

He served in the Army during World War II. In 1945, he returned to Los Angeles
and continued his work with the tuberculosis association until 1949 as director
of health education.

He also founded the Community Services Organization, a grass-roots effort based
on the work of Chicago activist Saul Alinsky, who sought to empower the poor for
radical social action. As president of the group, he battled discrimination
against Mexican Americans in housing, education and employment.

Relying on the support of organized labor and his base of Mexican American and
Jewish community groups, he was elected to the Los Angeles City Council on his
second try, in 1949. He served four terms and then won election to Congress.

In the House, Mr. Roybal was known as a quiet, almost dour man who rarely sought
the spotlight. He served on a number of committees, including Appropriations,
Foreign Affairs and Veterans' Affairs.

In 1978, he and two California colleagues were disciplined by the House for
their involvement in a South Korean vote-buying scheme. He was  accused of lying
to the House Ethics Committee about a $1,000 gift from Korean lobbyist Tongsun
Park. The committee recommended censure, but the penalty was reduced to a
reprimand after Hispanic leaders across the country protested and several of
Roybal's House colleagues came to his defense.

"You can't buy Ed Roybal for money, marbles or chalk," insisted Rep. Phillip
Burton (D-Calif.) The reprimand had little impact in his district.

In the 1980s, he was chairman of the Select Committee on Aging and led a
campaign to restore funding for several programs for the elderly. He also
supported stronger fair-housing laws and voted in favor of establishing the
Department of Education.

Mr. Roybal chose not to run for reelection in 1992. That same year, his daughter
was elected to Congress, where she represents part of her father's old district.

He remained active in local politics and on issues affecting the elderly.

In addition to his daughter Roybal-Allard, of Los Angeles, survivors include his
wife of 64 years, Lucille Beserra Roybal of Pasadena; two other children,
Lillian Roybal-Rose of Santa Cruz and Edward Roybal Jr. of Oakland, Calif.; four
grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              158 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 6, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Banks Hope Money Transfers Attract Hispanics

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 918 words


Mexican immigrants living in the United States have less expensive ways to send
money to relatives in Mexico, using private and government money-transfer
programs aimed at encouraging immigrants to join the U.S. banking system.

Bank of America Corp. last week announced the launch of SafeSend, a free
money-transfer service between the bank's branches in the United States and
several Mexican financial institutions.

The Federal Reserve and the Central Bank of Mexico are promoting a joint program
called Directo a México, under which participating U.S. banks charge low fees to
send money to Mexico by using the central banks as intermediaries.

People sending money to Mexico  pay as much as $15 per transaction  --  known as
a remittance  --  to companies such as First Data Corp.'s Western Union
Financial Services Inc. and MoneyGram International Inc. Those companies handle
most of the estimated $20 billion a year sent between the United States and
Mexico. Banks account for only about 5 percent of that amount.

"The end goal is to get a banking relationship started," said Diane Wagner, a
Bank of America spokeswoman.

The SafeSend service is available free to any Bank of America customer with a
personal checking account. It links the bank's U.S. branches to 4,500 locations
across Mexico, including branches of Grupo Financiero Banorte SA and Santander
Central Hispano SA. When a customer in the United States requests a transfer,
the banks in the two countries exchange dollars for pesos. Depending on the time
of day a transfer is sent, the money is available in Mexico within two hours or
on the next business day.

Hispanics are an attractive target for U.S. banks, analysts said, because a
smaller percentage of Hispanics have bank accounts than among the overall U.S.
population.

The joint initiative between the Federal Reserve and the Central Bank of Mexico
allows customers of participating U.S. banks to send money transfers to private
Mexican banks, with the two central banks acting as go-betweens. The money can
be available within a day in Mexico, where the local banks do not charge
recipients.

Directo a México has been operating for a year, but the Federal Reserve began
marketing it aggressively only last month. Representatives of the Fed and
Mexican consulates have launched a 16-city U.S. promotional tour that includes a
Baltimore stop next month. They are providing banks with posters and educational
materials in Spanish.

The central banks' initiative also is aimed at encouraging more immigrants to
open bank accounts.

"The whole [remittance] system goes from cash to accounts," said Donald F.
Terry, manager of the Inter-American Development Bank's Multilateral Investment
Fund. "This is the most effective way of getting this $20 billion into the
[banking] system."

So far, seven U.S. banks  --  mainly small and mid-size institutions with
branches in 21 states  --  participate in the Fed program. Although those banks
are not bound to keep their fees in any particular range, they charge customers
$2 to $5 per transaction to send money to Mexico. The banks in turn must pay 67
cents to the Federal Reserve and the Central Bank of Mexico for delivering each
payment in Mexico.

Traditional money-transfer companies charge high U.S.-Mexico remittance fees in
part because they must hire agents in Mexico to distribute the money.
Nevertheless, the companies earned big profits as the remittance business grew
over the years.

Banks may have a hard time competing with money-transfer companies for the
remittance business, despite their new low-price or even free transactions.
Undocumented immigrants in the United States often fear that banks will inquire
into their immigration status, experts say. Such fears persist even though U.S.
law allows banks to accept taxpayer identification numbers and identification
cards issued by the Mexican consulate  --  both of which can be acquired by
undocumented immigrants.

Some immigrants fear banks because they remember bank failures and financial
crises in their home countries, or because some U.S. financial institutions do
not have Spanish-speaking personnel, said Manuel Orozco, a remittance expert at
Georgetown University.

In some cases, banks  are hesitant to transfer money for undocumented
immigrants. For example, last year, the American Bankers Association expressed
concern about new regulations that increased banks' "know your customer"
responsibilities, and some banks said they should not even open accounts for
immigrants living in the United States without proper documents.

"There is a lot of uncertainty in the industry about which is the right
direction to go and that uncertainty is in part due to lack of information,"
said Elizabeth McQuerry, assistant vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta, which leads the Directo a México program.

Mexico benefits from the program because it could bring more of its citizens
into its banking system, said Alberto Mendoza, head officer for retail payments
at the Central Bank of Mexico. Only about one-third of Mexicans have bank
accounts, but remittance recipients are more likely to have accounts than those
who do not receive money from relatives living abroad, Orozco said.

The Directo a México program is part of the U.S.-Mexico Partnership for
Prosperity launched three years ago by President Bush and Mexican President
Vicente Fox. The Federal Reserve has no plan for such a program in other Latin
American countries soon.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              159 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 6, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Customs Pick Faces a New Hurdle on Hill

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 248 words


Julie L. Myers, nominated to be assistant secretary of homeland security in
charge of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, is scheduled for a
confirmation vote Friday before the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee.

On Tuesday, however, four Judiciary Committee members asked Majority Leader Bill
Frist (R-Tenn.) for shared jurisdiction, adding a new hurdle for Myers.

They noted that ICE is the largest investigative arm of the Department of
Homeland Security and promised to "expeditiously consider" Myers's nomination.

A spokesman for Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), chairman of Judiciary's immigration
subcommittee, called the request for a hearing a jurisdictional matter. But
another aide said doubt over Myers's qualifications "is something that's on
[senators'] radar," in the wake of the ouster of Federal Emergency Management
Agency Director Michael D. Brown.

At a Sept. 25 hearing, several senators questioned Myers, 36, about her
management background, and Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-Ohio) told her that her
résumé indicated she was not qualified. Voinovich has since offered his support,
however.

Myers was chief of staff to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff when
Chertoff headed the Justice Department's Criminal Division. Her uncle is Air
Force Gen. Richard B. Myers, who last week stepped down as chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. She married Chertoff's current chief of staff, John F. Wood,
last month.

--  Spencer S. Hsu

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              160 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Suspected Spy Traveled to Philippines

BYLINE: Alan Sipress and Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A18

LENGTH: 933 words

DATELINE: MANILA Oct. 7


The retired U.S. Marine at the center of an espionage investigation at the FBI
and White House traveled to the Philippines numerous times during the period in
which he allegedly passed sensitive U.S. documents to opposition leaders here,
official records show.

Leandro Aragoncillo, a naturalized U.S. citizen charged with stealing more than
100 documents from the FBI, visited his home country 15 times from 2000 to 2005,
usually staying about two weeks or less, Philippine Bureau of Immigration
records show.

In addition, Philippine and U.S. authorities say that a former national police
official also charged in the case, Michael Ray Aquino, had a valid Philippine
passport and U.S. tourist visa when he entered the United States in July 2001
--  despite being charged by Filipino authorities in  cases involving
allegations of murder, kidnapping and drug trafficking.

U.S. immigration and law enforcement officials said Friday that the Philippines
never issued an extradition request or placed Aquino on a watch list, which
could have prevented his entry into the country. The U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency eventually opened a criminal investigation  after
Aquino  applied for legal residency  last year, officials said.

U.S. authorities declined Friday to say why they were unaware of Aragoncillo and
Aquino's alleged spying until Aragoncillo drew their attention by attempting to
intervene after Aquino was arrested for overstaying his visa. The subsequent
investigation has raised the possibility that Aragoncillo pilfered classified
documents while working as a security official in  Vice President Cheney's
office and has shaken the Philippine political establishment.

Aragoncillo and Aquino are charged in  the theft of more than 100 documents,
including several dozen marked top secret, during Aragoncillo's stint as an FBI
intelligence analyst at Fort Monmouth, N.J.,  earlier this year.

In Washington on Friday, FBI counterespionage agents continued to examine
computer files, hard-drives and other items and interview staffers at Cheney's
office  to try to assess the damage, sources said. Aragoncillo is cooperating
with authorities and, according to an ABC News report, has admitted to taking
files while working under Cheney from 2001 to early 2002.

Former Philippine president Joseph Estrada and Sen.  Panfilo "Ping" Lacson have
admitted in interviews with The Washington Post and other  news organizations
that they received U.S. documents from Aragoncillo, but both have  played down
the information as gossip or routine political analysis. A U.S. law enforcement
official confirmed Friday that Estrada is one of three current or former
Philippine officials referred to anonymously in federal court documents filed in
New Jersey.

Justice Secretary Raul Gonzalez said Friday that Estrada and Lacson also may
have financed Aragoncillo and Aquino's activities. If that is proven, Gonzalez
said, they could be charged in the Philippines for sedition.

"There are persistent reports that Leandro Aragoncillo has been paid by some
popular personalities here in this country," said Ricardo Diaz, chief of the
Interpol division of the National Bureau of Investigation. "We would like to
investigate whether there are bases or evidence to prove these reports."

Diaz said Philippine investigators so far have no independent information about
whether money was exchanged, adding that they will rely in part on details
provided by U.S. authorities.

U.S. officials have confirmed that Aragoncillo was paid for information but have
yet to disclose how large a sum he received. The criminal complaint filed
against Aragoncillo in Newark last month depicts him as enthusiastically
participating in the alleged spy plot, motivated, at least partly, by a personal
interest in promoting political change in the Philippines.

Aragoncillo, a 21-year veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, worked under both
Cheney and Al Gore as an administrative chief in the security detail from July
1999 to February 2002, according to the Pentagon. Two law enforcement officials
said Friday that the focus of the  investigation is on Aragoncillo's time under
Cheney.

An FBI official said Aragoncillo underwent a polygraph examination  to take the
job at the bureau, as required under reforms passed  after the Robert Hanssen
spy scandal.

The official said the hiring process was handled routinely, but said that
Aragoncillo's service at the White House certainly would have helped him get the
job. "The fact that you already had the clearance and that you worked [at the
White House] and are a Marine  --  those are all good bona fides," the official
said.

Officials with the Philippine consulate in New York said that Aquino's passport
was canceled in August 2001, after he had entered the United States. A new
passport was issued for Aquino in September 2004, officials said.

In October 2004, Aquino applied for a green card, which would give him legal
residence in the United States, an ICE spokesman said.  Aquino was denied
because of his connection with possible criminal charges in the Philippines and,
in March 2005, he was arrested for overstaying his visa.

That arrest eventually led to the unraveling of the alleged espionage effort.
Aragoncillo, identifying himself as an FBI employee, called immigration
authorities to ask about Aquino's case. The FBI was notified and launched an
audit that revealed that Aragoncillo allegedly had gained unauthorized access to
documents involving the Philippines, according to the criminal complaint.

Eggen reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              161 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Panel Approves Immigration Nominee

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 168 words


Julie Myers, President Bush's choice to head the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency, was endorsed by a Senate committee yesterday over the
objections of Democrats who said she lacks sufficient experience.

The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee approved her
nomination  9 to 6, in a strictly partisan vote.

Democrats said Myers has no experience leading an organization as large as the
Department of Homeland Security's immigration agency, which has a $4 billion
annual budget and more than 15,000 employees.

Democrats have focused attention on the qualifications of administration
nominees  since the Sept. 12 resignation of Federal Emergency Management Agency
Director Michael D. Brown.

Republicans said Myers has the confidence of Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff and has convinced committee members that she will be able to handle the
job.

Myers, 36, was Chertoff's chief of staff when he was assistant attorney general
at the Justice Department.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              162 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Washing Their Hands Of the Last Frontier;
In the Kitchens of Many Immigrants, Dishwasher Is a Permanent Turnoff

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1275 words


A couple of months ago, in the privacy of his Reston townhouse, Alan Chien made
a final break from cultural tradition, a guilt-filled decision he has yet to
share with his parents.

He used his dishwasher. He knows his parents will not understand.

"They don't believe in it," said Chien, 35, an engineer who emigrated with his
family from Taiwan when he was a toddler. "Just because they never used it, I
never used it, so it was just a mysterious thing to me."

In many immigrant homes, the automatic dishwasher is the last frontier. Long
after new arrivals pick up football, learn the intricacies of the multiplex and
the DMV and develop a taste for pizza, they resist the dishwasher. Some joke
that not using the appliance is one of the truest signs of immigrant heritage,
whether they hail from Africa, Latin America, Asia or Eastern Europe.

If they have a dishwasher  --  and many do, because it is standard equipment in
most homes  --  it becomes a glorified dish rack, a Tupperware storage cabinet
or a snack-food bin. It's never turned on.

Officials at appliance companies have noticed: Sears doesn't even highlight the
appliances in its ads in Spanish-language media.

It's a quirk in the assimilation process that baffles social scientists. "It's
really striking," said Donna Gabaccia, who studies immigration and culinary
history at the University of Minnesota. In the home, "technology is generally
embraced by women. Certainly in terms of technology, their homes don't look that
much different from Middle American homes."

Gabaccia said one explanation could be that immigrants can absorb only so much
change. The dishwasher is a U.S. invention that is rare in most countries, even
among the upper-middle class.

Chien, too, has a hard time explaining dishwasher guilt. Chien, whose younger
sister goaded him into breaking his "mental block" on the matter, marvels over
how the appliance scrubs off caked-on food. But he isn't sure whether he will
keep using it.

"I still have the sense that it's kind of a waste of electricity," he said.
"It's odd. We buy American clothes; we use the oven; we use the stove; but,
somehow, that appliance. . . ."

Graciela Andres laments that her daughter, son-in-law and three grandchildren
have abandoned washing by hand. "They do it the American way  --  they put
everything in the wash machine, no matter if it's a little spoon," said Andres,
who emigrated from Bolivia in 1981.

She does not disdain her family's washer and dryer, microwave, heavy-duty mixer,
DVD player or computers. But the dishwasher?

"I think if I wash by my hands, I do a better job," said Andres, 65, of
Germantown. "We have to fill up the dishwasher. If you do it by hand, it gets
clean right away."

Her daughter, Grace Rivera-Oven, says she cannot afford not to use it. Her
five-cycle, stainless-steel Kenmore allows her to spend more time shuttling her
children to baseball and soccer, serving on community boards and freelance
writing.

As a teenager, she got a friend to teach her how to operate the dishwasher  --
"She was white; I figured she knew how." Before her mother got home from work,
she would run a load.

These days, she can use the dishwasher anytime she wants. Even so, she feels as
if she's missing something. That's why every Saturday morning, she does the
breakfast dishes by hand with her 10-year-old daughter, Amalia.

"We just gossip, gossip," said Rivera-Oven, 35. "I just wash them, and she
dries. It just reminds me of when I was her age. I did them with my mother. Oh,
I loved the drying."

Her mother chimes in, stirred by the memory. "Oh, yes, I remember when she would
dry and I would check," Andres said, pretending to rub a glass between her
fingers. "Squeak, squeak, squeak."

Kitchen historians speculate that the dishwasher lies at the heart of what it
means to be a family. Dishwashers began appearing in many middle-class American
households in the late 1960s and 1970s, about the time that many women began
entering the workforce. A decade later, the microwave came along. The family
dinner hour disappeared. It's been downhill from there.

"When people ate dinner together, they also cleaned up together," said Vicki
Matranga, a kitchen historian and designer for the Illinois-based International
Housewares Association. "Americans now want convenience. The kitchen is a
showplace where you heat up your food in the microwave."

Outside the United States, Canada and Western Europe, dishwashers are uncommon.
In most countries, people cannot afford them; if they could, then they already
have maids, who can do the dishes by hand.

A 2004 economics report from the government of India noted that a growing middle
class had pushed up sales of clothes washers, refrigerators and small appliances
by 20 percent a year. Dishwashers, however, were a "negligible market."

In tech-crazed South Korea, many families boast refrigerators with built-in TV
screens and a cooler that regulates the temperature especially for jars of
kimchi, the spicy pickled cabbage  --  but no dishwasher.

At Sears, officials do not make much of an effort to market dishwashers to
immigrants. The company's Kenmore Elite TurboZone was touted in mainstream
media, but Spanish-language newspapers and magazines ran only general ads about
appliances.

Anecdotal evidence from Sears associates and customers suggests that Latinos
care far more about cooktops than dishwashers, said Tina Settecase, vice
president of home appliances.

"We're very careful about not changing our Hispanic customers," she said. "We're
just trying to identify what the Hispanic customer wants and supply it."

But Mike McDermott, general manager of merchandising at General Electric,
wonders whether more information about dishwashers might make a difference.

Like other appliance-makers, GE extols the dishwashers' energy efficiency. The
U.S. Department of Energy agrees, citing findings that dishwashers, with a full
load, use half as much water as washing by hand. Statistics from the D.C.-based
Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers show that using the dishwasher six
times a week costs $49 a year, a little more than the refrigerator.

"Where there isn't a dishwasher in a home, we need to understand why it's not
there," McDermott said, "and what are some of the tools we can use to educate
the consumer."

He will not have any luck with Douglas Lee's family. His American roots stretch
back to 1963, when his grandparents emigrated from China. In three generations,
nobody has used as dishwasher.

Lee, 22, of Springfield said he does not understand the appeal.

"Do you have to wash it beforehand to rinse it off? And if you wash it
beforehand, why do you even need to use it?" asked Lee, a program manager for
the Washington-based Organization of Chinese Americans. "I see a lot of my white
friends doing it. I'm like: Oh, well, whatever. I guess I can't judge them on
how they clean their dishes."

Bernie Fischer, a self-described "typical white guy" who grew up in Baltimore,
knows all the benefits of the dishwasher. His parents had been so attached to
theirs that they used it even though the wash cycle caused the lights to dim in
their aging house.

But these days, his dishwasher is simply a drying rack. It was his wife's idea.
Mary Ngo is a Vietnamese American.

"Mary's kind of set in her ways," said Fischer, 29, a soft-spoken Columbia
psychiatrist.

"I just don't see the practicality of using the dishwasher," explained Ngo, 28,
a job trainer born and raised in Montgomery County.

But she does let her husband turn on the appliance every two weeks  --  to clean
it, not the dishes.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              163 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 13, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Laborer Center Is Still On Hold;
Gaithersburg Plans Panel

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 611 words


A week after plans for a day-laborer center in Gaithersburg stalled, Montgomery
County officials said they are still committed to financing such a facility but
are waiting for city officials to make the next move.

City leaders, though, declined to say yesterday whether they intend to proceed
with the project. Instead, Gaithersburg Mayor Sidney A. Katz said he will ask
the City Council on Monday to set up a committee to resolve the matter.

"We're taking it one step at a time," Katz said. "I think we are committed to
solving a concern, and I think we need to let that committee decide how to solve
that concern."

His remarks came a day after a community meeting that drew more than 80 people
and brought out some of the anti-immigrant sentiment that characterized this
summer's debate over a similar proposal in Herndon.

"You may be nice people, you may be hard-working people, but frankly, there are
tens of millions of people trying to get into the United States," said Brad
Botwin, a Derwood resident who was handing out fliers Tuesday night for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national group that opposes
illegal immigration. "Why are we spending tax dollars to help people who have
cut in line?"

Such comments, fueled by talk radio and anti-immigration groups, threatened to
derail the Herndon proposal and could affect the Montgomery project.

"Herndon, I have no doubt, will make some people gun-shy," said County Council
member Michael Knapp (D-Upcounty).

Gaithersburg and county officials decided over the summer to run the county's
third day-laborer center  --  a place where people could seek work and learn
English  --  out of a building on North Frederick Avenue off Route 355. Dozens
of day laborers, many of them undocumented, had been gathering each morning a
few blocks away at a parking lot next to Grace United Methodist Church. The
county signed the lease, and the city agreed to renovate the building.

But the county scuttled those plans last week when the city appeared to retreat
from its commitment amid neighborhood opposition and the need for more extensive
renovations than anticipated.

Yesterday, Montgomery's chief administrative officer, Bruce Romer, said city
officials have not responded to a letter he sent Friday notifying them of the
decision.

"The logical next step is for us to hear in some official way from the city of
Gaithersburg how they would like to proceed, or if they want to proceed, and
we'll act accordingly," Romer said. "We'd like to hear from the city."

County Council President Tom Perez (D-Silver Spring) said he believes that those
who oppose the center for ideological reasons are mostly outsiders. The county
recently opened a day-laborer center in Wheaton without community opposition,
and has run one in Silver Spring for a decade.

"I think Gaithersburg is fundamentally a progressive community just like the
rest of the county," Perez said. "I'm confident in the end the question will be
where to locate it, not whether to locate it."

Many of the city's residents who opposed placing the center on North Frederick
Avenue said they did not object to the concept but preferred to put the facility
in a commercial area rather than a residential neighborhood. They also argued
that the city had not included them in the decision-making process.

Discussions began about a year ago, when a committee comprising city, church and
other community leaders was formed. Although the meetings were open to the
public, Katz now acknowledges that they were not adequately publicized. "I can
sincerely say I did not intend to make such an error, but I did," Katz told the
audience.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              164 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 13, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New Day-Laborer Site Hung Up in Montgomery;
Decision Is Up to Gaithersburg, County Says

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B07

LENGTH: 690 words


A week after plans for a day-laborer center in Gaithersburg stalled, Montgomery
County officials said they are still committed to financing such a facility but
are waiting for city officials to make the next move.

City leaders, though, declined to say yesterday whether they intend to proceed
with the project. Instead, Gaithersburg Mayor Sidney A. Katz said he will ask
the City Council on Monday to set up a committee to resolve the matter.

"We're taking it one step at a time," Katz said. "I think we are committed to
solving a concern, and I think we need to let that committee decide how to solve
that concern."

His remarks came a day after a community meeting that drew more than 80 people
and brought out some of the anti-immigrant sentiment that characterized this
summer's debate over a similar proposal in Herndon.

"You may be nice people, you may be hard-working people, but frankly, there are
tens of millions of people trying to get into the United States," said Brad
Botwin, a Derwood resident who was handing out fliers Tuesday night for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national group that opposes
illegal immigration. "Why are we spending tax dollars to help people who have
cut in line?"

Such comments, fueled by talk radio and anti-immigration groups, threatened to
derail the Herndon proposal and could affect the Montgomery project.

"Herndon, I have no doubt, will make some people gun-shy," said County Council
member Michael Knapp (D-Upcounty).

Gaithersburg and county officials decided over the summer to run the county's
third day-laborer center  --  a place where people could seek work and learn
English  --  out of a building on North Frederick Avenue off Route 355. Dozens
of day laborers, many of them undocumented, had been gathering each morning a
few blocks away at a parking lot next to Grace United Methodist Church. The
county signed the lease, and the city agreed to renovate the building.

But the county scuttled those plans last week when the city appeared to retreat
from its commitment amid neighborhood opposition and the need for more extensive
renovations than anticipated.

Yesterday, Montgomery's chief administrative officer, Bruce Romer, said city
officials have not responded to a letter he sent Friday notifying them of the
decision.

"The logical next step is for us to hear in some official way from the city of
Gaithersburg how they would like to proceed, or if they want to proceed, and
we'll act accordingly," Romer said. "We'd like to hear from the city."

County Council President Tom Perez (D-Silver Spring) said he believes that those
who oppose the center for ideological reasons are mostly outsiders. The county
recently opened a day-laborer center in Wheaton without community opposition,
and has run one in Silver Spring for a decade.

"I think Gaithersburg is fundamentally a progressive community just like the
rest of the county," Perez said. "I'm confident in the end the question will be
where to locate it, not whether to locate it."

Many of the city's residents who opposed placing the center on North Frederick
Avenue said they did not object to the concept but preferred to put the facility
in a commercial area rather than a residential neighborhood. They also argued
that the city had not included them in the decision-making process.

Discussions began about a year ago, when a committee comprising city, church and
other community leaders was formed. Although the meetings were open to the
public, Katz now acknowledges that they were not adequately publicized. "I can
sincerely say I did not intend to make such an error, but I did," Katz told the
audience.

Katz said yesterday that he did not know how many people would serve on a new
committee or how they would be chosen.

Gustavo Torres, executive director of Casa de Maryland, the Silver Spring-based
immigrant advocacy group that runs the county's other day-laborer centers, said
he was disappointed but eager to move on.

"Now we pretty much need to start from the beginning because the mayor made a
mistake. That's the reality," he said. "But we need to fix this problem."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              165 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 19, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

'Destination America': Walking In the Shoes of Immigrants

BYLINE: David Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 975 words


A Mexican named Manuel cases the fence at the Arizona border in preparation for
an illegal attempt to enter the States. Two Iranian American sisters recall
efforts to go in the other direction, back to their old country on a frustrating
crusade for women's rights. A Hasidic couple expresses happy surprise at being
able to remain unmelted in the melting pot.

These and other characters in "Destination America," a new four-hour documentary
on PBS, remind us that the immigration story is much more complicated,
paradoxical and ultimately stirring than the way it is usually talked about
these days.

WETA, Channel 26, will air "Destination America" in two-hour installments,
tonight and Oct. 26, beginning at 10 p.m.

It debuts at a time when too often the subject is reduced to something like a
toggle switch in one of those hands-on museums: Flick it in one direction and
you get overly sentimental accounts of this great land of immigrants embracing
your tired, your poor, those longing to be free. Flick it the other way and you
are shouted at about the rising tide of undocumented families and the threat
they may or may not pose to the economy and the American identity.

There is truth in those prevailing narratives, but "Destination America" paints
a richer picture. The work takes viewers into the minds of immigrants, past and
present, whose motives fit no easy generalizations. It may come as a surprise to
some Americans that each new unmoored generation harbors ambivalence about
coming to the land of the free: It's not easy to leave your homeland, even if it
is an oppressive, war-torn dictatorship or a famine-wrecked wasteland.

Also adding context to the current immigration debate, "Destination America"
underlines how Americans' attitude toward immigration has shifted back and forth
--  in favor and against  --  depending on the needs of the labor market.

Each of the four parts, by award-winning documentarian David Grubin, is built
around a theme, beginning tonight with "The Golden Door"  --  a historical
overview  --  and "The Art of Departure"  --  about artists coming in search of
freedom of expression. The subsequent parts are "The Earth Is the Lord's"  --
about those seeking religious freedom  --  and "Breaking Free: A Woman's
Journey"  --  about women fleeing domestic violence and political repression.

"The Golden Door" launches the work with a suspenseful subplot. The camera
follows Manuel  --  Grubin withholds his full identity  --  as he prepares to
attempt to sneak back into the United States. We won't spoil the denouement. But
the buildup is illuminating; rarely do we get such a personal glimpse into
illegal immigration.

Manuel, who has a wife and several children, gives a brief tour of his desolate
town, showing the empty houses of families that have made it to golden
destinations like Chicago. He goes alone to America whenever his family runs out
of money  --  more than a dozen times by now  --  and stays for about a year at
a time. His dangerous crossings are so common for the family that there is a
ritual of departure. Manuel checks himself in the mirror to decide which
baseball cap to wear, says his tearful farewells, rides the bus to the border.
He comes across as a reluctant lawbreaker. "Nobody else knows the feelings, how
it feels when you have to leave your family," he says.

The cameras spend time on the other side of the fence with the U.S. Border
Patrol in Douglas, Ariz., filming the capture of one of the 4,000 who cross into
that state alone every day. Those who are caught are sent back via a barred
revolving door  --  an apt metaphor.

Grubin does not condemn Manuel so much as point out what he has in common with
previous waves of immigrants. Early in the last century, Mexicans were recruited
to pick crops and work in factories. Then during the Depression, many were
kicked out. A generation earlier, Chinese immigrants were welcomed, then
rejected.

In the three subsequent segments, Grubin continues encountering characters at
critical moments in their lives. They defy simplistic preconceptions of what it
means to be an immigrant.

Fang-Yi Sheu, a star dancer with the Martha Graham company, left Taiwan  --  a
free country  --  10 years ago because there were more opportunities in the
United States. She still feels homesick and guilty, and we hear from her proud
but heartsick parents back home.

The daughters of Ferdows Naficy, who brought them from Iran in the 1950s so she
could get an education and they could grow up liberated American women, instead
found themselves tugged back. Mahnaz became an Iranian government official
credited with securing rights for women under the shah, and Farah threw her lot
in with the ayatollah's revolution against the shah. Both ultimately had to flee
for their lives  --  back to America.

Of all those who came seeking freedom to worship, the Hasidim were among the
more reluctant. The very liberties that drew so many were a deterrent to these
tightknit traditional Jews: American-style freedom was the path to
intermarriage, liberal values, a cultural "death sentence," they feared. But the
Holocaust left the Hasidim little choice.

"It took years for them to realize they could actually live the way they wanted
to and not feel like outsiders," says the grandson of a Hasidic rebbe.

That meant selective appropriation of American culture while maintaining core
values. So we see Hasidim in Brooklyn with sidelocks and cell phones. There's a
scene of a member of the community playing traditional melodies on an electric
guitar held behind his head, like Jimi Hendrix.

That's America: land of last resort as often as land of opportunity. At least
you're free not to buy the whole dream.

Destination America (two hours) airs tonight at 10 on Channel 26; the second
two-hour installment airs Oct. 26.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              166 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 24, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Injustice for Immigrants

BYLINE: Janet Murguia

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 629 words


Even as the federal government is attempting to learn its lessons and correct
its many tragic mistakes in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, it stubbornly
insists on endangering a segment of those affected by the storm, undermining its
own relief effort and that of private agencies. For some of the storm's victims,
it seems, even our shelters are not a safe harbor.

For the first time in decades, federal officials refused to make the
announcement that they  have always made  after a disaster. Every recent
administration, including this one after the Sept. 11 attacks, has announced for
humanitarian reasons as well as for the success of the government's rescue
operation that immigration authorities will not use the relief effort as an
enforcement opportunity. Indeed, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
was quick to announce that his agency would not engage in enforcement against
employers of immigrants.

But the customary announcement regarding immigrants themselves never came. Even
as  White House officials  were assuring community leaders and the ethnic media
that they wanted all of the storm's victims to seek help, DHS officials were
refusing to provide the necessary assurances that it was safe to come forward,
leaving my organization, the National Council of La Raza, and our allies with a
dilemma: Do we encourage people to seek help knowing that the government might
use it against the very people we are trying to reach? Refusing to give
assurances is one thing, but would the government really spend its enforcement
resources on hurricane victims?

Apparently, the answer is yes.  The Wall Street Journal reported early this
month that  "police and the U.S. Marshals Service swept into a Red Cross shelter
for hurricane refugees [in Long Beach, Miss.]. They blocked the parking lot and
exits and demanded identification from about 60 people who looked Hispanic,
including some pulled out of the shower and bathroom, according to witnesses."

The only people in the shelter subjected to this treatment were Latinos,
including those born in the United States who were there to help; at least one
shelter manager, a former Marine and a Vietnam veteran who happened to be
Hispanic, was also temporarily detained and screened. This follows several
reports of immigrants being placed in deportation proceedings immediately after
being taken to safety by government authorities in Texas and West Virginia.

No matter what you believe about the nation's failed immigration policies and
the presence of undocumented immigrants in the United States, you should be
alarmed that the federal government is willing to breach the promise of safe
harbor offered by its own agencies and those run by private charities. Not only
does it offend every basic humanitarian principle to round up those who have
sought help out of desperation, but it does grave damage to the larger public
health and safety.

The success of disaster preparedness and relief depends on the ability to reach
everyone who is at risk, to urge them to seek shelter, medical care and other
lifesaving services. If there were an outbreak of communicable disease in
Katrina's wake  --  which is not unthinkable under the circumstances  --   the
last thing you want to do is convince a segment of the nation's largest minority
that the government is not a safe source of preventive care and treatment. If,
God forbid, the next crisis involves a biological weapon or an influenza
outbreak, the government has just undermined its ability to keep us all safe.
Lives are  on the line, and not just the lives of the immigrants we too often
find expendable.

The writer  is president and  chief executive of the National Council of La
Raza, the  Latino civil rights and advocacy organization.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              167 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 25, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Arbitrator Cuts Short New Rules for Customs Officers' Facial Hair

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: Metro; B02 , FEDERAL DIARY Stephen Barr

LENGTH: 680 words


I n 2003, the Department of Homeland Security adopted a "one face at the border"
policy that consolidated the jobs of customs, immigration and agriculture
inspectors. A year later, the department decided that the Customs and Border
Protection officers needed a clean shave.

But the union that represents CBP officers objected to the department's decision
to go ahead with a ban on beards before contract negotiations could be finished,
and an arbitrator this month sustained the union's grievance.

M. David Vaughn, the arbitrator who handled the labor-management dispute, said
the department fell short in making its case and has an obligation to bargain
over such issues as beards, mustaches and hair color.

"There was no evidence of myriad complaints that lack of uniformity in attire
and appearance standards was interfering with the accomplishment of the agency's
mission or that the public was not responding properly to the agency's officers
because of differing appearance standards," Vaughn wrote.

The arbitrator said he was willing to order CBP to rescind its new grooming
standards but would wait to allow a related legal proceeding at the Federal
Labor Relations Authority to conclude. A CBP spokeswoman said the department is
reviewing Vaughn's decision.

The dispute over grooming standards is not the first fashion spat at the
department. Until an agreement this summer, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers
Association was at odds with the department over a dress code for  air marshals.
The association contended that the department's dress code was putting air
marshals at risk because it prevented them from looking like  regular travelers.

Although the ban on beards at CBP would seem to be a relatively minor issue,
these are not easy times at Homeland Security.  The National Treasury Employees
Union and the department are locked in a court battle over collective bargaining
and employee rights. A federal judge has blocked the launch of labor-management
rules that would  allow the department to override union contracts in the name
of national security.

Colleen M. Kelley, president of NTEU, said the grievance is not about "silly
rules" but what she sees as a continuing effort by the department to shirk its
duty to bargain. "It's a classic example of them not dealing appropriately with
the union and the employees," she said, adding that, "in my view, this is
something that should have never gotten to this stage."

Kelley said the rules in the union's contract required CBP officers to keep
their hair "neat and clean" and said that their beards, sideburns and mustaches
must be "trimmed and groomed and not be of excessive length."

CBP replaced those with rules that ban beards except for medical reasons and
require that mustaches not extend beyond the corners of the mouth and "must be
conservative in style."

CBP said men's "hair will be neatly trimmed and properly groomed and will not
touch the collar when in a standing position." Sideburns, CBP decided, "shall
not extend below the lowest part of the ear" and "end in a cleanly shaven,
horizontal line." Women's hair "shall be neat, natural in color and
conservatively styled," CBP said. The previous rules did not address hair color,
but the new ones say that men and women can dye their hair only natural colors.

According to the arbitrator's decision, CBP officials testified that they
inherited different standards for beards and imposed the ban on beards because
it was important for employees to project a "neutral and uniform appearance" and
because beards interfere with the use of respirators, which are worn when
inspectors work inside cargo containers and other confined spaces.

Vaughn, however, said the agency "grossly overstated" its concern about
respirator use: "There is no evidence that such a requirement is applicable to
the large majority of agency employees."

As for CBP's concern that time spent on  negotiations would compromise
efficiency, Vaughn said that "the agency's rhetoric is . . . largely unsupported
by the record."

E-mail: barrs@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              168 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Firms in Gulf Coast Allege Nonpayment;
150 Immigrants' Cases Sent to Labor Dept.

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 969 words


Two months after the government began allotting billions of dollars for disaster
relief efforts in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, subcontractors in the
Mississippi Gulf Coast say they are not being paid. As a result, they say, they
cannot pay their workers, who are mostly immigrant laborers and who have painted
homes, removed debris and completed other salvage chores.

Over the past two days, the Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance, or MIRA, has
prepared complaints on behalf of more than 150 immigrant workers, both legal and
illegal, and submitted them to the Labor Department. The complaints are asking
the department to compel at least five subcontractors in Gulfport, Biloxi and
other gulf areas to compensate the workers for as much as $100,000 in unpaid
work.

The allegations came to light during a forum on Katrina-related immigrant abuse,
held by the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights in Washington last week.
Activists said immigrants were living in tents and crowding bus stations to
leave the Gulf Coast because they had not been paid. Others are staying on,
hoping that pay will come.

"They're rebuilding the coast at the expense of immigrant labor, and everybody's
washing their hands over who's responsible for the payment," said Victoria
Cintra of MIRA. "The abuse that happens down here is atrocious, sickening. I'm
not saying everybody's bad. I'm talking about ruthless contractors."

The complaints prepared by MIRA named five subcontractors: Luna's Painting
Service of Pharr, Tex.; Brothers Innovative Painting of Thomasville, Ga.; Wade
Roofing and Construction of Mobile, Ala.; New Look of Pascagoula, Miss.; and KTC
Services, a debris removal company based in Seven Springs, N.C.

Karen Tovar, owner of KTC Services, acknowledged that she could not pay about 80
workers she had employed, noting, "There's nothing I can do until I get paid."

Tovar said she is owed $130,000 for yard cleanup and debris removal by a company
called United Disaster Relief, whose manager, Zachary Johnson, said he also has
not been paid in two months. Johnson said he is a subcontractor of a company
controlled by Halliburton Co., which was awarded a no-bid contract for disaster
relief work by the Bush administration.

"It's very chaotic down here," Tovar said. "I've been in the business for 11
years, and I never had this happen before, and I hope I never have a situation
like this again. I don't know what's going on with Halliburton."

Johnson said Tovar's payroll problems were self-made. He said disaster
subcontractors often go unpaid by larger contractors for months. Johnson said he
told Tovar when he hired her that she needed to have enough money to pay her
workers even if she was not compensated.

"I'm over a million dollars in the hole," he said. "I expect that. I feel sorry
for the guys that Karen has done this. She couldn't feed her men. I gave her
$40,000 out of my pocket. I decided that I would not hire her again."

Rubin Morin, owner of Brothers Innovative Painting, said that he has not been
paid by his prime contractor but that he has paid his workers. "That allegation
is not true. I have canceled checks for the person that shows he has been paid
in full," he said. He also disputed the number of workers who are part of the
complaint against him, saying he does not recognize some of the names.

Another subcontractor  --  Joe Luna of Luna's Painting Service  --  did not
return phone calls seeking a comment. Steve B. McQueen, owner of New Look said
he had nothing to say. A fifth contractor named in the complaint, Wade Roofing
and Construction, could not be reached.

Spokesmen for the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, which oversees about $50 billion in hurricane relief, said
they were unaware that subcontractors and workers were not being paid. The U.S.
Army Corp of Engineers, which hired contractors for debris removal, did not
respond to a request for a comment.

Tamara Faulkner, a spokeswoman for the inspector general's office at DHS, which
is responsible for overseeing more than 100 disaster relief contracts, said the
issue has not been mentioned in reports.

The complaints are the latest in a series of bad news for immigrants caught up
in ruin wrought by Katrina. The Department of Homeland Security announced in
September that illegal immigrants could be deported if they seek government aid.
Later, the Bush administration announced that it was relaxing the rules
requiring employers to confirm the legal status of their workers. As a result,
activists say, companies could hire more undocumented workers. About the same
time, President Bush suspended a law that requires employers who get federal
contracts to pay workers the local prevailing wage.

Under pressure from civil rights groups, unions and members of Congress, Bush
lifted the suspension recently. But two months had passed, Cintra said, and some
subcontractors had already lured laborers to the Gulf Coast with promises that
they would be housed, fed and paid at least $7 an hour. She said many employers
did not deliver on that promise, forcing some workers to live in tents or go to
American Red Cross shelters.

A spokeswoman for the Red Cross in south Mississippi, Mary Lee Conwell,
confirmed Cintra's allegation. "They're getting promised the moon and stars by
contractors . . . but their version of housing and feeding is to put them on a
bus and drop them off at a Red Cross shelter."

Red Cross officials, struggling to provide housing to victims of the hurricane,
provided housing for several days but eventually asked the workers to leave,
Conwell said.

"I wish there was some way to pursue contractors who are taking advantage of the
Red Cross and the workers, especially the non-English-speaking ones," Conwell
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2005



CORRECTION: A Nov. 4 article about companies in the Gulf Coast not being paid
for cleanup work mischaracterized the relationship between United Disaster
Relief and the Halliburton Co. United Disaster Relief is a subcontractor of
another company that has subcontracted with a Halliburton subsidiary. United
Disaster Relief was not a subcontractor of a company controlled by Halliburton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              169 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 6, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Farm Worker Shortage Feared;
Some Blame U.S. Immigration Policy;
Others Cite Low Wages

BYLINE: Bob Christie, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: SAN LUIS, Ariz.


It is only 4 a.m., but the border crossing in this southwest Arizona town is
already jammed with cars and people inching northward to enter the United
States.

The crowds are coming to work in the vast farm fields that stretch for miles
around San Luis and nearby Yuma. But despite the numbers, farmers in the area
say there just are not enough workers pouring across the border each morning.

Right now, early in the winter vegetable growing season, it is not a huge issue
--  the crews are mainly thinning the lettuce crop, setting up irrigation and
running tractors.

But come the middle of this month, farmers say vastly greater numbers will be
needed to harvest lettuce, cauliflower, broccoli and celery, and they worry that
the workers will not be there. About 35,000 to 40,000 workers are needed to
bring in the whole harvest and prevent some of it from rotting in the fields,
they say.

Growers and contractors such as Sonny Rodriguez, a second-generation farm labor
contractor who runs 70 buses in the Yuma area, say the shortage of workers is
the result of a broken federal immigration policy. They say a guest-worker
program that will allow the immigrant laborers they need to enter the county is
badly needed.

Although farm worker advocates agree there is a shortage of workers, they
contend the problem is of the farmers' own making.

"The pay is so low, and the benefits so lacking, the conditions so harsh, that
people don't stay in the industry," said Marc Grossman, spokesman for the United
Farm Workers union. "If you're an undocumented worker and you start in the
fields, as soon as you can, you find a job in another industry."

Farmers say only about 10 percent of the estimated 10 million to 12 million
undocumented workers in the country are in agriculture. The rest fill jobs in
construction, hotels, restaurants, factories and landscaping.

The farm worker shortage issue has  turned up in other farming areas this year,
most recently during the raisin harvest in California's Central Valley and the
apple harvest in Washington state.

The Yuma valley in Arizona and the Imperial Valley to the west in California
produce about 90 percent of the winter vegetables consumed in the United States,
according to Western Growers Association, a trade group representing farmers in
both states. As much as $1 billion in crops are harvested, cooled and packed
over the winter growing season.

The workers who cross the border from San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico, to San
Luis, Ariz., each morning to pick those vegetables are legal  --  mainly
permanent U.S. residents or visa holders who could live in the United States but
choose to live in Mexico because it is home and the cost of living there is
lower.

But the buses in San Luis that transport workers to the fields also pick up
their share of illegal immigrants, those who have bypassed the border crossing
by jumping the fences, crossing the desert or swimming the Colorado River to
make it here.

Growers and labor contractors concede they need the illegal workers but insist
that they follow the law by checking documentation. Last year, when the Border
Patrol started a crackdown that snared illegal workers on the buses, farmers
protested, saying the crackdowns scared away workers.

For the moment, the challenge is to avoid a predicted 20 percent shortfall in
pickers this winter. For the long term, several proposals dealing with
immigration reform are now before Congress, but action is unlikely until next
year.

Farmers are pushing a new proposal for an emergency pilot program in the Yuma
region. Under the proposal, workers would have to get Mexican passports, then
apply for a temporary U.S. work visa, Rodriguez said. The local county
employment office would then match them with growers or contractors who need
labor, with the first jobs going to interested U.S. citizens.

"We're trying to find a short-term solution until the Congress develops the
political will to come up with compromise legislation that gives us a legal and
stable work force," said Thomas A. Nassif, president of Western Growers.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              170 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 13, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Infighting on the Frontiers, Fallout in Washington

SECTION: Metro; C02 ,

LENGTH: 729 words


They are supposed to be on the same team, but the turf wars inside the
Department of Homeland Security show that two big agencies aren't pulling
together:

*  Immigration and Customs Enforcement decided not to open a probe into a
possible financial crimes case because Customs and Border Protection had taken
credit for money that was seized.

*  After the arrests of several illegal immigrants and the seizure of illegal
narcotics, Border Protection inspectors did not refer the case to ICE for
prosecution but to local police.

*  ICE investigators said a search warrant would be needed before agents entered
a hotel room being used by suspected smugglers of immigrants. Border Patrol
agents got the hotel manager to open the room. The case was never prosecuted
because the evidence was not admissible.

The cases, and several other troubling tales, are part of a report scheduled for
release Tuesday that shows that Homeland Security's field operations are plagued
by distrust and lack of coordination.

The report, from Richard L. Skinner, inspector general for the department,
recommends that Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary, merge CBP and
ICE to create "a stronger and more complete border security program."

Skinner's investigators conducted more than 300 interviews involving more than
600 employees in 10 cities and 63 field offices. The portrait drawn from the
interviews depicts a Washington headquarters that has been slow to resolve
conflicts and ineffective in getting field operations in sync.

"We encountered bitter and vocal frustration from many DHS employees over basic
questions, such as mission confusion, operational frustration . . . and a
skepticism over whether DHS leadership was attentively engaged in finding
answers for them," the report said.

Field employees "communicated a high degree of frustration with the current
structure," the report said. "We observed antagonism between CPB and ICE that
appears to be increasing and solidifying."

CPB and ICE account for half of the department's 180,000 employees, and the two
agencies are vital to Bush administration plans to secure borders and deter
terrorist attacks.

The agencies were formed out of the old Customs Service and the old Immigration
and Naturalization Service. In the reorganization, the responsibility for
customs and immigration enforcement was spread across the two agencies. CBP got
the Border Patrol and the combined responsibilities that the Customs Service and
INS had at ports of entry. ICE got the combined investigative and intelligence
functions and the INS detention and deportation responsibilities.

In this new bureaucratic world, the IG report said, enforcement efforts started
by CBP now have to be completed by ICE. Border Patrol agents now rely on ICE to
detain and deport illegal immigrants.

But CPB and ICE never got off on the right foot. "Shortfalls in operational
coordination and information sharing have fostered an environment of uncertainty
and mistrust between CBP and ICE personnel," the report said. "Where collegial
interactions should characterize relations between employees of the two
organizations, we have been told of competition and, sometimes, interference."

The 161-page report from Skinner is the most recent criticism of the Homeland
Security reorganization. Last year, the Center for Strategic and International
Studies and the Heritage Foundation recommended the merger of CBP and ICE. After
a January hearing on Heritage's ideas, Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), chairman of
the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, asked Skinner
for a probe.

Chertoff opted against merging CBP and ICE in July when he revamped some
Homeland Security operations. In a response accompanying the report, Michael P.
Jackson, Chertoff's deputy, said the report "lacks analytic rigor, and it is
tainted by factual errors." Skinner's investigators defend their methodology.

Collins and Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.) said in a statement that they
take Skinner's report seriously. Collins said she is willing to give Chertoff
more time to make changes in CBP and ICE but added that the committee may
consider legislation next year to merge the bureaus.

Skinner's report, she said, verifies what others have said  --  "these two
agencies are dysfunctional in their current structure."

E-mail: barrs@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              171 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 17, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

6 in Md. Charged With Operating Prostitution Ring;
Some Women Working Brothels Alleged to Be Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Ernesto Londono, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 673 words


Federal agents arrested a 43-year-old Gaithersburg woman, her mother, two
siblings and two men yesterday on charges of running a prostitution ring that
operated out of several Montgomery County apartments.

They were charged with conspiring to transport illegal immigrants across state
lines to engage in prostitution and of conspiring to harbor foreigners who were
in the country unlawfully, according to a two-count indictment unsealed
yesterday by a U.S. magistrate judge in Greenbelt.

Alleged ringleader Elsy Aparicio, her mother, Olinda Aparicio, 64, and Elsy's
siblings Dorinalda Aparicio, 34, and Eliazor Gonzalez Aparicio, 29, operated
brothels out of nine apartments in Montgomery County, six of them in
Gaithersburg, prosecutors said. The other three were in Germantown, Wheaton and
Hyattsville.

Manuel Jandres, 38, of Germantown and Jair Francis, 32, of Wheaton were also
indicted. According to the indictment, one of Francis's tasks was to provide
information to the Aparicio family about law enforcement inquiries into a
brothel at the Georgian Woods Apartments in Wheaton.

Maryland U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein said the defendants transported many of
the prostitutes from the New York metropolitan area, where most lived, to the
Montgomery apartments.

Katherine Chon, co-executive director of the Polaris Project, an organization
that monitors coerced prostitution in the Washington area, said a recent
crackdown on brothels that operate as spas and massage parlors has shifted the
trade to private residences.

"Obviously it makes it more difficult to detect when they're not in commercial
establishments," Rosenstein said in an interview. "But this case demonstrates
that we are capable of locating them wherever they are."

A law enforcement source close to the investigation said Elsy Aparicio first
came to the attention of local police in 1996. Federal investigators began
looking into the network roughly two years ago, said the source, who asked not
to be identified because the case remains open. Most of the prostitutes were
young Mexican women, but some were from Central America and a few were minors,
the source said.

The owners advertised by word of mouth and by handing out business cards, the
source said. They catered almost exclusively to Hispanic men, the source said.
The source said the ring has operated out of at least 20 area establishments.

A similar criminal case filed this year against Elsy Aparicio's common-law
husband sheds light into the alleged family business. Jonathan Lopez-Cruz, 31,
the defendant in that case, admitted in court documents that he drove a white
Chevrolet van with Maryland license plates to cities in New York and New Jersey
to pick up women, who were then brought to Maryland to work at brothels.

FBI agents had learned that some women arrested on prostitution charges in
Maryland lived in the New York area, Assistant U.S. Attorney Chan Park wrote in
a court document filed in August. Newark FBI agents had seen women in the
Maryland-bound van Dec. 3, 2004, and April 25 in Union City.

On May 9, New Jersey State Police troopers, working with FBI agents, stopped the
white van at a gas station off Interstate 95 near Union City and found 11 women
en route to Maryland brothels, according to the document.

Lopez-Cruz was driving, and agents identified a second male passenger as Manuel
A. Romero, who authorities said had been arrested that year in Gaithersburg on
prostitution charges. Lopez-Cruz had a notebook with the names, phone numbers
and addresses of the women. Lopez-Cruz told agents that he charged each woman
$50 for a one-way trip to Langley Park and that he sometimes drove the women
back to the New York area.

The defendants will appear in federal court in Greenbelt today for detention
hearings. A woman who answered the door at Lopez-Cruz's residence in
Gaithersburg declined to comment yesterday. A second-story window at the
red-brick house was shattered during the arrest.

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              172 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Virginia's Message to the GOP

BYLINE: Leslie Sanchez

SECTION: Editorial; A25

LENGTH: 767 words


Republicans nationally should draw a number of lessons from the party's
unsuccessful effort to take back the Virginia governor's mansion this month. One
of the more obvious ones is that the anti-tax party has to lead with an anti-tax
candidate. Republican Jerry Kilgore, in his effort to win the backing of the
Northern Virginia business community, played down his historical anti-tax
leanings. He got the business support but lost the election.

There is, however, a more subtle but potentially as important lesson for
Republicans that could be drowned out by the tax discussion: When it comes to
immigration, dropping the word "illegal" into any anti-immigration proposal is
not likely to work electoral magic.

In his stump speeches and in his television ads, Kilgore hit his Democratic
opponent, Tim Kaine, on the immigration issue but was careful to use the word
"illegal" in his rhetoric at every turn, as if that alone were some kind of
magic bullet.

This is the stuff of GOP consultants and pollsters, who advise that even legal
immigrants are opposed to "illegal" immigration. That's true, of course: Nobody
defends those who flout the law, and resentment is especially acute among those
who have gone to extreme lengths to comply. What these advisers miss, however,
is the question of intensity: Substantial numbers of immigrants (not to mention
their children and grandchildren, too) hear attacks on "illegal" immigration as
attacks on them  --  so that a discussion of, say, day laborers can quickly turn
into an anti-Hispanic free-for-all.

Hispanics know from experience that most people can't tell the difference
between legal and illegal immigrants or, in many cases, between immigrants and
U.S.-born, Spanish-speaking Hispanics  --  so they just assume the worst absent
proof to the contrary.

It's not just Hispanics, though. Kilgore lost reliably Republican and
conservative Prince William and Loudoun counties  --  places where he issued a
strong call for a "crackdown" on illegal immigration. Why? One reason may be
that close to 15,000 Muslims  --  many of them immigrants  --  live in those
counties, and, according to some post-election survey data, they supported
Democrats by close to 30 to 1. Kilgore is the first Republican since 1989 to
lose those two counties.

Republicans embrace anti-immigrant fervor at their peril. The party is
perilously close to adopting as its immigration policy the hanging of a "closed"
sign on the border. To do so would be a gross mistake that would oversimplify
the problem and set back all the efforts of President Bush to build bridges to
America's growing population of Hispanics while finding a workable solution to a
complex problem, one with far-ranging political consequences for the party over
the long run.

To be sure, the issue of illegal immigration is a serious one that needs and
deserves to be addressed: No one should make light of the genuine resentment
some people feel. Almost 40 years of immigrant vote-buying by advocates of the
liberal welfare state has only made matters worse. The point the party must
absorb is that while it's one thing to talk about specific policies, it's quite
another to issue broadsides that reinforce the perception of a Republican Party
that is, in its soul, intolerant.

Republicans would do well to recognize the folly in the approach used by Kilgore
before recommending it to other candidates. Rather than a comprehensive approach
to the problem broadly defined as immigration, they would do well to break it
down into its constituent parts: border security, public policies that inhibit
assimilation, the issue of guest workers and the problem of illegal immigration
itself. It is time to recognize that the problem may be too big and too complex
to approach with one big bill.

Ham-fisted attacks by Kilgore and others on illegal immigrants, while political
red meat for some, cause many in our coalition  --  particularly Hispanics and
suburban women  --  to recoil. For them, such attacks run counter to the
Reaganite image of America as a welcoming land of opportunity, a place where
anyone can  --  through hard work, smarts and a little luck  --  pursue
happiness as the Founding Fathers intended. Immigrants from around the world
made this country, and immigrants will continue to make this country a better
place, a fact that no great political party can ignore for long.

The writer is president of Impacto Group LLC, a communication research firm. She
previously served as executive director of the White House Initiative on
Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              173 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Stories Play Out in the Classroom;
On Arlington Seventh-Graders' Mock Ellis Island, Everyone's a Newcomer

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 966 words


Yesterday at Swanson Middle School, the tired, the poor and the huddled masses
trooped excitedly past large drawings of a ship and the Statue of Liberty and
jostled their way into America.

"Thees line ees too long," grumbled a boy in a wool cap.

"I learned English from zis book," said a tall girl in a head scarf, holding up
a Bible written in Cyrillic script and clutching a sepia photo of a bearded man.

As part of an annual social studies and English segment on immigration,
seventh-graders at the Arlington school each come up with a character who might
have arrived at Ellis Island in the late 1800s and spend several weeks
researching the character's background. The day is spent in costume  --
Scottish tartans, German dirndls, Russian shawls  --  and in character, accent
and all.

But yesterday's activities did not focus entirely on the old days. Down a hall,
past boxes painted with windows to look like New York buildings and cardboard
laundry strung on lines to recall tenement life, some present-day immigrants
awaited.

They are also Swanson students. But instead of playing newcomers for a day, they
were the real thing. The students, enrolled in the school's English as a Second
Language program and representing 15 countries, sat at desks laden with items
from their home countries and answered questions from the seventh-graders about
their immigrant experiences.

The Ellis Island simulation has been part of Swanson's curriculum since 1993,
but the interviews with fellow students began two years ago because of
Arlington's large immigrant population. Teachers say it helps the students
connect with the diverse population around them.

Most of the newcomers said they had come for a better education and had been
scared or shy when they arrived.

When he came from Guinea-Bissau a couple of winters ago, Soufan Mos Ie, 13,
didn't have to go through the humiliations of Ellis Island, but he did have a
rude awakening. "It was really cold," he said, "and I didn't have a jacket."

Karaca Dokuzcan, 11, pointed at an image of a man on Turkish currency and gave a
flash history lesson: "This guy on the money, he fought the war, and we won, and
Turkey was discovered in 1923, and he earned the name Ataturk, father of the
Turks."

Turkey is different from the United States, Karaca explained to a 13-year-old
interviewer, "because you can do fireworks there whenever you want. You can only
do it for Fourth of July here."

Cathy Hix, who teaches American studies at Swanson, said the segment fits in
with the Virginia Standards of Learning tests, which  include the impact that
immigrants have had on America. Personalizing the voyage helps bridge the gap
between new arrivals and native speakers, she said.

"It shows them that immigration is an ongoing theme," she said. "It's kind of
that affective part of education, that we're not just teaching facts, we're
building attitudes."

In the past, she said, "we've had stories of kids that literally walked out [of
their countries] with nothing . . . . They lived with friends, their father had
no job."

Soufan said he liked being interviewed about his homeland. "I feel good, because
no one ever knows about my country 'cause it's a small country," he said.

Katie McKenna, 12, interviewed Yerkanat Unurkhan, 11,  about the differences
between the United States and his native Mongolia.

In America, said Yerkanat, a round-faced boy in a velvet embroidered cap who
came here two years ago, "they have a lot of cars and tall people."

Katie, who had taken the name of her Irish cousin, Colleen, said interviewing
recent arrivals made her feel "really fortunate that we live here, because they
didn't get the educations that we did in their countries."

Dressed as a Russian immigrant named "Alexandra Zhivago," Khulan Batmunkh, 12,
interviewed Mario Arevalo, 12, of El Salvador and heard about its hot weather
and volcanoes.

"Is the U.S. the way you expected it would be?" she asked. "What surprised you?"

"I thought there would be big buildings, but it's small apartments," he said.

"That's what I thought, too," Khulan said, nodding. A native of Mongolia, she,
too, was a new arrival who once spoke only a few words of English. That was
three years ago; now she has barely a trace of an accent and has moved out of
the ESL program.

Khulan, who wants to be an actress or a model, said she "kind of forgot my
language" but is more confident around ESL students. "I don't know why, but
around white kids I'm shy," she said. "I feel like if I do something wrong
they'll probably make fun of me."

She likes the idea of her classmates learning more about her homeland. "Mongolia
isn't a country like Germany or Italy," she said. "It's not a country that you,
like, know, or really want to go there." Still, she said, "I don't want people
to think it's a stupid country or whatever . . . I want people to respect it."

Yesterday, the students carried babies, violins and other valuables and
navigated through the background checks, medical exams, intelligence tests and
tricks from dockside hucksters that old-time immigrants faced; most were allowed
into America, but a few who couldn't persuade immigration officials (teachers in
costume) to let them in were deported.

Going through it reminded Khulan that some things haven't changed for
immigrants. "I've seen a lot of people who were, like, doctors in their
countries, and they're, like, working in the bathroom or at Subway," she said.

At the end, those who were approved for entry into the United States got to hold
an American flag and take a loyalty oath, similar to that taken by naturalized
citizens.

Khulan was one of them. "It felt really good," she said, smiling. "I, like,
really wanted to be an American citizen, just like other people."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              174 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

'86 Alito Memo Argues Against Foreigners' Rights;
Work for Justice Dept. Points to Views That May Affect Anti-Terrorism Rulings on
High Court

BYLINE: Jo Becker and Amy Goldstein, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 1154 words


As a senior lawyer in the Reagan Justice Department, Samuel A. Alito Jr. argued
that immigrants who enter the United States illegally and foreigners living
outside their countries are not entitled to the constitutional rights afforded
to Americans.

In an opinion that offers insight into the Supreme Court nominee's view of an
area of law that has gained new significance with the Bush administration's
policies to combat terrorism, Alito gave his approval to an FBI effort in the
1980s to collect from Canadian authorities fingerprint cards of Iranian and
Afghan refugees living in that country.

The program to collect background information was constitutional, Alito wrote in
a January 1986 memo to the FBI director. And because the refugees were
nonresident immigrants of a third country, he reasoned, the FBI could disregard
court decisions that prohibited it from spreading "stigmatizing" information
about citizens.

With the Supreme Court scheduled to hear a major case  this  term involving the
Bush administration's policy of trying "enemy combatants" in military tribunals,
Alito's views of the FBI's old anti-terrorism fingerprint program have resonance
today, reflecting what legal experts said is a broad and aggressive view of the
law.

The memo on the rights of immigrants was among 120 documents from Alito's
16-month tenure as a deputy assistant attorney general in the Office of Legal
Counsel that the Justice Department released yesterday in response to a Freedom
of Information Act request by The Washington Post and other news organizations.
The agency withheld 70 other documents, asserting that they were exempt from
disclosure on grounds of privacy, attorney-client privilege or rules relating to
classified information. Names and other details were blacked-out on some
documents that were released.

Still, the memos, letters and other papers, most of them written by Alito
himself, provide the most vivid picture available to date of the future
nominee's role and views from December 1985 to March 1987, when he worked on
legal matters as a high-ranking political appointee during President Ronald
Reagan's second term. He would go on to become U.S. attorney for New Jersey and,
later, an appeals court judge.

His writings show Alito in sync with the philosophy of the Republican
administration of which he was a part, staking out strong stances on aggressive
law enforcement and on states' rights. The views he expresses also could be
construed as paralleling those of the Bush administration as it has pursued its
campaign against terrorists, legal experts said.

The current administration has contended, for instance, that al Qaeda and
Taliban detainees held at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, had no
right to have their case heard by a U.S. judge. That is in part because, like
the Afghan and Iranian refugees in Canada about whom Alito wrote, the recent
detainees were not on U.S. soil. That view was rejected last year by a divided
Supreme Court.

In his 1986 memo, Alito cites a 1950 Supreme Court case to support the
contention that nonresident immigrants of other countries have "no due process
rights" under the Constitution and a 1970 case that he said suggests illegal
immigrants in the United States have limited constitutional rights.

Martin Redish, a constitutional law professor at Northwestern University Law
School, said that view could also be used to justify a current administration
policy under which the CIA is interrogating suspected terrorists in a covert
prison system in Eastern Europe and elsewhere.

Conservative constitutional analyst Bruce Fein, who served in the Reagan
administration with Alito, said that by the time Alito wrote the memo the
Supreme Court had ruled that school-age illegal immigrants had a right to a
public education.

"He seems to be saying that there is no constitutional constraints placed on
U.S. officials in their treatment of nonresident aliens or illegal aliens. Could
you shoot them? Could you torture them?" Fein asked. "It's a very aggressive
reading of cases that addressed much narrower issues."

On other law enforcement issues, Alito also took a pro-government approach. In a
January 1986 memo, Alito expressed several concerns about ethics guidelines for
prosecutors that had been proposed by the D.C. Bar Association, saying they
would impose "unworkable burdens" on lawyers responsible for bringing criminals
to justice.

In another memo a few months later, Alito cited a loophole he said would allow
IRS attorneys investigating taxpayers to get around an American Bar Association
rule that prohibited lawyers from secretly recording conversations.

In late 1986, Alito also suggested that he favored allowing law enforcement
agencies to use "message-switching" technology banned by Congress, in which they
intercepted computer messages, stored them and relayed them to the unsuspecting
intended recipient. He said that it was unconstitutional to allow legislative
committees to approve of this technique but went on to say: "We would be happy
to assist you in drafting proposed legislation that would authorize message
switching."

Alito displayed his concern for states' rights in a memo the following year to
John R. Bolton, at the time an assistant attorney general and now U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations. In the 1987 memo, Alito cautioned about
aspects of an agreement on universal children's rights that the State Department
was negotiating with the U.N. Commission on Human Rights.

Alito said that provisions in the U.N. document "will undertake to provide broad
protections for children," such as free care of disabled children and free
primary education, that are not guaranteed by the federal government. "Unless
the federal government actually intends to undertake these responsibilities on a
national level (and we would vigorously oppose such an undertaking on federalism
grounds) we believe that the Department of State should make clear in
negotiations that it is unlikely" the United States would agree to such terms
and "their fulfillment will be at the discretion of the states." And he said the
U.N. document would conflict with laws in some states by forbidding death
sentences for criminals younger than 18  --  a practice recently outlawed by the
Supreme Court.

At other points, the writings show Alito protecting the political interests of
the Reagan White House. In a March 1987 memo, he disagreed with an earlier
opinion from the Office of Legal Counsel, which had concluded that it was
improper for people who did work at the White House without a government salary
to be paid by national political organizations. Because many White House workers
already have an "acknowledged and accepted partisan political bent," he wrote,
"it strikes us as counterintuitive to suggest that an objectionable conflict of
interest" would arise if they were paid by a political group.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              175 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Borderline Public Policy

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby,, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute

SECTION: Style; C04 , BOOK WORLD

LENGTH: 1145 words


THE 50% AMERICAN

Immigration and National Identity in an Age of Terror

By Stanley A. Renshon

Georgetown Univ. 273 pp. $26.95

There's nothing more disappointing in a public-policy book than a good idea
pushed too far: an author who raises probing and important questions and then,
instead of exploring them thoughtfully, crushes the topic with a sledgehammer.

Psychoanalyst and political science professor Stanley A. Renshon couldn't be
more on target when he asks in his introduction, "What exactly binds  us
together as a people?" How do we encourage a sense of "national community"? And,
most pressing perhaps, what will it take to make Americans out of the millions
of immigrants arriving on our shores today? Our future as a society  --  and as
a nation of immigrants  --  depends not just on grappling with these difficult
questions, but on getting the answers right.

Renshon has read widely and thought hard about the problem. As a psychiatrist,
he also views it from an intriguing vantage point  --  one that helps him go a
step further than others who see the challenge in entirely "cognitive" or
cerebral terms. And he's right that the nation needs to make sure all Americans,
newcomer and native, feel not just theoretically but also emotionally attached
with the kind of pride and loyalty that is traditionally  --  no apologies
necessary  --  labeled "patriotism."

But here's where "The 50% American" veers off the tracks: Although Renshon seems
to understand in theory that people live with layered loyalties  --  that one
can be, as he writes about himself, "a husband, professor, Jew,  American"  --
when confronted with a real case, he finds such multiple layers deeply
threatening. Psychiatrist that he is, he seems strangely unsophisticated about
how most people manage their psychic attachments  --  how they rank and order
and live quite comfortably, thank you, with an array of different identities.

The layering that bothers him most is dual citizenship, which he points out has
exploded in recent decades. By his estimate, more than 80 percent of the
immigrants who have entered the United States since 1961 have come from places
that allow or encourage dual citizenship. Though the rules vary from country to
country, this often means they can vote, hold office and serve in the militaries
of two "homelands." "The chief concern about dual citizenship," Renshon writes,
"is that it encourages or results in shallower attachments to the American
national community." And to a degree, he's right to be concerned: In the
abstract, this is a somewhat troubling prospect. Ultimately, if most dual
citizens were equally and enduringly loyal to both nations, they would be true
to neither and would have trouble fully belonging in either one.

But Renshon's nightmare vision of galloping civic bigamy is just that  --  an
exaggerated nightmare vision. Take Mexico, the country that bothers him most.
True enough, Mexico now permits dual nationality: As of 1998, naturalized
Mexican American immigrants and their U.S.-born children have been allowed to
regain Mexican nationality. But in the first five years the law was on the
books, only a fraction of the eligible population bothered to apply: 1.6
percent, to be precise. And those who have done so invariably explain it as more
a matter of convenience than of dual loyalty: Dual nationality makes it easier,
among other perks, to own and inherit Mexican real estate.

What's more, far from deterring naturalization in the United States, the new
Mexican law has sharply spurred it. One of the reasons, it turns out, that many
Mexican Americans did not in the past choose to become U.S. citizens was that
they feared it would seem they were shunning their families or trying to
obliterate their roots. But now that they don't have to shed one association to
embrace the other, many are much more comfortable becoming U.S. citizens. Even
when immigrants do embrace two identities, it tends to be a passing phase.
First-generation Americans have always lived between two worlds, one foot in the
old place and the other in the United States. And eventually they have always
tilted in one direction or another, with some returning home and others putting
down roots here. The story is no different today  --  even with cheap
international travel and the emphasis that multiculturalism puts on ethnic
differences.

But how would Renshon know this? As far as one can tell from the evidence in his
book, he has never spoken to a single person of the kind he's supposedly writing
about: immigrants and their families. Sure, the left-wing professors and
multiculti activists he quotes on page after page say silly, wrongheaded things
--  railing against borders and denouncing America. But Renshon goes too far
when he suggests that it is easy for those born in another country "to see the
United States instrumentally," argues that the identities of people with dual
nationality are "more likely to be conflicted than functional" and questions
"whether, given the importance of their national attachments to many people, it
is possible to put aside those older attachments and give primary weight to the
new ones."

How dare he claim that immigrant adults cannot and do not learn new loyalties?
Has he never felt the patriotism of a newly minted American citizen or counted
the disproportionate number of Hispanic names on the lists of those killed in
Iraq and Afghanistan? Like much of the rest of the book, his solution makes
sense in theory, but would go too far in practice. Recognizing that we are
unlikely to outlaw dual citizenship  --  largely because we can't control other
countries that permit it  --  Renshon suggests instead that we "regulate" it, in
effect criminalizing the privileges that come with it: voting, running for
office and serving in the military in other countries. In a perfect world, it
would probably be better if people didn't do these things: Over a lifetime, such
activities could dilute U.S. citizenship. But criminalizing them is only going
to drive them underground and hardly seems an effective way to win new
immigrants' love and loyalty.

Renshon is on far more solid ground when he suggests that we take positive steps
to encourage immigrants to become Americans, giving them the tools to assimilate
--  for example, providing English classes. He isn't wrong: In the long run, few
people can handle two "primary" attachments  --  just as few live forever
straddling their parents' home and their marriage. But the best way to help
someone make the transition is not to scold or nag. It's to make the new home so
appealing that the strength of the new attachment eventually takes over. As a
psychologist, Renshon ought to know this  --  and as a patriotic American, he
ought to have more faith in the seductive power of our way of life and our
ideals.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              176 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

HIV-AIDS Care in Md. Comes Under Criticism

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 572 words


Public health clinics have such a shortage of Spanish-speaking case managers
that janitors or other untrained workers sometimes are called on to translate
sensitive information about HIV-AIDS to clients, according to a study released
yesterday by CASA of Maryland, a Silver Spring-based immigrant advocacy group.

In focus groups of Latino residents and surveys of service providers in Prince
George's and Montgomery counties, the study also found that most pamphlets and
educational material on the disease are available only in English and that
clients often fear the actions of immigration authorities and stigma in their
community for seeking services.

Carmen A. Valenzuela-Dall, a doctor and researcher who authored the study, said
governments need to do more to provide basic health services and need to hire
culturally diverse and bilingual staffs.

Gaining access to health care is "such an adventure in this country for the
undocumented immigrants and the people who don't speak English," Valenzuela-Dall
said. Without bilingual health workers and materials, "how can we pretend to
provide services?"

She compared the situation to putting up billboards telling illiterate people to
write their governments for help.

The CASA report, funded by the Washington AIDS Partnership, a philanthropic
group, was released in commemoration of World AIDS Day.

At yesterday's news conference, Maryland and Montgomery health officials said
that they have worked to provide better outreach to foreign language speakers
but acknowledged that much more needs to be done.

Naomi Tomoyasu, acting director of the state's AIDS Administration, said the
agency is planning to buy one or two mobile health units to roam immigrant-heavy
communities in Prince George's and Montgomery to reach more residents.

However, she said, lack of funding may curtail initiatives. The agency receives
about $50 million a year, most of it from the federal government, to distribute
to public health providers statewide, but budget cuts are expected next year as
Congress slashes spending on social services.

Tomoyasu said the number of Latinos infected with HIV was probably "woefully
underrepresented and undercounted."

Since HIV data collection began in 1994, about 2,200 new infections a year have
been reported in Maryland. The state had 28,226 cases as of June 2004, about 23
percent of them in Prince George's and Montgomery counties. The numbers do not
reflect the ethnicity of the cases.

Nationwide, Latinos account for 18.3 percent of the people living with HIV-AIDS,
according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Richard M. Helfrich, Montgomery's deputy health director, said that even as the
county improves services for Latinos in Spanish, workers speaking other
languages are needed. A quarter of the clients at the county's health clinic on
Dennis Avenue in Silver Spring are French-speaking African immigrants, the same
percentage as the Latino clients, he said.

Montgomery County Council President Tom Perez (D-Silver Spring) said county
leaders have to do more to invest in culturally inclusive services. Otherwise,
"that's not only bad public health policy, but that's against the law," he said.
Federal law mandates that publicly funded agencies make services accessible to
all eligible people, including those with limited English skills.

"Access to health care is not a privilege. It's a right," Perez said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              177 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

HIV-AIDS Care in Md. Criticized;
Study Points to Shortage Of Bilingual Employees

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 572 words


Public health clinics have such a shortage of Spanish-speaking case managers
that janitors or other untrained workers sometimes are called on to translate
sensitive information about HIV-AIDS to clients, according to a study released
yesterday by CASA of Maryland, a Silver Spring-based immigrant advocacy group.

In focus groups of Latino residents and surveys of service providers in Prince
George's and Montgomery counties, the study also found that most pamphlets and
educational material on the disease are available only in English and that
clients often fear the actions of immigration authorities and stigma in their
community for seeking services.

Carmen A. Valenzuela-Dall, a doctor and researcher who authored the study, said
governments need to do more to provide basic health services and need to hire
culturally diverse and bilingual staffs.

Gaining access to health care is "such an adventure in this country for the
undocumented immigrants and the people who don't speak English," Valenzuela-Dall
said. Without bilingual health workers and materials, "how can we pretend to
provide services?"

She compared the situation to putting up billboards telling illiterate people to
write their governments for help.

The CASA report, funded by the Washington AIDS Partnership, a philanthropic
group, was released in commemoration of World AIDS Day.

At yesterday's news conference, Maryland and Montgomery health officials said
that they have worked to provide better outreach to foreign language speakers
but acknowledged that much more needs to be done.

Naomi Tomoyasu, acting director of the state's AIDS Administration, said the
agency is planning to buy one or two mobile health units to roam immigrant-heavy
communities in Prince George's and Montgomery to reach more residents.

However, she said, lack of funding may curtail initiatives. The agency receives
about $50 million a year, most of it from the federal government, to distribute
to public health providers statewide, but budget cuts are expected next year as
Congress slashes spending on social services.

Tomoyasu said the number of Latinos infected with HIV was probably "woefully
underrepresented and undercounted."

Since HIV data collection began in 1994, about 2,200 new infections a year have
been reported in Maryland. The state had 28,226 cases as of June 2004, about 23
percent of them in Prince George's and Montgomery counties. The numbers do not
reflect the ethnicity of the cases.

Nationwide, Latinos account for 18.3 percent of the people living with HIV-AIDS,
according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Richard M. Helfrich, Montgomery's deputy health director, said that even as the
county improves services for Latinos in Spanish, workers speaking other
languages are needed. A quarter of the clients at the county's health clinic on
Dennis Avenue in Silver Spring are French-speaking African immigrants, the same
percentage as the Latino clients, he said.

Montgomery County Council President Tom Perez (D-Silver Spring) said county
leaders have to do more to invest in culturally inclusive services. Otherwise,
"that's not only bad public health policy, but that's against the law," he said.
Federal law mandates that publicly funded agencies make services accessible to
all eligible people, including those with limited English skills.

"Access to health care is not a privilege. It's a right," Perez said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              178 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Dean Hammers Bush On War, Immigration;
DNC Chief Gives Preview of '06 Race

BYLINE: Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX Dec. 3


Democratic Party  Chairman Howard Dean offered a preview of the 2006 elections
here  Saturday with a blistering critique of President Bush's policies on Iraq
and immigration and the Republicans' ethics scandals. But he warned Democrats
they cannot expect to win next year without offering an agenda of their own.

Speaking  at the fall meeting of the Democratic National Committee, Dean pledged
that Democrats would offer tax policies aimed at middle-class voters, a plan to
provide health insurance to all Americans, immigration proposals that offer a
path to legalization for illegal immigrants, and defense policies that would
protect the nation and expose the "hollow promises" of the Bush administration.

Dean warmly praised Rep. John P. Murtha (D-Pa.) for "standing up and telling the
truth" about Bush's policies in Iraq, and suggested that the Pennsylvanian had
offered a vision around which Democrats could rally. But  Dean stopped well
short of embracing Murtha's call for a withdrawal plan that would redeploy all
U.S. troops within about six months. Instead Dean called on Democrats to
coalesce around a proposal that would keep some U.S. forces in Iraq for two more
years.

The former Vermont governor's remarks underscored the party's continuing debate
over Iraq and the reluctance of many party leaders to support Murtha's call for
a speedy withdrawal strategy. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (Calif.)
announced her support for Murtha's plan last week, but others in the party
leadership have declined to do so, in part out of fears that a swift withdrawal
could leave Iraq worse off than it is today and hand the GOP a political weapon.

Dean came to national prominence in 2003 by opposing Bush's decision to invade
Iraq and has spoken for the party's antiwar grass-roots activists. But in his
speech he blended strong criticism of the president for going to war under false
pretenses with a more measured endorsement of a plan promoted by the Center for
American Progress, a liberal think tank, which would redeploy about 80,000 U.S.
troops from Iraq in 2006 and the remainder by the end of 2007.

Displaying the fiery style that excited many Democrats during his unsuccessful
presidential campaign, Dean attacked "political hacks and cronies" of the
president for eroding civil rights and voting rights protections, and said of
Republicans:  "Theirs is a party of self-absorption and selfishness."

Saying Bush had used race and gay rights to divide the electorate, Dean said,
"In 2006, it's going to be immigration;  that's who he's going to scapegoat
next." He said Democrats must favor tougher enforcement of existing immigration
laws and provide tighter border security, but said a balanced immigration policy
would provide a way to give many of the 11 million illegal immigrants a path to
legal status.

The Democratic meeting came at a time of growing confidence within the party
that 2006 could bring significant gains in Congress and the statehouses  because
of Bush's low approval ratings and public anxiety about Iraq. But Dean said
those conditions alone are not sufficient to produce Democratic victories.
"We're doing the things that need to be done, but we have a long way to go," he
said. "The collapse of confidence in the Republican leadership is not enough to
elect Democratic leadership. We have to stand up for what we believe."

Dean has faced criticism within some parts of the party for his stewardship at
the DNC, particularly the pace at which the national party has been spending
money  --  something that has alarmed many Democratic strategists who fear
Republicans will have a huge financial advantage next year.

But he won near-universal praise among the DNC and state party leaders who
gathered here this weekend, saying his emphasis on grass-roots organization was
a welcome change from the past. Dean built  his campaign for chairman by
courting state party leaders, and many said this weekend that he had delivered
on his promise to shift money and resources into their states. They defended the
money he has spent by saying it represents an investment in party-building in
places long ignored by the national party.

Keelan Sanders, executive director of the Mississippi Democratic Party said that
with Dean's support, the state party staff had grown from one full-time person
to four. Others cited examples of additional staff and help with technical
problems. Bobby Kahn, the Georgia Democratic chairman, said the relationship
between the national and state parties is the best he has seen in almost two
decades.

The weekend meeting offered the first tentative signs of the party's
determination to address military and religious matters that have often cost
them in elections. "We will not run from the debate on moral values," Dean said.
"We will embrace it."

To that end, Democrats held two organizing sessions for new bodies within the
DNC, one called the "people of faith" group and the other open to veterans and
military families. But apparently fearing potential divisions at the preliminary
discussions, DNC officials closed both meetings to  reporters, angering some DNC
members.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              179 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 5, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Uses Inspiration to Drive Business

SECTION: Financial; D02

LENGTH: 288 words


When political strife drove Carlos Devis and his family from his native Colombia
five years ago, he left behind a career as a lawyer for the role of an outsider.
As he built a new life in Potomac, he found many other foreign-born Latinos in
the area struggling to make it in their new country.

Many of them were working hard but were unhappy, Devis said.

Immigrating "is a very emotionally distressing situation, and nobody tells you
how to work through that," Devis said. "You feel that you don't have value, and
then people just start working. They don't educate themselves. They are not
involved in their children's schools. They have three jobs."

He turned that understanding into a company called Bosa Systems that is
dedicated to inspiring Latino immigrants and Latino Americans. His
District-based company runs a Web site (www.clubpositivo.com), sells
Spanish-language compact discs and sends out weekly e-mails to more than 280,000
people. The Web site includes stories of hope, such as one about a boy with an
alcoholic father who overcame odds to achieve success, and offers philosophical
classics, including  Kahlil Gibran's "The Prophet," translated into Spanish. The
site is decorated with happy faces and its slogan is "En ti no hay límites "  --
"You have no limits."

Last year, Devis sold about 10,000 CDs for about $15 each.

This month, Devis won a national online competition of Hispanic business owners
called "El Visionario," or the Visionary, sponsored by AOL Latino and Ford Motor
Co. Devis won a Mercury Mountaineer, $25,000 in cash and $25,000 in legal and
marketing services.

He said he plans to use the money to build his company and "remind more Latinos
to dream big."

-- Krissah Williams

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              180 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Metro;
In Brief

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 1045 words


THE REGION

The Washington-Baltimore region's immigrant population has grown by more than
400,000 since 2000, according to a study of census figures released yesterday.
The region's residents now include 1.3 million immigrants, who make up 16.4
percent of the population.

The report from the Center for Immigration Studies, which is based on a Census
Bureau household survey in March, said Maryland and Virginia are among the
states with the largest increase in immigration in recent years.

The study said Maryland has 725,000 foreign-born residents, or 13.1 percent of
the population. Virginia has 719,000 immigrants, or 9.7 percent of the
population. Immigrant numbers in both states have more than doubled in the past
decade.

The District has 74,000 immigrants, or 13.5 percent of the population. The
number of immigrants in Washington grew by more than a third in the past decade,
even as the city's overall population dipped, census estimates show.

The top Washington representative of a Saudi-based charity has been deported
after the man pleaded guilty to immigration fraud, U.S. authorities said
yesterday.

Abdullah Alnoshan, 44, an Alexandria resident, was sent back to Saudi Arabia
over the weekend, according to a statement from Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. He had served as director of the Muslim World League office in
Falls Church, which came under scrutiny for possible ties to terrorism
financing. It has not been charged with a crime and has denied improper actions.

FBI and ICE agents assigned to the local Joint Terrorism Task Force raided that
office in July after detaining Alnoshan on charges that he put false information
on his application for a work visa. He pleaded guilty Nov. 22.

THE DISTRICT

The D.C. Transportation Department will hold two public meetings this week to
discuss possible changes to the 11th Street bridges, two one-way spans over the
Anacostia River that connect the Southeast-Southwest and Anacostia freeways.

The agency is studying how to revamp the bridges and roadways to increase access
to and from the Anacostia and Navy Yard neighborhoods.

The first meeting is scheduled for 6:30 tonight at the Anacostia Professional
Building, 2041 Martin Luther King Jr. Ave. SE. The second is set for 6:30 p.m.
tomorrow at Tyler Elementary School, 1001 G St. SE.

For more information, call the Transportation Department at 202-671-4607 or go
to www.11thstreetbridgeseis.com.

MARYLAND

U.S. Senate candidate Kweisi Mfume announced key endorsements yesterday from
members of Baltimore's legislative delegation and City Council.

With Maryland Senate Majority Leader Nathaniel J. McFadden (D) at his side,
Mfume welcomed support from an array of black politicians, many of whom had
backed him in Congress. Mfume, a Democrat, represented Baltimore on Capitol Hill
before becoming president of the NAACP.

Mfume, whose bid for Senate has been slow to gain momentum, compared his
campaign to the "little red engine that could." He said the campaign has raised
$400,000. One of his Democratic opponents, U.S. Rep. Benjamin L. Cardin, said
last night that he expects to have raised more than $2 million by the next
reporting period, in January.

Among those endorsing Mfume last night were state Sens. Lisa A. Gladden and
Ralph M. Hughes and Dels. Talmadge Branch, Clarence Davis and Hattie N.
Harrison, all Democrats.

Mfume is one of several candidates competing for the Democratic nomination in
next year's race for the seat being vacated by Paul S. Sarbanes. Lt. Gov.
Michael S. Steele is expected to win the Republican nomination, and independent
Kevin Zeese is running as well.

A defense attorney who was fined $10 after challenging a judge's order in Anne
Arundel County Circuit Court won a measure of vindication when a three-judge
panel lifted the fine and rebuked the judge.

The panel, in a Friday ruling, said Judge Paul Goetzke acted outside the law and
abused his power in ordering the sanction against Drew Cochran and the teenager
he represented. The client was accused of loading marbles into a paintball gun
and pelting a passing car. The case appeared headed toward settlement in March,
with the youth agreeing to pay $500 in restitution.

Goetzke signed off on the agreement but added an additional $250 in restitution.
Cochran filed a request asking the judge to stick to the settlement terms.
Goetzke rejected the request and fined Cochran and his client $10, payable to a
court library fund.

Cochran appealed. The panel restored the original restitution amount and erased
the sanction, saying attorneys should not be punished for conscientiously
representing their clients.

VIRGINIA

A study released yesterday by the General Assembly's investigative agency found
that the state Department of Education properly awarded a $139 million
standardized-testing contract, despite a price tag $35 million higher than the
losing bidder's.

The Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission conducted the study at the
request of Del. Vincent F. Callahan Jr. (R-Fairfax), chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee, who expressed concerns about the cost and scoring
mistakes that the winning bidder, Pearson Educational Measurement, had made in
other states.

Justin Brown, a commission analyst who presented the report, said the Education
Department correctly followed state contract procurement procedures to develop a
request for proposals for administration, scoring and reporting of the Standards
of Learning tests. But he added that there was a lack of documentation of the
scoring process and a concern that the process doesn't properly consider a
contract's proposed cost.

Pearson won the contract over Harcourt Assessment, which had held it since 1998.
Pearson, starting in October, will be in charge of developing the SOL tests and
scoring and reporting the results.

"Go to school, but you can't carry supplies

to and from."

--  D.C. Superior Court Judge Lynn Leibovitz, keeping in place a ban on
transporting art supplies imposed on graffiti vandal John Tsombikos, known as
Borf, who pleaded guilty to destruction of property.  --  A1

Compiled from reports by staff writers D'Vera Cohn, Matthew Mosk, Eric Rich,
Mary Beth Sheridan and Debbi Wilgoren and the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              181 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Pushes Apart GOP, Chamber

BYLINE: Jeffrey H. Birnbaum, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1076 words


The House Republican leadership and the nation's business lobby, usually close
allies, are battling each other over the issue of immigration.

In a rare schism, employer groups led by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are
pressing to kill a Republican-sponsored measure that would require businesses to
verify that all of their workers are in the United States legally and would
increase penalties for hiring illegal employees.

Lobby groups including the chamber, the National Restaurant Association and the
Associated General Contractors of America are so vehement in their opposition
that they will consider lawmakers' votes on the bill a key measure of whether
they will support them in the future.

Still, acting House majority leader Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) appears to welcome the
chance to disagree with his normal confederates. "Congressman Blunt sees no
problem with being in a different place from the chamber on this legislation,"
said Burson Taylor, a spokeswoman for Blunt.

The immigration debate comes as lawmakers are facing rising public criticism for
their cozy relationships with lobbyists. Recent scandals have led to one
lawmaker's resignation for taking bribes and to the investigation of several
others. The atmosphere has given a leg up in the immigration fight to the
faction of House Republicans that has long been wary of its party's ties to
business lobbyists. The vote is scheduled for tomorrow.

Republican leaders assert that the measure is an overdue effort to improve
border security and to protect jobs by ensuring that only workers with
legitimate documentation are eligible to be employed. The bill would phase in
for all employers a program in which businesses would be required to check
names, Social Security numbers and dates of birth against government records to
verify that their workers can work legally. Fines for knowingly hiring an
undocumented worker would also be increased. As for the workers, those in this
country illegally could be charged with a felony.

The business groups contend that the verification system, which has only been
tried in experimental form, is too mistake-prone to give employers accurate
results. They worry that, as a result, companies might be subjected to steep and
misapplied penalties because of faulty computer readouts, and that individuals
might have their working status jeopardized and their private backgrounds
scrutinized needlessly.

"There's a huge chasm between us and big business," said Will Adams, a spokesman
for Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a leader of the 90 or so House members who want
a get-tough approach to illegal immigration. "They're addicted to cheap labor,
which illegal aliens provide. It's in their interests to keep the border porous
and to keep the labor flowing."

Business groups deny that they want illegal or free-flowing immigration.
Instead, they would accept some extra verification of new employees.

They also would like a broader measure that would give workers legal status or
at least allow them to stay and work in this country  --  a provision the House
legislation now lacks.

But lobbyists acknowledge that the Republican bill, which emerged from committee
last week, has been moving so quickly that they might not have enough time to
stop it. "This whole thing has been compressed," said Randy Johnson, the
chamber's vice president for labor and immigration. "We're doing the best we can
in a bad situation."

The situation is the reverse of typical practice. The chamber and like-minded
trade associations have for years been carefully clued in early about a wide
range of activities in Congress and the Bush administration.

The information often came to them during regularly scheduled meetings with
lawmakers and their top aides. The closed-door sessions enabled them to work
closely with Republicans to help fund and provide foot soldiers for a string of
pro-business successes ranging from tax cuts to free-trade agreements.

This time many of the same industry organizations are writing angry letters,
deploying lobbyists and ginning up e-mails, phone calls and faxes from their
members across the country to protest the Republican immigration bill. Among the
groups complaining about the House bill is Americans for Tax Reform, the
conservative association led by Grover G. Norquist, who is one of the
Republicans' most loyal advocates.

In a letter to congressmen last week, Norquist criticized the immigration
measure because it "probably creates unworkable hardships on the private sector,
as well as raising significant privacy concerns for all Americans." In a
separate letter, R. Bruce Josten, executive vice president of the chamber,
expressed "disappointment" in the bill.

Business interests and congressional Republicans have sometimes differed in
recent years, but usually on relatively minor matters. The chamber doesn't want
every aspect of the USA Patriot Act to be extended for example, and Republican
leaders have been reluctant to extend terrorism reinsurance legislation, which
is a top priority of several corporate groups.

But those disputes haven't produced the kind of showdown that is threatening in
the House this week. Lobbyists reached yesterday couldn't remember the last time
that prominent business groups listed a vote against the Republican leadership
as a "key vote" determining their organizations' view of a lawmaker's record.

Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Calif.), a former restaurateur and Chamber of Commerce
member, believes the business groups are out of sync with public opinion.
"There's a little disconnect here between some of the [business] leaders in the
Washington, D.C., area versus the folks out here in the country who recognize we
have a problem," he said.

"It's just one issue trumping another issue," agreed Rep. Michael N. Castle
(R-Del.) "The whole issue of reining in illegal immigration is more significant
than accommodating business concerns." He added that he did not think the guilty
plea of former representative Randy "Duke" Cunningham (R-Calif.) or other
lobbying-related scandals recently have anything to do with the spat.

In the meantime, corporate organizations will be pushing to defeat the basic
Republican bill or to amend it in ways that add a guest worker program or ease
its verification and penalty requirements. They also will be looking to the
Senate for a comprehensive measure that is more to their liking.

"It's not over till it's over," Josten said.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              182 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Unions and Border Agency Still Battling Over When to Bargain

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: Metro; B02 , FEDERAL DIARY Stephen Barr

LENGTH: 648 words


For the past three years, federal unions and Customs and Border Protection have
been in a tussle over shift schedules and work assignments.

The unions believe that the CBP, one of the largest bureaus in the Department of
Homeland Security, should negotiate over issues that were the subject of
previous collective bargaining agreements. The CBP disagrees, saying the
authority to assign employees is critical to its ability to deploy qualified
people along the nation's borders and at ports of entry.

The dispute flared again this month when an arbitrator ruled that the CBP should
bargain with union locals on such issues as shift hours, overtime and
communications with employees on grievances and personnel policies.

The ruling came in a case brought by American Federation of Government Employees
Local 1917 on behalf of CBP employees at New York's John F. Kennedy
International Airport. They are mostly legacy employees from the old Immigration
and Naturalization Service and are covered by a contract negotiated by the
Justice Department in 2000.

"We see it as a big win because CBP has been running roughshod over locals,"
said Stephen Weekes, the AFGE local president.

Lynn Hollinger, a CBP spokeswoman, said the agency's management "is concerned at
the potential negative effect of the decision on its continuing efforts to meet
the 'one face at the border' objective"  --  part of a reorganization that has
consolidated the jobs of immigration, customs and agriculture inspectors and put
them under one chain of command at ports of entry.

CBP port directors "need consistent shift schedules for their officers and the
authority to manage work assignments as circumstances require in order to
flexibly support our mission to protect the country against terrorist threats,"
Hollinger said in a statement.

During the debate over how best to structure the department, President Bush said
the administration did not want to bargain over work assignments. In an October
2002 speech in Bangor, Maine, Bush said that negotiations with unions take too
long and that "I need the right to be able to put the right people at the right
place at the right time to protect America."

Federal unions agree that agency managers have the authority to act immediately
in emergency situations without regard to contracts, and the unions point out
that managers have such flexibility under current labor law.

But the administration has contended that some situations may be critical
without meeting the definition of emergency. The administration fears some
managers might be hesitant to act.

The CBP contends that the AFGE's contract and other labor agreements have been
overridden by a presidential directive and by a national policy on assigning
inspectors that was issued in 2001. That stance has prompted dozens of
grievances from the AFGE, said Enid Doggett, the union's spokeswoman. The
National Treasury Employees Union, which also represents CBP officers, has
challenged the agency for refusing to negotiate over work assignments.

Hollinger said the CBP has prevailed in the majority of cases. One of the cases
is on appeal in federal court, the NTEU said.

The CBP has put the legacy immigration inspectors and former customs officials
on similar shift schedules, thinking that uniformity would improve morale and
reduce turnover, Weekes said. But he said immigration inspectors at JFK Airport
do not believe they have received fair treatment in the consolidation of duties
under the "one face" initiative.

"It's really hard to teach an old dog new tricks," Weekes acknowledged, but he
faulted Homeland Security officials for "not listening to the employees on the
ground and asking them how can this work."

Please join me for an online discussion of federal employee and retiree issues
at noon today on Federal Diary Live at www.washingtonpost.com.

E-mail: barrs@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              183 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Desert Samaritans Stand by Duty;
Move to Outlaw Aid for Immigrants Called Contrary to Bible

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 630 words


When Tim Holt spotted Maria Rabanales of El Salvador lying still in the Arizona
desert this summer, he believed he had a God-given duty to save her.

He forced water through the woman's swollen jaws and poured ice down her shirt.
Border Patrol agents later took Rabanales to a hospital, where she was revived.

Holt was praised by Humane Borders, sponsored by First Christian Church of
Tucson, where he is a volunteer. But his actions that June day might soon be
considered a crime, punishable by up to five years in prison or property
forfeiture, if a Republican-sponsored bill that passed the House  along partisan
lines on Friday becomes law.

The bill  --  endorsed by the Bush administration though it would have preferred
a more comprehensive bill with a guest-worker program  --  would make it a crime
to assist undocumented immigrants who enter or attempt to enter the United
States illegally.  It has sent a chill through church organizations that help
migrants in the belief that they are carrying out the will of God.

"The overriding biblical mandate is to care for the stranger or the alien
because that stranger or alien might very well be God," said Joan M. Maruskin,
the Washington representative for the Church World Service Immigration and
Refugee Program.

"I think it is most unfortunate that an administration that has developed a
faith-based office would be in support of a piece of legislation that is
diametrically opposed to the biblical teaching that mandates the care of the
alien."

Rosemary Jenks, director of government relations for NumbersUSA, an opponent of
mass immigration, said churches are interpreting the bill too literally. She
said that other than stiffer penalties, the wording is not much different from
current law.

"People aren't going to be prosecuted for providing life-giving care," Jenks
said. "It's what they do after providing that care. If they take them back to
their church and harbor them, then that's a problem. It would really have to be
an outrageous act to be prosecuted."

Some conservative evangelical groups that generally support  Republican policies
declined to comment on whether the legislation was in conflict with their
mission. Richard Cizik, a spokesman for the National Association of
Evangelicals, said that the group does not usually take a stand on immigration
issues and that he did not feel comfortable commenting.

World Relief, an arm of the  evangelical association,  posted on its Web site an
interfaith statement made at an October hearing of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

The statement called for the type of comprehensive immigration change  that is
missing from the bill, including a temporary worker program for migrants; the
"creation of legal avenues for workers and their families who wish to migrate to
the U.S."; and opportunities "for hard-working immigrants who are already
contributing to this country to come out of the shadows" with an option "to . .
. eventually become United States citizens."

In Arizona, where immigrants cross the desert each year by the thousands and die
in the hundreds,  groups  such as Humane Borders and No More Deaths try to save
some.

About the penalties for helping that the House passed, Stuart Taylor, co-pastor
of St. Mark's Presbyterian Church in Tucson, a founding member of No More
Deaths, said, "We think such legislation would be a very dangerous precedent, a
government trying to make it illegal to do the right thing."

Two volunteers at No More Deaths, Shanti Sellz and Daniel Strauss, were arrested
by Border Patrol agents near Arivaca, Ariz., while taking three illegal
immigrants to a distress center.

"People of faith and conscience will continue . . . because that is the nature
of our faith and our moral duty," Taylor said.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              184 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 18, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

In U.S., There's Gold in Goats;
Immigrants Boost Demand for Meat

BYLINE: Olivia Munoz, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, Calif.


At the Rincon Salvaldoreno, a restaurant where Central American immigrants
gather at the end of the workday for a taste of home, goat stew is a brisk
seller.

Demand for birria, as it is known, sometimes surpasses menudo, the popular
Mexican tripe soup traditionally served on Sundays.

"It's a hard meat to get at the store sometimes, so people buy it here already
cooked," waitress Maribel Bernal said. "We make it every day."

As the nation's foreign-born population has grown, so has consumption of the
tough, gamy meat popular in  Latin American, Caribbean and Muslim communities.
There are  about 2 million goats raised in the United States for meat, but the
domestic market could support a herd of 15 million,  said Marvin Shurley,
president of the American Meat Goat Association.

"We have way more consumers than we have goats available," said Shurley, a Texas
goat rancher. Texas is the leading goat-producing state, followed by Tennessee
and California.

Rancher Judy Kaye saw the opportunity in the burgeoning market and got into the
business in 1997 as the taste for goat was taking off. The number of people
raising goats jumped 19.5 percent from 1997 to 2002, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.

Now Kaye has 300 meat goats at her White Rail Ranch south of Porterville, which
she sells mostly to small ethnic stores. But she cannot meet the demand, and she
has been helping other ranchers switch to goats or add them to their herds of
sheep and cows.

California's goat herd grew to about 100,000 this year from about 61,000 in
2002, according to the USDA.

The market is expected to continue growing. According to Texas A&M researcher
Frank Craddock, demand for goat meat will increase 40 percent by 2007. Thus,
most American goat farmers aren't worried about the approximately 18 million
tons of imported goat meat from Australia and New Zealand, Shurley said.

Although the meat that comes from overseas is cheap, U.S. farmers have a ready
market in communities that know their goat and prefer it fresh, said Robert
Swize, executive director of the American Boer Goat Association. The Boer is the
leading breed used for meat.

Bob Labrucherie, an agriculture teacher at Madera High School, is betting on
goat meat's increasing popularity. He added the animals to the school's farm
when he saw that the number of goats shown at the state fair had doubled from
last year.

He said goats are easy to get started with because they  require only a small
area. Farmers can raise about 10 to 15 goats in an acre, and goats require less
equipment than other livestock. Also, goats have about three births in two
years, compared with one birth a year for cows.

Although the industry has grown a lot recently, farmers  face  challenges. It's
still difficult to find goat-specific feed and veterinarians specialized in
treating the animals, Kaye said.

Other obstacles remain, as well, according to Carrie Robins, a sophomore in
Madera High School's agriculture class.

"The goats are fun and playful," she said. "I can't imagine eating them, but I
guess a whole lot of people do."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              185 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 30, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Manassas's War on Immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; A26

LENGTH: 762 words


"Ours is by no means a tradition limited to respect for the bonds uniting the
members of the nuclear family. The tradition of uncles, aunts, cousins, and
especially grandparents sharing a household along with parents and children has
roots equally venerable and equally deserving of constitutional recognition.
Over the years millions of our citizens have grown up in just such an
environment, and most, surely, have profited from it."

--  Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., Moore v. City of East Cleveland, Ohio (1977)

WRITING FOR the Supreme Court, Justice Powell sensibly struck down a singularly
ludicrous municipal attempt to define family living arrangements so strictly
that it would criminalize a grandmother's choice to live with her grandson. Now
comes the city of Manassas with an equally outrageous zoning ordinance. Under
the guise of upholding standards in its pristine neighborhoods, it would outlaw
households consisting of a family's cousins, uncles, aunts, nieces and nephews.
Quite aside from the law's probable unconstitutionality, it is patently bigoted.

Like other suburban localities in this region, Manassas is undergoing a
demographic shift as Hispanic immigrants, legal and undocumented, move into what
were once relatively homogenous neighborhoods. Some of the immigrants share
housing with their relatives to help out with the rent or mortgage  --  the sort
of arrangement that the late Justice Powell, a proud Virginian, would recognize
as part of the striving that constitutes the American dream. Some communities
are welcoming, others less so; in Manassas, city officials decided that the best
way to deal with the immigrants was to harass them.

In an act of Big Brotherish government intrusion, they changed a zoning law to
redefine family units suitable for cohabitation  --  and to exclude uncles,
aunts and others they deem as undesirables. To enforce their decree, Manassas
authorities are sending inspectors into selected city households to interrogate
hard-working people about the numbers and relationships of the inhabitants.

Ostensibly, the city's purpose is to address problems of crowding, parking and
garbage arising from overlarge households. But don't be fooled. Large Anglo
families whose grown, live-at-home children might all park on the street or
overstuff the garbage bins have nothing to fear. Rather, city inspectors charged
with enforcing the new law are responding to complaints, and the complaints are
almost invariably about Hispanics households  --  not necessarily ones that are
overcrowded. In the law's conception and enforcement, there is blatant racial
skewing. The idea in changing the law's definition of a family was "to make sure
these peripheral people start to be winnowed out," Brian Smith, the city's chief
building official, told The Post.

Leave aside the fact that America was founded by people then considered
"peripheral," and that equally "peripheral people"  --  immigrants  --  have
fought its wars, built its railways, populated its greatest cities and manned
its mightiest industries. From the grousing of Manassas officials, you'd think
that the city's immigrant families were living in rowdy boarding houses,
sleeping in their dozens by shifts, making a nuisance of themselves and
besmirching the neighborhoods; if that were the case, Manassas would have a
legitimate interest in taking action. In fact, as The Post's Stephanie McCrummen
reported, the homes targeted by Manassas inspectors are neither untidy nor
unruly nor particularly crowded; an inspector's scrutiny might be drawn by eight
people living in a five-bedroom house, hardly an instance of acute overcrowding.

Already, in a case vividly chronicled by Ms. McCrummen, the city's persecution
of Hispanic immigrants has compelled Leyla and Juan Chavez, U.S. citizens who
came to this country in the 1980s, to decide to leave the area. Their offense?
Housing a nephew, as well as a renter couple who lived downstairs. The Chavez
household and its ilk do not threaten the safety of Manassas's neighborhoods,
nor its morals, nor "the strong spirit of our city," as Mayor Douglas S. Waldron
(R) stated in a letter in the fall to Gov. Mark R. Warner (D). They simply
represent a wave of demographic change, one of many that have defined and
redefined America from its founding. If that offends some older residents' sense
of propriety, tough. America was built on diversity, and to mount a campaign of
harassment against it, as Manassas has done, dishonors the nation's immigrant
tradition as well as constitutional protections.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              186 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 31, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Man Accused Of Document Fraud;
Cook Arrested in Sting, Police Say

BYLINE: Ernesto Londono, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 545 words


A cook at a naval facility in West Bethesda was arrested this month for
allegedly selling a fake Social Security card and an immigration document to a
police officer posing as an undocumented Panamanian.

Montgomery County police charged Wenceslao Ramos-Andrade, 31, of Hyattsville,
with sale of a false identification card, possession of fraudulent government
documents and forgery of a public document. All the charges are misdemeanors.

Fake documents for immigrants have long been a problem, said a police spokesman,
Lt. Eric Burnett.

"Unfortunately, the technology has gotten so much better in this country that it
has become more difficult to determine which documents are real," Burnett said.

Ramos-Andrade was arrested Dec. 21 and released that day on $10,000 bail, police
said. Attempts to reach Ramos-Andrade, who was a civilian worker at the
Carderock division of the Naval Surface Warfare Center, were unsuccessful.

The arrest came after a joint investigation by detectives from the Montgomery
police fraud section and investigators at the Naval Criminal Investigative
Service. Investigators set up a sting after learning that Ramos-Andrade sold
fake documents to unauthorized immigrants, according to a statement of probable
cause filed as part of his arrest. The document gives this outline of the case:

On Nov. 29, a police officer from Naval District Washington called
Ramos-Andrade, identified himself under an assumed name, Israel Martinez, and
asked about buying fake documents.

Ramos-Andrade offered to sell him a Social Security card and a resident alien
card for $300. They agreed to meet the next day in the parking lot of White
Flint Mall. When the men met, the price for the documents dropped to $247. The
officer gave Ramos-Andrade the cash and two passport-size photographs.
Ramos-Andrade said the documents would be ready in three days.

The officer asked Ramos-Andrade whether the documents could be used to open a
bank account. Ramos-Andrade said yes.

Federal agents photographed the meeting and trailed Ramos-Andrade to two
addresses in Hyattsville. On Dec. 3 agents gathered at White Flint Mall, this
time in front of a Dave and Buster's restaurant. Ramos-Andrade handed the
officer a small envelope with the documents. The officer told Ramos-Andrade he
had nine additional prospective clients.

Ramos-Andrade showed the officer a resident alien card with Ramos-Andrade's
photo and said that type of fake document, which cost $450, is so reliable "that
if the barcode on one of those resident alien cards is scanned it will come up
with correct information," according to the charging document. Some resident
alien cards, which in the past didn't have bar codes, have been enhanced
recently to foil counterfeiters.

The officer told Ramos-Andrade that he knew a couple of Arab men who wanted U.S.
passports. Ramos-Andrade told him he could get the passports, along with
driver's licenses, but would need more time, the document says.

Law enforcement officials have focused more on fake identification documents
since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Burnett said.

"I'm not saying that every person who is illegal is a criminal," he said, "but
there are those who are trying to get their documents with a criminal intent in
mind."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              187 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Farewell to The Expert On Borders

BYLINE: Douglas Doan

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 767 words


Rep. Jim Kolbe (R-Ariz.) recently announced that he would not seek re-election
after serving 11 terms in Congress. His quiet announcement was barely covered in
the national media, which is a real pity. His leadership, especially on issues
of immigration and border security, will be sorely missed.

Consider, for example, the immigration bill recently passed by Congress with
much sound and fury. This bill has only one idea: to muscle up on more
enforcement along our borders. The sad fact is that we have already tried this.
During the past 15 years, we have more than quadrupled the number of border
patrol agents. We have invested billions in new security with only marginal
success.

Kolbe, who said the bill "pretends we are doing something to secure our border
when in fact we are doing nothing except throw words and money at the problem,"
was one of the few in Congress to have thought through the problem and develop a
much more coherent approach. His candor and honest reflection made him unpopular
to some, but his leadership and insights were exactly what the nation needed.

I met Jim Kolbe eight years ago when working on developing technology to improve
border security along the Arizona-Mexico border. He had spent a great deal of
time and research on immigration and border security, making him one of the most
well-informed elected officials on these difficult subjects.

Kolbe understood that the border was a complex economic, social and
international zone that requires a more comprehensive solution than the typical
knee-jerk responses. Year after year, he introduced legislation that featured
stronger border enforcement, a guest worker program, closer cooperation with
Mexico and improved efficiencies for legal commerce. The legislation never
passed.

President Bush has now wisely taken a similar position. He recently announced
(in Kolbe's home town of Tucson) a two-pronged strategy of tougher enforcement
and a guest worker program. He sadly omitted the other two aspects of border
policy that Kolbe understood were critical: the importance of building better
relations with Mexico and the need to make our legal processes for immigration
and cross-border transit more efficient.

We rarely hear about the long and shameful wait of up to five years facing a
person seeking to immigrate legally into the United States, or the legitimate
cross-border business that finds roadblocks at every turn. Kolbe consistently
pushed the government to treat the people caught in this bureaucratic wastelands
with respect. To be sure, he was a strong advocate of tougher border
enforcement, but he knew that enforcement should be only a single component of a
much bigger strategy.

The sad truth is that border officials and the Department of Homeland Security
view Mexico mostly as a hostile entity. They seize few of the opportunities to
work together to solve mutual problems. DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff has
surrounded himself with a bevy of former Justice Department employees that
believe almost exclusively in enforcement. The opportunities to engage Mexico or
the private sector as a real partner on border issues are hardly ever mentioned
by DHS.

The need to promote trade and legal immigration was rarely addressed without
Kolbe's leadership. He pushed through Congress the customs modernization program
that was the single most important program the government has enacted over the
last 10 years to make legal crossings and trade processing across the border
more efficient. While most officials are preoccupied with the militarization of
the border and the role of well-meaning but misguided folks like the Minutemen,
only Kolbe was willing to push specific measures to remove impediments to the
50,000 trucks, 350,000 cars and millions of people that cross the U.S.-Mexican
border each day contributing to almost $750 million in trade daily.

I had the good fortune of working with Kolbe to engage the private sector to
help improve and build additional infrastructure for legitimate trade across the
border. Local tradesmen, small shippers and importers pitched in their own money
to help finance traffic lanes to reduce congestion and lower costs for honest
shippers.

Despite all the federal attention dedicated to border issues, this road at
Nogales, Ariz., is the only new crossing that the U.S. government will
commission over the next five years. On both sides of the border and in
Washington, we will miss Jim Kolbe's leadership.

The writer worked in the Office of the Private Sector at the Department of
Homeland Security before leaving in October.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              188 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 1, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Alito, In and Out of the Mainstream;
Nominee's Record Defies Stereotyping

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein and Sarah Cohen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 2730 words


During 15 years as an appeals court judge, Supreme Court nominee Samuel A. Alito
Jr. has been highly sympathetic to prosecutors, skeptical of immigrants trying
to avoid deportation, and supportive of a lower wall between church and state,
according to an analysis of his record by The Washington Post.

Alito has taken a harder line on criminal and immigration cases than most
federal appellate judges nationwide, including those who, like him, were
selected by Republican presidents, the analysis found.

In civil rights cases, Alito has sided against three of every four people who
claimed to have been victims of discrimination, based on the lawsuits in the
analysis. Such a record is typical of Republican appointees on federal appeals
courts  in discrimination cases, the area of the law in which national studies
show GOP-appointed judges differ most from their Democratic-appointed
counterparts.

Still, in a few areas of the law, Alito's record resembles that of the average
U.S. appellate judge. His decisions on First Amendment cases have been mixed.
And when workers have sued for pay or benefits, he has agreed with them about
half the time.

The analysis, based on a database developed through a review of more than 200
cases Alito helped to decide on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit,
provides a more nuanced glimpse of his ideology than the portrayal by his
supporters and critics. With Senate confirmation hearings scheduled to start
next week, Bush administration officials and conservative allies working to win
Alito's approval say he fits within the judicial mainstream; some Democrats and
liberal advocacy groups trying to defeat his nomination say he is an ideologue.

Neither characterization is completely accurate.

Instead, the analysis, along with interviews  of scholars who study the courts,
shows that Alito takes consistently restrictive stances on some social issues
and criminals' rights but does not differ substantially from the typical judge
in other areas.

Overall, the analysis shows, Alito does not disagree with majority opinions more
frequently than most federal appeals judges do in similar cases. Yet a closer
look finds that he dissents most often in areas where his views are least
typical of the average judge: cases in which he has favored religion and largely
sided against immigrants and one group of convicted criminals: prisoners facing
the death penalty.

"Here is where Alito really takes his stand," said Kenneth L. Manning, a
political scientist at the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth who has
studied the voting behavior of other appellate judges.

Because Supreme Court justices are free to disregard precedent, Alito's
decisions are an imperfect barometer of how he might rule if he succeeds Sandra
Day O'Connor, a pivotal member of the high court. Still, scholars said that his
opinions since joining the  3rd Circuit in 1990 yield important clues, such as
which areas of law he is passionate about, whether he strives for consensus and
how his views align with Supreme Court decisions.

To examine his record, The Post looked at how Alito voted on all 221 cases he
has helped to decide in which the  3rd Circuit  --  which handles appeals from
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and the Virgin Islands  --  issued a divided
ruling. Those cases provide a revealing window to a judge's ideology, judicial
scholars say, because they involve legal issues that are unclear. In that way,
they also are most like the cases the Supreme Court hears, said Donald R.
Songer, a political scientist at the University of South Carolina who studies
appellate courts.

The idea of trying to gauge a judge's ideology from his voting patterns on
different types of cases is unpopular among law professors who prefer to study
legal reasoning case by case. But the method used by The Post is well accepted
among political scientists  --  many of whom clump together votes on types of
cases to determine whether a judge is liberal or conservative, a step The Post
did not take.

The analysis included 34 majority opinions and 55 dissenting ones that Alito
wrote, plus 132 in which he voted but did not put his views in writing.

Overall, the opinions Alito wrote are largely devoid of impassioned rhetoric or
broad philosophical assertions. He grounds his views in close readings of legal
precedents, statutes and government regulations. Of the cases The Post examined,
Alito upheld the rulings of a lower court about half the time, which is typical
of appeals judges nationally.

Routinely, he defers to government officials and others in positions of
authority. He sometimes chastises his fellow judges for what he regards as
overstepping their authority by imposing their own judgments, rather than merely
assessing the legality of actions by prison guards, defense lawyers and
immigration officials being challenged  --  actions he often upholds.

His written opinions often are "very thoughtful, well constructed and well
argued," said Martin H. Redish, a constitutional scholar at Northwestern
University School of Law in Chicago who reviewed several cases in the Post
analysis. At the same time, he said, Alito is "clearly tough-minded . . . having
very little sympathy for those asserting rights against the government."

As Alito's confirmation hearings approach, the debate over his nomination has
escalated to a political brawl. At the core of the partisan fight  is a pair of
memos he wrote two decades ago,  when he was a Justice Department lawyer in the
Reagan administration. In them he made clear that he opposed Roe v. Wade, the
1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion nationwide.

There were two abortion cases in the analysis. Alito voted to restrict abortion
rights in one  --  the well-known Planned Parenthood of Southeastern
Pennsylvania v. Casey, in which the Supreme Court later disagreed with him  --
and voted to protect such rights in the other.

Alito's place in the nation's decades-old abortion wars, the analysis shows, is
not what most defines him as a judge.

In the summer of 1991, Kourtney Kauffman was released against his doctors'
advice after a five-day stay at a psychiatric center in Harrisburg, Pa. Two days
before he was hospitalized, five guns were stolen from a nearby house. Five days
after he got out, Kauffman was arrested while trying to sell four of the weapons
to a firearms dealer.

On his lawyer's advice, he pleaded guilty to illegally possessing the guns and
received a 15-year sentence. A few years later, Kauffman sought to have his
conviction overturned,  arguing that his lawyer had not discussed the
possibility of an insanity defense, even though a psychiatrist who had examined
him the day he was arrested concluded he was "undoubtedly psychotic at the
time."

A U.S. district judge turned Kauffman down, and he appealed. The two 3rd Circuit
judges with whom Alito heard the case  --  like him, appointed by President
George H.W. Bush  --  ordered a new trial for Kauffman. Although a court must be
"highly deferential" to the decisions of a lawyer representing a criminal
defendant, the majority ruled, Kauffman's counsel was inadequate because he had
not investigated his client's history of mental illness or considered an
insanity defense.

Alito disagreed. Because the lawyer had represented Kauffman in the past, Alito
wrote in his dissent, he knew his client well enough to make a "tactical
decision" that a guilty plea was the best course. The court majority, he wrote,
"fails to heed that important admonition" that judges should be reluctant to
second-guess lawyers' conduct.

U.S. v. Kauffman is typical of Alito's perspective on criminal cases. Of 33 such
cases in the analysis, he sided with criminal defendants only three times,
aligning with prosecutors more often than the average GOP-appointed judge in
divided cases. His high rate of favoring the prosecution is nearly identical to
that of the Supreme Court's new chief justice, John G. Roberts Jr., according to
the University of Massachusetts's Manning, who performed a similar analysis of
Roberts's record from his two years on a different federal appeals court.

As in the Kauffman case, Alito voted in two-thirds of the criminal cases to
uphold the rulings of a lower-court judge. His votes in one small group of those
criminal cases  --  four appeals from inmates facing death sentences  --  were
even more consistent. Every time, he voted against sparing the prisoner from
execution. Nationally, federal appeals judges in disputed cases vote to give
relief to prisoners sentenced to death about a third of the time.

Such a record, the University of South Carolina's Songer said, implies that
Alito would behave differently from Justice O'Connor, who has been willing in
recent years to restrict the use of the death penalty.

If Alito's treatment of criminal cases is unusual, his record is more ordinary
in a few other areas. This is particularly true in lawsuits by employees who
claim to have been denied wages, benefits or union rights. Of 19 such cases in
the analysis, Alito voted in favor of workers nearly half the time  --  about
the same as judges nationwide and more often than the average
Republican-appointed judge.

In 1991, his was the sole vote siding with 228 Philippine seamen working on
Kuwaiti oil tankers in the Persian Gulf who alleged that they deserved to be
paid minimum wage under the Fair Labor Standards Act. It was around the time of
the Persian Gulf War, and their ships had temporarily been reflagged under the
U.S. flag because it was dangerous in that region for vessels from neutral
countries.

The court majority ruled the sailors did not deserve the pay because they were
outside U.S. waters and their ships were only temporarily reflagged. Alito
countered that the legislative history of the labor law "makes clear that
Congress intended for the minimum wage requirement to apply to all seamen on all
American vessels."

Alito has been less sympathetic to employees who claim to have been
discriminated against on the basis of race, sex, age or disability, siding
squarely with them in just three of 15 such cases in the analysis. In those and
other discrimination cases, his voting pattern is comparable to the typical
Republican-appointed judge.

He also is similar to other Republican appointees in overall deference to the
government. For example, he agreed with the government position in all but one
of seven cases in which prisoners alleged violations of their rights.

The only kind of case involving the government in which Alito ruled against its
interest most of the time was when companies challenged federal regulations.

His treatment of immigration issues  --  siding one time in eight squarely with
immigrants who were trying to win asylum or block their deportation  --  makes
Alito less sympathetic to immigrants  than most Republican appointees. At a time
when other circuit judges nationwide have criticized as too harsh the reasoning
and conduct of the Board of Immigration Appeals, Alito has displayed "almost
total deference" to the board, said Owen M. Fiss, a Yale Law School professor
who, with 21 Yale faculty and students, has analyzed the more than 400 published
opinions Alito has written.

In the 1994 Tipu v. Immigration and Naturalization Service, two judges with whom
he heard the case  --  both GOP appointees  --  threw out a deportation order
against a Pakistani immigrant convicted on a drug conspiracy charge. The top
administrative board that considers immigrants' appeals, they reasoned, had made
mistakes, ignoring that Mohammed Zafar Tipu had played a minor role in the
conspiracy, received a high school degree while serving a light prison sentence
and cared for an ailing brother.

Alito wanted to uphold the deportation. "The majority has wandered well beyond
the limited scope of appellate review that we are permitted," he wrote in his
dissent. "Whatever else one may think about [the immigration board's] decision,
it was not arbitrary, irrational or contrary to law."

Last year, the 3rd Circuit blocked the deportation of a Korean couple, longtime
residents of the United States who were convicted of a tax violation, concluding
that the crime was not an "aggravated felony" that required them to be removed.
Alito, in a dissent, gave a lengthy interpretation of what he believed Congress
had in mind when it wrote a section of federal immigration law  --  and the
majority chided him, writing that a judge should reach decisions "unaided by
speculation."

Alito has agreed consistently with people who are trying to expand the role of
religion in public life, the analysis shows.

Three cases in the analysis deal with the boundaries between church and state,
and Alito's decisions parallel about a dozen other  --  unanimous  --  cases he
has heard that were not examined by The Post, said Ira C. Lupu, a constitutional
scholar at George Washington University Law School.

Alito's views differ from those of most appellate judges and all the current
members of the Supreme Court, Lupu said, because "he is on the side of whoever
is trying to include or advance a religious message." Alito has taken a narrow
view of the First Amendment's establishment clause, which forbids the government
to sponsor any religion, and an expansive view of its free-exercise clause,
which protects people's rights to worship as they want.

In an establishment-clause case in the analysis, American Civil Liberties Union
of New Jersey ex rel. Lander v. Schundler, Alito wrote a 1999 majority opinion
upholding the constitutionality of a holiday display in front of City Hall in
Jersey City. A lower court had banned the display a few years earlier, when it
featured a Hanukkah menorah and a Christmas tree. Two weeks later, the city put
it back up with changes, adding a large plastic Santa Claus, Frosty the Snowman,
a red sled and Kwanzaa symbols.

Alito said the secular additions "demystified" the religious symbols and made
the display legal. In a dissent, Judge Richard Lowell Nygaard, a Reagan
appointee, wrote that the "addition of a few small token secular objects is not
enough to constitutionally legitimate the modified display."

In a free-exercise case, Alito sided with a boy named Zachary Hood in Medford,
N.J., who, as a kindergartner, made a poster on which he had drawn a picture of
Jesus as an example of something he was thankful for. In first grade, when
allowed to bring a book to read to class, he brought "The Beginner's Bible:
Timeless Children's Stories."

The court's majority ruled in favor of the school system and teachers, who
removed the boy's poster from a wall and forbade him to read the Bible stories
to his class. Alito dissented, writing that "discriminatory treatment of the
poster because of its 'religious theme' would violate the First Amendment." He
reasoned that "public school students have the right to express religious views
in class discussion or in assigned work, provided that their expression falls
within the scope of the discussion or the assignment."

Alito has greater sympathy for First Amendment rights when it comes to religion
than other free-speech issues. Of six First Amendment cases in the analysis that
did not involve religion, he voted to uphold such rights once.

Last February, for instance,  he helped to decide a class-action lawsuit by
inmates in a unit of a Pittsburgh prison set aside for especially violent
prisoners. Inmates in the unit were not allowed to have newspapers, magazines or
photographs  --  and they sued, alleging the rule violated their free-speech
rights.

The court's majority found the ban unconstitutional. Alito disagreed. Citing a
precedent that "instructs courts to extend considerable deference to judgments
of correctional officials," he wrote that the prison officials were reasonable
in believing the restrictions might deter other inmates from misbehaving  --
and that the segregated prisoners did not face absolute restrictions, because
they could get around the ban by improving their behavior enough to get out of
the unit. In November, the Supreme Court decided that it will hear the case.

Staff writers Jeffrey H. Birnbaum, Charles Lane and Christopher Lee; research
editor Lucy Shackelford; researcher Madonna Lebling; and research database
editor Derek Willis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              189 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 5, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Appointments Avert Senate Battles

BYLINE: Thomas B. Edsall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 490 words


President Bush yesterday made a raft of controversial recess appointments,
including Julie L. Myers to head the Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau
at the Department of Homeland Security, in a maneuver circumventing the need for
approval by the Senate.

Myers, a niece of former Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman Richard B. Myers and the
wife of the chief of staff to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff,  had
been criticized by Republicans and Democrats who charged that she lacked
experience in immigration matters.

Myers's nomination faced a bruising and potentially embarrassing fight on the
Senate floor, where Democrats were prepared to argue that politics, not merit,
drove her selection for an important job preventing terrorists and weapons from
entering the country.

Bush appointed Tracy A. Henke as executive director of the Office of State and
Local Government Coordination and Preparedness. She had been accused in her
politically appointed post at the Justice Department of demanding that
information about racial disparities in police treatment of blacks in traffic
cases be deleted from a news release.

The president avoided an abortion rights battle with the recess appointment of
former Maryland Republican gubernatorial candidate  Ellen R. Sauerbrey as
assistant secretary of state for population, refugees and migration. Sauerbrey
is an opponent of abortion rights.

For the Federal Election Commission, Bush picked Justice Department employee and
former Fulton County, Ga., Republican chairman Hans von  Spakovsky for one of
three openings. Von Spakovsky is widely viewed as a key player in two disputed
Justice Department decisions to overrule career staff in voting rights cases.

A Democratic vacancy will be filled by union lawyer Robert D. Lenhard. He has
provoked opposition because of his participation as an attorney for the American
Federation of State, Council and Municipal Employees in efforts to have the
Supreme Court rule that the 2002 McCain-Feingold law is  unconstitutional. Sen.
John McCain (R-Ariz.) indicated that he would fight the Lenhard nomination when
Democratic leaders first announced it in 2003.

McCain and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass) issued statements critical of the
appointments. Von Spakovsky may have undermined "enforcement of our civil rights
laws," Kennedy said. "By appointing  von Spakovsky, the White House missed an
opportunity to fill this important position with a person clearly committed to
these fundamental rights."

The other FEC appointment went to Nevada lawyer Steven T. Walther, who has close
ties to Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.).

At the Pentagon, Bush granted recess appointments to Gordon R. England as deputy
secretary of defense and Dorrance Smith, a former ABC producer, as assistant
secretary for public affairs.

The recess appointments will end at the conclusion of the current congressional
session in January 2007.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              190 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 6, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Cleveland Imam to Leave the Country

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: DETROIT Jan. 5


A Cleveland imam convicted of hiding terrorist ties has agreed to leave the
United States, ending his deportation case, his attorney and government
officials said Thursday.

The agreement allows Fawaz Damra to resettle in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates,
Sudan, Egypt or the Palestinian territories, said Greg Gagne, a spokesman for
the Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration Review.

A judge has approved the agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which will decide his destination.

Damra is still in federal custody, said Robert Birach, a Detroit lawyer who
negotiated for him. He declined to offer more details.

Damra, spiritual leader of the Islamic Center of Cleveland, is Palestinian-born.
He was convicted in 2004 of concealing ties to alleged terrorist groups when he
applied for U.S. citizenship in 1994. He served two months in prison and lost
his U.S. citizenship.

Damra's conviction for naturalization fraud was not enough to warrant his
deportation because he has legally lived in the United States for five years.

Immigration officials sought to remove him on charges that he had raised funds
for terrorist organizations.

In Damra's 2004 trial, prosecutors showed video footage of him and other Islamic
leaders raising money for an arm of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, which has
been listed by the State Department as a terrorist group since 1989.

Haider Alawan, a Damra supporter and member of the Islamic Center of Cleveland's
council of elders, said Damra could not afford to fight his case any further.

"He's resolved to the fact that you'd have to have unlimited resources to prove
his innocence," Alawan said. "How far can you go without putting the family in a
bad situation?"

Damra has a wife and three American-born daughters.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              191 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Chinese Artisans Denied Visas for Garden Work

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: SAN MARINO, Calif. Jan. 7


A plan to build a large, classical Chinese garden at the Huntington Library is
in jeopardy because U.S. immigration officials have denied visas to 13 Chinese
stonemasons needed to assemble ornate bridges and pavilions.

The artisans were expected to arrive this month to help create the first phase
of the 12-acre garden. But the government refused to grant visas in September
because it did not consider the project an important cultural exchange program,
library officials said.

"We'll have to close the project if we can't get them here," said Steven Koblik,
president of the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens east
of Los Angeles. The artisans have chiseled stone bridges and pavilions in China
and were to spend several weeks assembling the pieces around a recently
excavated lake.

The garden is important because a venue is needed to explain Chinese history and
culture to Americans as China emerges as a global economic and political power,
Koblik said.

The Huntington case is an example of an ongoing problem U.S. cultural
institutions face in trying to obtain travel visas for foreign artists since the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Applications for cultural, arts or sports
visas have had to pass through more screening because of security concerns.

Last year, 1,972 cultural exchange visas were approved, said Laura Tischler, a
spokeswoman for the Bureau of Consular Affairs, a division of the State
Department. Tischler said she did not know how many applications were rejected
because in many instances the refusals are overturned.

"Globally speaking, we issue well over 80 percent of the visa applications
received," she said.

When the Portland Classical Chinese Garden was created  in 1999, up to 90
Chinese artisans arrived in  Oregon to help build arching bridges and gateways,
said the garden's executive director, Gloria Lee.

"That was another era," Lee said. Last year, applications to bring six Chinese
musicians to perform at the garden were denied, she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              192 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tiny Malta Is Feeling Pressure of Immigrants;
Many Arrive by Mistake On Voyage From Africa

BYLINE: Robin Pomeroy, Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 982 words

DATELINE: VALLETTA, Malta


More densely populated than Bangladesh, Malta has little room to house illegal
immigrants. Even the newcomers, fleeing to Europe from war and poverty in Africa
and Asia, know the island is approaching a crisis point.

"There are 400,000 people here. The problem is the land isn't enough for the
Maltese, so how about the refugees?" said Mohammed Abdull Osman, a 26-year-old
Somali who like thousands of others landed in Malta in a fishing boat from
Libya.

This year at least 1,800 immigrants have arrived in Malta  --  a rocky outcrop
barely twice the size of Washington, D.C., at 122 square miles.

The wave of migration began in earnest in 2002. Most immigrants land in Malta by
mistake as they try to reach the European mainland on overcrowded wooden fishing
boats or are picked up by Maltese authorities, who have a duty to save lives at
sea.

Just as the new arrivals do not want to be here, many Maltese would rather they
were elsewhere. Critics accuse the conservative government of the former British
colony of having no answers.

"Rational interest would dictate that we should take a stand and make it clear
that Malta is not the dumping ground of the Mediterranean," said Philip Beattie,
the founder of Republican National Alliance, a new anti-immigration, right-wing
movement.

Home Minister Tonio Borg has called on Libya to take back migrants who leave
there by sea, copying a controversial agreement Italy has struck with Tripoli.
He also wants other European Union countries to take some of the immigrants.

Illegal immigration has become a highly charged political and social issue in
southern Europe. The sight of hundreds of Africans trying to scale razor-wire
fences in the Spanish enclave of Ceuta last year underscored the desperation of
people driven by the huge gap between lifestyles in Europe and Africa.

Borg said the illegal immigrants arriving in Malta, many with nothing but the
clothes on their backs, were sapping the island's resources  --  and inflaming
passions.

"What is more worrying is the public reaction," Borg said in a recent interview.
"To us, Africa was just another neighboring continent. Now there are racist
opinions."

Beattie, a 41-year-old economics lecturer at Malta University, led the island's
first protest march against illegal immigration in October. Minor scuffles broke
out with opponents who accused Beattie of racism.

An admirer of Italy's post-fascist National Alliance party, Beattie rejects
accusations that his movement fuels racism. "The people who call us racists are
bigots."

Beattie said Malta should stop patrolling its coastal waters  --  a space of a
250,000 square miles, according to the government  --  and cease rescuing boat
people. He said Libya should also patrol its shores to stop people from leaving.

"If they keep coming, summer after summer after summer, where are we going to
put them?" he said.

Further to the right, and better known in Malta, is Norman Lovell, the leader of
Imperium Europa, a white supremacist group that talks of Malta leading a
"planetary struggle" to save the "White Race" and create a Latin-speaking
European empire.

Beattie distances himself from Lovell's ideas about race but credits him with
raising awareness of the immigration issue.

"I suppose he will go down in history as the first whistle-blower."

Near the docks in Malta's capital, Valletta, a derelict school has been
converted into an "open center" for 400 immigrants, mostly Africans and nearly
all men, who sleep in bunk beds in what used to be classrooms.

A curtain hangs around one bed, providing a measure of privacy. A notice pinned
to it reads: "God bless our home."

What seems an ironic gesture is in fact probably meant in all sincerity  --  the
people living in these cramped rooms are the lucky ones, free to come and go and
seek casual work.

They have survived the crossing from Libya  --  a perilous trip. At least 600
people were killed between June and October while making the voyage, according
to Borg, who said this was a conservative estimate.

After the crossing, most of them spend around 12 months in Malta's detention
camps while their applications for asylum are processed. They live in barracks,
tents or rusty World War II tube-like Nissen huts under heavy military guard.

"They're detained in pretty miserable conditions," said Katrine Camilleri, who
works for the Jesuit Refugee Service, a nongovernmental organization that
provides legal and medical aid at the camps, which journalists are not allowed
to visit.

Camilleri said the system was both punishing and useless. Processing never leads
to deportation because it costs too much, and it is a diplomatic nightmare to
return people with few documents to far-flung countries with no links to Malta,
she said.

"We have a system that, if you are accepted you stay, and if you are rejected
you stay," Camilleri said.

She estimated that 6 percent to 8 percent of the immigrants get refugee status
and about 50 percent are granted humanitarian protection  --  allowing them to
stay on the island, live in the open centers and work  --  usually because they
are from war zones such as Eritrea, the Palestinian territories, Somalia or
Iraq.

If immigrants who make it to the European mainland are caught and identified,
they are sent back to Malta.

"On a human level, I feel extremely sorry for them, but I do understand that in
a country the size of Malta it isn't possible to have everyone staying,"
Camilleri said.

"As long as human rights are respected, people should be returned" to their home
countries, she said.

Osman, the Somali who arrived from Libya and was at the immigrant center, said
he would happily return to his wife and daughter if his country was safe. And he
made light of the risks he had taken.

"In our country, we have the Indian Ocean. The Mediterranean? This is nothing."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              193 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 9, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Rethinking in Manassas

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 352 words


MANASSAS OFFICIALS have acted prudently by suspending enforcement of an
outlandish city zoning law that would prohibit aunts, uncles, cousins  --  even
great-grandparents  --  from living together as a family. In its one-month
lifespan, the law, evidently drafted in haste and with inadequate lawyering, has
had the effect of discriminating almost exclusively against Latino immigrants,
some legal, some not. It has brought Manassas no end of grief and promised more
in the form of lawsuits that the city would probably lose. The best option is
for the City Council to repeal the ordinance.

One may sympathize with the city's plight, widely shared in suburban Washington,
of having to contend with overcrowding, of which immigration may be a
contributing cause. Some Manassas officials said overcrowding was the ill they
tried to address with the law; others, arguably less politic, said the real
problem was illegal immigration. In any case, the solution they settled on was
worse than the problem  --  an ordinance that, by encroaching on families and
their right to privacy, flies in the face of American tradition and probably the
Constitution as well.

The practical effect of the law was visits and interrogations carried out by
city inspectors at homes that were not necessarily overcrowded but were by and
large Hispanic. In at least one case, a family of Hispanic immigrants who are
American citizens felt it had to leave the area because of the law. That
evidently heartened white nationalists and nativists, who cheered the law (and
sneered at immigrants) in ugly Internet postings. Civil libertarians, including
the American Civil Liberties Union of Virginia, were rightly outraged, and
planned to sue.

As the ACLU has noted, the city is within its rights to limit the number of
occupants living under one roof where genuine overcrowding raises health or
safety risks. Manassas officials should be able to fashion a new ordinance that
addresses those legitimate concerns without excluding nieces and nephews from
the city's definition of an acceptable family unit for the purposes of
cohabitation.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              194 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 15, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Scott Smith Age: 39. Res ...

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T04

LENGTH: 233 words


Age: 39.

Residence: South Riding.

Education: BS, industrial engineering, North Carolina State University.

Occupation: President, Global Enterprise Inc.

Elective office/civic activities: Board of directors, Fathers for Virginia and
Dulles South Little League; Compassion Workshop facilitator, McLean Bible
Church; member, Jaycees and nonprofit Project Management Institute.

What do you think is the most urgent problem facing this Senate district?

"Family. This 'New  Republican' emphasizes traditional Republican values through
the lens of family values.  Family encompasses transportation, growth,
employment, education and immigration. Expanding highways creates growth and
traffic. Bringing jobs, even the federal government, closer to home increases
time with loved ones. My children's school can compete with any private school.
Why is not every Virginia school as good as Little River Elementary? Having
worked internationally, married a foreign national, I know immigrants' plight,
tremendous values and ethics. Even my Mayflower forefathers were immigrants; we
are all Americans. I will work vigilantly for Loudoun County, basing decisions
on family."

Why should voters elect you?

"1) I understand the problems we all have.

"2) I can achieve the results we need.

"3) My only interest is to serve the people."

Web site:

None given.

E-mail address:

scottsmith4senate@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              195 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 15, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

College Counselors Target Immigrants;
New Approaches Are Sought to Overcome Students' Cultural Reluctance to Get Help

BYLINE: Cara Anna, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A19

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.


Janie Cisneros was having a crisis and needed to talk to a counselor. But there
would be no embarrassing or intimidating visit to the campus clinic.

Instead, Sigrid Frandsen-Pechenik took Cisneros to the mall, where they had
coffee and talked in English and Spanish.

It was not the usual approach to mental health counseling. But as campuses
become more diverse, colleges are finding the old ways do not always work.

There are language barriers and cultural stigmas that equate mental health
problems with being weak or crazy. There are the pressures of immigrant families
that send their children to college and do not expect to see them fail. And
since Sept. 11, 2001, there are pressures over visas, homeland security and
privacy.

Many students choose not to ask for help, counselors say. So Frandsen-Pechenik,
the assistant director of counseling and psychological services at Cornell
University, is part of a national effort to take counseling out of the office
and closer to students.

The idea is to break from the traditional model of trips to the counseling
center, scheduled appointments and 50-minute sessions, which have built-in
stresses.

Counselors at the Ivy League school hold group talks such as "The Joys and
Challenges of Being Other Than Caucasian at Cornell" and have drop-in sessions
at the international student center, the engineering school and other spots.

"There's a lot of shame" in going to the counseling center, said Cinthia Tejada,
a senior from New York. "But with outreach, it's not like you're singling
yourself out."

A report released in 2005 by the American Council on Education found
increasingly diverse campuses between 1991 and 2001, with Hispanic enrollment up
75 percent and Asian American enrollment up 54 percent. Enrollment among blacks
was up 37 percent.

In a lecture this spring, counselor Wai-Kwong Wong said Asian and Asian American
students committed 50 percent of the suicides in the past decade at Cornell.
They make up 17 percent of enrollment.

Richard D. Kadison, chief of mental health services at Harvard University and
author of "College of the Overwhelmed," said minorities and foreign students
have a particularly tough time in college.

"I've worked with many Asian students who have had a hard time finding a
language to talk about mental health concerns, and it is something that just
isn't discussed in their families," he said.

At Cornell, the new outreach includes multilingual sessions and culture-specific
marketing. Cornell literature even promotes Frandsen-Pechenik as the school's
"very own Latina psychologist."

The effort is taking hold around the country.

Last year, the University of Florida recruited a psychiatrist who speaks several
Chinese dialects to join a staff that already includes a Spanish speaker. Now
the university offers chat groups for international students in English and
Chinese.

The Massachusetts Institute of Technology's counseling center offers monthly
Chinese Tea Time group sessions, led by an Asian American psychologist. And an
online "Ask Dr. Xi" service is set to begin for Asian and other international
students.

Late last year, historically black colleges and universities met in Baltimore to
discuss marketing campaigns to help black students overcome the stigma attached
to mental health counseling.

And in New Jersey, Rutgers University's counseling center sponsored an Asian
film series, with discussions afterward. "We thought it would be a
nonthreatening approach," said David Chandler, a Rutgers counseling director.

Some students said the culturally tailored efforts are working.

"Most psychologists I meet are not understanding of, say, being the first in
your family to go to college and having the weight of the family on your
shoulders," said Cisneros, a senior from Dallas.

When she left for college, her mother was ill, and Cisneros felt guilty about
not being there for her. "Usually, I'm there to be the backbone of the family.
At one point, I really wanted to quit," she said.

Since then, she has had more than one meeting with Frandsen-Pechenik at the
mall.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              196 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Religion Notes

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T20

LENGTH: 476 words


St. Camillus Catholic Church will host a discussion, "U.S. Immigration Policy
and the Gospel," exploring how scripture and church teachings can guide
immigration policy reform, at 7 p.m. today. 1600 St. Camillus Dr., Silver
Spring. Free. 301-434-8400.

St. James' Episcopal Church will host a support group for caregivers of people
with Alzheimer's disease from 3 to 4:30 p.m. today. Meetings will be held every
third Thursday of the month at the church, 11815 Seven Locks Rd., Potomac. Free.
301-656-3359.

River Road Unitarian Church in Bethesda will host Mosaic Harmony, a choir, at 7
p.m. Saturday. 6301 River Rd., Bethesda. $15 in advance, $20 at the door; $10 in
advance, $15 at the door for seniors and students; free for children 11 and
younger. 703-698-5811 or www.mosaicharmony.com.

Temple Emanuel will host an art show and auction called "Show Me The Monet!" at
7 p.m. Saturday and 9 a.m. to noon Sunday. 10101 Connecticut Ave., Kensington.
$18 in advance; $20 at the door. Babysitting available. 301-942-2000.

Bethesda Friends Meeting will sponsor a presentation by the Save Darfur
Coalition, discussing atrocities in Sudan, at 12:30 p.m. Sunday. Sidwell Friends
Schools Lower School Campus, Edgemoor and Beverly Lanes, Bethesda. Free.
301-986-8681 or www.bethesdafriends.org.

The Theosophical Society will present a free lecture introducing the concept of
karma from 3 to 4 p.m. Sunday. 4865-A Cordell Ave., Bethesda. Free.
301-656-3566.

The Board of Jewish Education will hold the fourth of five free lectures, called
"Major Trends in Judaism Today," at 12:30 p.m. Monday. Ring House Auditorium,
1801 E. Jefferson St., Rockville. Free. 301-816-5009.

Congregation Har Shalom will host a discussion about Jews in Argentina from 8 to
9:30 p.m. Tuesday. 11510 Falls Rd., Potomac. $8. 301-299-7087, Ext. 2315.

The Foundation for Jewish Studies will host photographer Bryan Schwartz talking
about isolated Jewish communities around the world at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday at the
Jewish Community Center of Greater Washington, 6125 Montrose Rd., Rockville.
Free. 301-881-0100.

The Foundation for Jewish Studies will hold a brown-bag lunch and Bible study
called "Exodus: From the Bible to the Siddur," at 12:30 p.m. Wednesday at the
Dennis & Phillip Ratner Museum, 10001 Old Georgetown Rd., Bethesda. Advance
registration is required. Free. 301-897-1518 or www.foundationjewishstudies.org.

Adat Shalom Reconstructionist Congregation will hold the last of a three-part
class, "God, Prayer and Ritual: Ancient Concepts in a Spiritual Key," at 7:30
p.m. next Thursday. 7727 Persimmon Tree Lane, Bethesda. Free. 301-767-3333 or
www.adatshalom.net.

River Road Unitarian Church will host a circle dance, featuring music and dances
from around the world, 7:30-9:30 p.m. next Thursday. 6301 River Rd., Bethesda.
$10. 301-897-5636.

--  Compiled by ARUNA JAIN

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              197 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Compassion: A Community Value

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 639 words


We live around the corner from the Herndon 7-Eleven, where immigrant day
laborers used to crowd the parking lot. No more. A nearby McDonald's that was
another popular gathering place for day laborers similarly has returned to
normal, the result of a courageous decision by Herndon's Town Council and mayor
to allow a nonprofit, Project Hope and Harmony, to open an official day laborer
site.

This sensible solution, however, turned Herndon into a flashpoint for national
anti-immigrant groups. An influx of "white pride" protesters and Minutemen (a
group best known for its vigilantism on the Mexican border) harassed the day
laborers. Meanwhile, conservative talk show hosts nationwide urged listeners to
call the Herndon Town Council, and the volume of calls forced the town to shut
down its phone system temporarily.

This madness led us and other Herndon residents to form HEART  --  Herndon
Embraces All With Respect and Tolerance. While members of HEART have varying
views about immigration policy, we agree that Herndon should have the right to
solve a local problem without interference from national organizations. We
believe that to create an organized site to replace disorder with order is the
right approach. We support the right of day laborers to work, and we are
cognizant of the dire conditions under which many of these laborers (and their
families) live  --  without health insurance, steady employment, vacation time
or sick leave. The desire to work  --  a basic American value  --  should not
subject anyone to antipathy.

Now a group called Help Save Herndon, along with the Minutemen, is putting
together a slate of candidates for the town council. Their platform? Overturning
the official day labor site.

These groups want to see police diverted from crime prevention to enforce
federal immigration statutes. They endorse actions such as raiding homes to see
how many people live in them and checking immigration papers primarily of
Latinos  --  a discriminatory act  --  to see whether they are documented.

If Herndon were to redirect its police toward enforcing immigration laws, crime
would increase  as immigrant witnesses became afraid to come forward and victims
feared reporting crimes. The costs to Herndon could be immense. Already, the
town is using its tax revenue to defend itself against a lawsuit filed by
Judicial Watch, another national group that opposes the day laborer site.

The anti-immigrant groups offer nothing to improve the quality of life in
Herndon. On the contrary, they project an image of intolerance that is seen
around the country. They financially burden the town with frivolous lawsuits,
and they waste time shooting photographs to send to a government agency unlikely
to have the resources or the time to do anything about them.

Help Save Herndon and the Minutemen accuse Reston Interfaith and Project Hope
and Harmony of promoting the hiring of illegal immigrants, but the mission of
these groups is to provide help to those in the community who are looking for
nothing more than a little compassion.

Reston Interfaith, Project Hope and Harmony and other groups are working toward
a better community. They coordinate the day laborer site and also are active in
English-as-a-second-language  programs, homeless shelters and the LINK program,
which provides food assistance to the hungry. They care about the community and
the people in it.

While the media have  paid a lot of attention to the opponents of the day
laborer site, it is the people  involved in helping the needy who should be
recognized as the beacons of what our community stands for and what we want our
children to learn about being citizens.

--  Allen Benson

--  Leila McDowell-Head

are Herndon residents and members of Herndon Embraces

All With Respect and Tolerance.

Leilamcd@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              198 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 23, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Day-Laborer Study Finds Community Ties;
Immigrants Often Have Families, Attend Church and Are Hired by Homeowners

BYLINE: Peter Prengaman, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES Jan. 22


The immigrant day laborers who wait for work on street corners across the United
States have families and attend church regularly, and the people who hire them
are more likely to be individual homeowners than construction contractors.

The first nationwide study of day laborers also found that one in five has been
injured on the job and nearly half have been cheated of pay.

The study, the most detailed snapshot to date of the mostly Hispanic and often
undocumented immigrants who have become a focal point in the immigration debate,
was based on interviews of 2,660 workers at 264 hiring sites in 20 states and
the District of Columbia.

The authors said they were surprised by the level of community involvement among
men often thought of as transients.

"The day-labor corner is not as disconnected from society as people think. It's
seen as a shadow economy, but that's really not the case," said professor Nik
Theodore of the University of Illinois at Chicago, one of three study authors.
The others were from the University of California at Los Angeles and New York's
New School University.

Standing outside a Home Depot store in suburban Burbank on Sunday, Raul Sanchez,
33, said that when he is not working, or waiting for work, he is  involved in a
church and tried to start a soccer league for fellow day laborers. The native of
Mexico has been in the United States seven years and lives with his wife and two
children, ages 13 and 14.

Sometimes he worries about small work sites with little safety equipment.

"We know nobody is going to help us out if we get hurt," Sanchez said. "There
are risks, but what are we going to do  --  not work?"

As often as not, a day laborer's employer will be an individual rather than a
labor contractor.

Forty-nine percent of respondents said they were regularly hired by homeowners
for everything from carpentry to gardening, with 43 percent getting jobs from
construction contractors. Two-thirds said they are hired repeatedly by the same
employer.

Based on their interviews and counts at each hiring site, the researchers
estimate there are about 117,600 day laborers nationwide, but they say that
number is probably low. They said it would be impossible to count the number of
hiring sites nationwide,  as some spring up spontaneously.

Based on interviews conducted in July and August 2004, the researchers found
that three-fourths of day laborers were illegal immigrants and most were
Hispanic: 59 percent were from Mexico and 28 percent from other Central American
countries.

More than half said they attended church regularly, 22 percent reported being
involved in sports clubs and 26 percent said they participated in community
centers. Nearly two-thirds had children, 36 percent were married and 7 percent
lived with a partner.

In addition, more than 80 percent rely on day labor as their sole source of
income, earning close to the 2005 federal poverty guideline of $12,830 for a
family of two.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              199 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 28, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The Right Is Mum in Immigrant Debate;
Evangelicals Cite a Lack Of Consensus and a Shift In Focus to Other Issues

BYLINE: G. Jeffrey MacDonald, Religion News Service

SECTION: Metro; B09

LENGTH: 972 words


Advocates with World Relief, the humanitarian arm of the National Association of
Evangelicals, can usually expect a warm greeting from large evangelical groups
wielding clout in the halls of Congress.

But this year, they are getting a downright chilly reception  concerning one of
their priority agenda items: immigration reform.

As Congress grapples with legislation regarding an estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants, the nation's most powerful conservative Christian
organizations have been watching from the sidelines. This occurs despite decades
of evangelical initiative to make America a hospitable haven for religious and
political refugees.

The search to explain the silence leads through several layers of reasoning.

For starters, the Christian right says it has other issues at the moment, such
as the confirmation of conservative judges and the battle against same-sex
marriage. Beyond that, some suspect evangelicals don't want to appear soft on
lawbreakers of any kind. And on a level that plumbs the depths of what it means
to bear Christian witness, evangelicals confide that they are still struggling
as a community to determine the right thing to do.

Among Southern Baptists, for instance, "there's no consensus about what to do
about the [illegal immigrants] who are already here or about how we would allow
legal immigration," said Richard Land, president of the Ethics and Religious
Liberty Commission, which articulates public policy positions for the 16
million-member Southern Baptist Convention.

Southern Baptists "see a basic distinction between people who are refugees, who
are in fear of losing their life and home . . . and those who are coming over
primarily for economic reasons and are not abiding by the immigration laws," he
said. Because mass deportation "isn't realistic," Land said, the denomination
needs to wrestle longer with what to do.

Evangelicals on the immigration front lines say time is running out.

Near Tucson, Maryada Vallet travels the desert in a pickup, stopping to not only
feed undocumented border crossers, but also to wash their blistered feet. It's a
gesture from biblical accounts of what Jesus did for his disciples at the Last
Supper.

Such inspired volunteer work, warns World Relief staff attorney Amy Bliss, could
lead to federal prosecution if a bill that the House of Representatives passed
in December  becomes law.

"Anyone who believes" in the biblical story of the gentile who stopped to help a
wounded man, Vallet said, "should be outraged that . . . the government is
making it a crime to be a good Samaritan."

Soon, the U.S. Senate is expected to start reviewing the House bill in
committee. Liberal religious activists say evangelical participation could
determine whether the bill passes.

"To have the evangelical voice there [advocating] has been particularly
important to this administration, which listens to them," said C. Richard
Parkins, director of Episcopal Migration Ministries for the Episcopal Church
U.S.A., a mainline Protestant denomination with a liberal bent. "They have
access to leadership that we've not had access to."

Yet despite appeals for help from evangelicals at Baltimore-based World Relief
and the Arlington-based Jubilee Campaign, the faith's political heavy hitters
have kept mum on immigration.

Amber Hildebrand, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based Family Research
Council, explains: "It's not that we don't think [immigration policy] is
important. There have just been other issues the FRC has chosen to focus on."
Colorado-based Focus on the Family spokeswoman Gwen Stein gives the same reason
for her group's  reluctance to take a stand.

The National Association of Evangelicals hasn't taken a position on immigration
since 1985. At that time, as President Ronald Reagan was ushering in what was in
effect an amnesty program for illegal immigrants, the NAE pledged "to eliminate
the spirit of racism in any of our responses" and "show personal and corporate
hospitality to those who seek a new life in our nation."

Led by evangelical organizers at World Relief, 111  national and regional
religious groups signed a statement in October calling for a process to let
undocumented immigrants apply for legal status. Signatories ranged from the
Union for Reform Judaism to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.

In Congress, debate hinges largely on whether immigrants should be able to seek
legal status if they pay a fine and other penalties. A bill proposed by Sens.
John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) would allow for such a
process, while President Bush's guest worker proposal would require the
undocumented to leave after a designated period. Whether family members should
be separated or kept together also remains an issue.

Evangelical groups, if determined to appear tough on illegal immigration, could
endorse the House-approved bill, which provides for a fence along 700 miles of
the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexican border, although it does not address the question of
what to do with undocumented immigrants.

But evangelicals who appear unsympathetic toward immigrants run other political
risks. They could alienate business interests  --  that is, political allies in
industries known to employ thousands of undocumented workers. They could also
run afoul of a growing foreign-born constituency, according to Manuel A.
Vasquez, associate professor of religion at the University of Florida and an
expert on religion and immigration.

"In many ways, conservatives see immigrants from Latin America are bringing
values that they would like to regain: values of family, gender roles that are
very well defined, an ethic of hard work," Vasquez said.

"Immigrants have values that can convert America and return America to the
values of thrift and hard work."

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              200 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

State Politicians Courting A Growing Immigrant Vote;
Duncan, Others Attend Lunar New Year Celebrations

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C05

LENGTH: 720 words


Most Maryland voters probably didn't realize that Asian Americans were
celebrating New Year's yesterday, but Montgomery County Executive Douglas M.
Duncan marks the date on his calendar every year.

Duncan, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, crisscrossed
Montgomery yesterday, attending two Lunar New Year celebrations and a gathering
to commemorate the anniversary of India becoming a republic, on Jan. 26, 1950.

For Duncan and other elected officials, showing up at these events is part of a
strategy to reach out to immigrants whose political influence remains relatively
untested statewide even though their numbers are growing rapidly.

"We are proud of the diversity in our community," Duncan said at a Lunar New
Year celebration in Gaithersburg. "As we celebrate that diversity and wrap our
arms around it, it makes us stronger."

Pollsters and political consultants say it will probably be a few years before
foreign-born residents are major factors in statewide elections. But candidates
this year aren't taking any chances.

Several Montgomery County Council members, including county executive candidate
Steven A. Silverman (D-At Large), and state legislators also attended the Lunar
New Year event in Gaithersburg. Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) was scheduled to
attend an Indian Republic Day event in Greenbelt last night at the same time
Duncan was at one in Gaithersburg.

"These are people you simply cannot ignore," said former Montgomery County
Council member Isiah Leggett, the former chairman of the Maryland Democratic
Party and a candidate for county executive. "Not only are they voting, they are
giving money and volunteering, so I think candidates who ignore them do so at
their own peril."

Duncan's opponent for the Democratic nomination, Baltimore Mayor Martin J.
O'Malley, was scheduled to meet with a group of African immigrants in Prince
George's County today. In 2002, they helped Prince George's County Executive
Jack B. Johnson (D) win the Democratic primary.

But Duncan may have the most to lose if he fails to draw votes from immigrant
communities. Foreign-born residents make up a significant share of the
Montgomery voters he needs to offset O'Malley's expected advantage in the
Baltimore area.

Although foreign-born residents account for 10 percent of Maryland's population,
they make up 27 percent of Montgomery's, according to the 2000 Census. In Prince
George's, they account for 14 percent.

"As a percentage of the statewide likely vote, these immigrant populations will
still be in the modest single digits, but when you look within the greater
Washington marketplace, particularly Montgomery County, these new immigrants can
tip the balance," said Keith Haller, a Maryland independent pollster.

Since becoming county executive in 1994, Duncan has cultivated immigrant
communities, among other things, hiring Asian, Hispanic and African American
liaisons who report directly to him. In 2000, at Duncan's urging, the county
also opened the Charles W. Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity in Wheaton,
which is described as a one-stop shop for new immigrants to get services. The
county has also created separate health care programs for Asians and Hispanics.

Duncan's gubernatorial campaign is aggressively targeting first- and
second-generation immigrants.

With a record number of minority candidates anticipated on the primary ballot in
Montgomery this year, some Democrats are hoping to maximize the turnout among
foreign-born voters, which could benefit Duncan.

Tufail Ahmad, a Pakistani American and Democrat who plans to run for County
Council, says he wants to encourage Muslim voters to turn out, even though he
doesn't believe he can win.

Lily Qi, Washington director of the Organization of Chinese Americans, said many
Asian Americans  --  who account for 13 percent of Montgomery's population  --
are solidly behind Duncan. "We value education, and that is his crowning
achievement," Qi said.

But Duncan's strategy to woo immigrant communities could be undercut by
O'Malley's efforts.

Kamala Edwards, an Indian American and Democratic activist from Silver Spring,
says she's supporting O'Malley  --  mainly because he asked first.

"Mayor O'Malley approached the community, and he has come out to have
meet-and-greets," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2006



CORRECTION: A Jan. 29 Metro article said that Tufail Ahmad is running for a seat
on the Montgomery County Council to increase voter turnout among Muslims, not
because he thinks he can win. Ahmad said he does believe he can be elected,
although his primary goal is to boost turnout.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              201 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Md. Politicians Courting Growing Immigrant Vote

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C05

LENGTH: 720 words


Most Maryland voters probably didn't realize that Asian Americans were
celebrating New Year's yesterday, but Montgomery County Executive Douglas M.
Duncan marks the date on his calendar every year.

Duncan, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, crisscrossed
Montgomery yesterday, attending two Lunar New Year celebrations and a gathering
to commemorate the anniversary of India becoming a republic, on Jan. 26, 1950.

For Duncan and other elected officials, showing up at these events is part of a
strategy to reach out to immigrants whose political influence remains relatively
untested statewide even though their numbers are growing rapidly.

"We are proud of the diversity in our community," Duncan said at a Lunar New
Year celebration in Gaithersburg. "As we celebrate that diversity and wrap our
arms around it, it makes us stronger."

Pollsters and political consultants say it will probably be a few years before
foreign-born residents are major factors in statewide elections. But candidates
this year aren't taking any chances.

Several Montgomery County Council members, including county executive candidate
Steven A. Silverman (D-At Large), and state legislators also attended the Lunar
New Year event in Gaithersburg. Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) was scheduled to
attend an Indian Republic Day event in Greenbelt last night at the same time
Duncan was at one in Gaithersburg.

"These are people you simply cannot ignore," said former Montgomery County
Council member Isiah Leggett, the former chairman of the Maryland Democratic
Party and a candidate for county executive. "Not only are they voting, they are
giving money and volunteering, so I think candidates who ignore them do so at
their own peril."

Duncan's opponent for the Democratic nomination, Baltimore Mayor Martin J.
O'Malley, was scheduled to meet with a group of African immigrants in Prince
George's County today. In 2002, they helped Prince George's County Executive
Jack B. Johnson (D) win the Democratic primary.

But Duncan may have the most to lose if he fails to draw votes from immigrant
communities. Foreign-born residents make up a significant share of the
Montgomery voters he needs to offset O'Malley's expected advantage in the
Baltimore area.

Although foreign-born residents account for 10 percent of Maryland's population,
they make up 27 percent of Montgomery's, according to the 2000 Census. In Prince
George's, they account for 14 percent.

"As a percentage of the statewide likely vote, these immigrant populations will
still be in the modest single digits, but when you look within the greater
Washington marketplace, particularly Montgomery County, these new immigrants can
tip the balance," said Keith Haller, a Maryland independent pollster.

Since becoming county executive in 1994, Duncan has cultivated immigrant
communities, among other things, hiring Asian, Hispanic and African American
liaisons who report directly to him. In 2000, at Duncan's urging, the county
also opened the Charles W. Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity in Wheaton,
which is described as a one-stop shop for new immigrants to get services. The
county has also created separate health care programs for Asians and Hispanics.

Duncan's gubernatorial campaign is aggressively targeting first- and
second-generation immigrants.

With a record number of minority candidates anticipated on the primary ballot in
Montgomery this year, some Democrats are hoping to maximize the turnout among
foreign-born voters, which could benefit Duncan.

Tufail Ahmad, a Pakistani American and Democrat who plans to run for County
Council, says he wants to encourage Muslim voters to turn out, even though he
doesn't believe he can win.

Lily Qi, Washington director of the Organization of Chinese Americans, said many
Asian Americans  --  who account for 13 percent of Montgomery's population  --
are solidly behind Duncan. "We value education, and that is his crowning
achievement," Qi said.

But Duncan's strategy to woo immigrant communities could be undercut by
O'Malley's efforts.

Kamala Edwards, an Indian American and Democratic activist from Silver Spring,
says she's supporting O'Malley  --  mainly because he asked first.

"Mayor O'Malley approached the community, and he has come out to have
meet-and-greets," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2006



CORRECTION: A Jan. 29 Metro article said that Tufail Ahmad is running for a seat
on the Montgomery County Council to increase voter turnout among Muslims, not
because he thinks he can win. Ahmad said he does believe he can be elected,
although his primary goal is to boost turnout.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              202 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Transit System Aiming to Assist Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Otto, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Howard Extra; T03

LENGTH: 744 words


Julissa Freire is fluent in English, Spanish and the Howard Transit system.

A frequent bus rider and a staff member at the Foreign-born Information and
Referral Network, the Columbia-based immigrant and refugee assistance
organization, Freire often dispenses advice to Spanish-speaking residents on the
intricacies of the system.

"They feel nervous, intimidated," she said.

They worry about getting lost. They follow routes known by colors  --  red,
blue, yellow and green. Sometimes the waits are bewildering and the transfers
confusing to someone who speaks little or no English. Bus drivers aren't always
helpful, Freire said, and the language barrier makes things worse.

"A lot of the bus riders get frustrated," said Freire, 25. "A lot of people
would rather walk or drive vehicles unlicensed."

Others, however, have conquered their fears and use the buses. A recent Howard
Transit ridership survey found that slightly more than a quarter of public
transit users speak English as second language. "It was an eye-opener for us,"
said Carl Balser, county transportation planning chief.

As a result Howard officials have decided to tackle the problem of making the
buses more user-friendly to immigrants.

"We have riders right now, non-English speakers, who have barriers to how they
use the system," Balser said. "And others who could use it but who are
intimidated and can't even get in the door. We felt it was something we wanted
to address head-on.''

Making the transit system easier to navigate is part of a larger challenge in
serving the needs of an increasingly diverse community. The county's immigrant
population more than doubled from 1990 to 2000, climbing to more than 28,000
people. By 2015, foreign-born residents are expected to comprise 16 percent of
the county's population, according to a study conducted for the immigrant
assistance organization. Those numbers might be much greater because many
immigrants aren't counted by the U.S. Census.

Translating a new, updated regional guide to the system into Spanish is a good
place to start, said Sharon Smith, a spokeswoman for Corridor Transportation
Corp., which manages transit service contracts for Howard County.

Nearly half of the non-English speakers who responded to the ridership survey
said their first language was Spanish. "That tells us a whole lot," Smith said.

Another goal is to help drivers and other transit staff members become more
sensitive to the needs of riders who speak limited English.

"We're looking at cultural awareness training for our drivers and dispatchers,"
Smith said.

Officials are also weighing ideas such as launching a public awareness campaign
with the help of local foreign-language media and recruiting volunteer mentors
to help coach non-English speakers in the use of the system.

That's good news to Joey Hong, who works with the Korean American Community
Association of Howard County. He said some Korean Americans, especially seniors,
neither drive nor speak English and are reluctant to use the transit system. His
organization would be willing to translate bus guides and other information into
Korean, he said.

"If the information is in Korean, it would be much better," Hong said.

Viviana Simon, president of the board of the advocacy group Alianza de la
Comunidad, said the outreach efforts are important. She hopes the system will be
able to expand its schedule and routes to better serve shift workers who could
use public transportation to get to night jobs. Bus service ends at 11 p.m.

Getting enough money to support such efforts will remain a challenge, predicted
Carol Filipczak of Transportation Advocates, a group that works for a stronger
public transportation system in Howard County.

"Let's just say the department of transportation is more interested in highways
than in public transit," she said.

The Maryland Transit Administration announced it was closing the Jessup train
station, one of four MARC Camden Line stations in Howard, because of low
ridership.

Smith remains hopeful. She said passengers from the county and around the region
are increasingly relying on Howard Transit buses to get around Columbia, up and
down Route 1, around the county and to outlying connections to regional bus and
train services. The system provided 750,000 rides last year. She also
acknowledged the need for extending the hours. "For those who do shift work,
they are almost forced to drive," she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              203 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 3, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Writer Yiyun Li's Petition for Residency Denied on Appeal

BYLINE: Bob Thompson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C08

LENGTH: 366 words


Chinese-born fiction writer Yiyun Li's petition for permanent residency in the
United States on the grounds of "extraordinary ability in the arts" has been
denied on appeal.

Li is the author of "A Thousand Years of Good Prayers," a short-story collection
published last fall by Random House, which had awarded her a $200,000, two-book
contract while she was still a student at the Iowa Writers' Workshop. Her awards
include the Pushcart Prize, the Plimpton Prize for New Writers and the Frank
O'Connor International Short Story Award.

"While the facts presented in this case are especially sympathetic and
compelling," the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services informed Li in its
denial of her petition, "at the time of this filing the petitioner had not met
the very high standard set by Congress" to establish her "extraordinary
ability."

Li's petition included letters of support from novelist and PEN American Center
President Salman Rushdie, who pointed out that the kind of "far-reaching
interest and buzz" Li has generated is "extremely rare," and from New Yorker
editor David Remnick, who wrote that Li was among those "destined to become the
leading writers of their generation."

USCIS senior public affairs officer Christopher Bentley said the agency could
not comment on individual petitions for reasons of privacy. But the wording of
the decision appeared to leave the door open for Li to apply again.
"Unfortunately," it pointed out, "her most notable achievements occurred largely
after this petition was filed."

Her story collection was published after the filing deadline, so the praise "A
Thousand Years of Good Prayers" received from reviewers could not be factored
in. The Frank O'Connor award, which Li subsequently won, might be even more
significant. It could establish that she has received what Title 8, Code of
Federal Regulations, Part 204.5(h)(3) calls "sustained national or international
acclaim through evidence of a one-time achevement (that is, a major,
internationally recognized award)"  --  a finding that could ensure a new
petition's success.

"The denial doesn't say I cannot file a new petition," a disappointed Li said
yesterday. "So I will try."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              204 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 5, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Rewriting Book on Libraries From Immigrants' View;
Branches Catering to Immigrant Needs

BYLINE: Cameron W. Barr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 1337 words


After Shahla Mostafavi arrived in Montgomery County from Iran a decade ago, the
public library became her comfort and refuge  --  a place to learn about her
adopted land and  meet new people. "For immigrants, the first place they usually
go is the library," she said  last week as she sat in the Gaithersburg branch
library.

In the next room, Fares Azzoug, 25, an Algerian, checked his e-mail and filled
out a Selective Service form on one of the library's computers. He later joined
Cesar Chavez, a Salvadoran, and a score of other new arrivals for an English
conversation club. "For me, it's very, very important," said Chavez, gamely
practicing his new language. "When I came, I am not speaking any English."

As the Washington suburbs draw more immigrants, many of the region's public
libraries are recasting themselves as welcome centers for "new Americans,"
emulating a program pioneered decades ago in the New York borough of Queens.
Signs at the Gaithersburg branch identify the checkout desk in Chinese, Korean,
Spanish and Vietnamese. The profusion of return dates stamped on the back of
Chinese romance novels shows the popularity of the library's growing
foreign-language collections.

At a time of controversy over the outlay of public funds for day-labor centers
that help immigrants find work, libraries are spending similar amounts of money
to provide English-learning and foreign-language materials that primarily
benefit the region's foreign-born residents.

"As the county has changed, so have we," said Parker Hamilton, director of
Montgomery County Public Libraries. In 1990, 21 percent of the county's
residents ages 5 and older spoke a language other than English at home, compared
with 35 percent who do today, according to census data.

Fairfax County Public Library Director Edwin S. Clay III said libraries
historically have acted as gateways to language and culture for new arrivals.
"We've simply updated that," he said.

He and Hamilton said that adapting to immigrant constituencies hasn't displaced
traditional users. "Our volume of business is up  --  significantly," Clay said,
but he added that the growth has come in new areas such as online, instead of
increased visits and circulation of books and other materials.

Where the suburban public library of yore was a quiet place where residents
could find something to read, today it is a noisier building with a more complex
mission. "We're a conduit to social services," said Lillian Snyder, who manages
Gaithersburg library. She and her colleagues have helped customers contact
immigration authorities and other government agencies, complete online job
applications and solve housing problems.

Many corporations and government agencies now require applicants to contact them
online, which drives people without computers to libraries  --  one of the few
places Internet access is free. One result is that librarians spend a good deal
of time helping people operate printers and unfreeze their screens in addition
to leading them to sources of information.

Signs of Gaithersburg's immigrant influx, old and new, abound in the library.
One day last month, books were on hold for six customers whose last names begin
with N: Na, Narasimhan, Nakoski, Ngo, Nguyen and Notto. The snack cart in the
lobby offered corn dogs, pizza and pretzels as well as the foods of more recent
immigrants: empanadas and steamed buns. And in the men's room, the graffito
"MS-13 100%"  --  the acronym is shorthand for the Latino gang Mara Salvatrucha
--  appeared on a partition. Snyder had it painted over immediately.

Five years ago, a Montgomery task force conducted focus groups and a survey to
assess the libraries' effectiveness in reaching out to immigrants and
minorities. "Both the immigrant groups and the African American groups saw a
need for much more cultural sensitivity on the part of the staff," members of
the task force wrote. "People felt unwelcome and looked down upon and said they
were treated unfairly and inconsistently. Customers want more staff who speak
their language or share their culture."

The system now employs staff members who speak Amharic, Chinese, French, Korean,
Spanish and Vietnamese. Since the survey, the library system has sped up its
acquisition of foreign-language materials. Collections exist in Chinese, Korean,
Spanish and Vietnamese, and librarians plan to add French and Russian materials
next fiscal year. Computerized language labs are available at three of the
county's 20 full-service branches.

In the coming fiscal year, Montgomery library officials expect to spend about
$469,000  on foreign-language acquisitions and databases and English-instruction
materials, which is comparable to the $563,000 the county appropriated this year
to fund day-labor centers in Wheaton and Silver Spring. That amount includes
start-up funding for a proposed day-labor center in Gaithersburg that was put on
hold after neighbors objected.

Despite a much louder outcry in the Fairfax municipality of Herndon last year,
organized opposition failed to prevent the opening of a day-labor center. But
activists opposed to illegal immigration continue to object to the expenditure
of $175,000 in public funds for such purposes. That money is part of a $400,000
appropriation by the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors to address problems
posed by day laborers.

The Fairfax library is spending at least $283,000 this year to buy
foreign-language and English-instruction materials.

"I don't condone the use of any services paid for by taxpayers for people not in
the country legally," said George Taplin, president of the Herndon chapter of
the Minutemen Project, a group opposed to the publicly funded day-labor center.
But he said that libraries are no place to test for immigration status. "You
can't put the onus of validation on librarians," he said.

Linda Schlekau, who heads the Woodrow Wilson Library in Fairfax, said there was
no reason to compare library and day-labor programs that serve immigrants. "I
just can't see the comparison, I guess because I'm just so used to helping
anybody and everybody."

William Wright, a retired U.S. Foreign Service officer who volunteers at
Gaithersburg's conversation club, said the public funds spent in libraries to
help immigrants will pay off in the long run. "Here's why," he said. "They'll
get jobs and pay taxes."

One reason area libraries are reaching out to immigrants is the inspiration
offered by Queens Library, which launched its New Americans Program in 1977 and
has since become one of the nation's busiest library systems. The borough is one
of the most diverse and polyglot in the nation: Census data show that half of
Queens residents were born abroad.

Montgomery librarians have visited Queens to gather ideas in recent years; a
Fairfax team went in late 2005. "We're a suburban library system slowly but
surely changing into an urban system," Fairfax's Clay said. "For us, [the Queens
Library] is like the future  --  today  --  that we can study."

Maralita S. Freeny, Prince George's County Memorial Library System's director,
said county libraries plan to do more to serve immigrant populations. Last week,
Prince George's inaugurated an English conversation club at its Hyattsville
branch. She cites as a model Arlington's system, which operates three "outreach
centers" primarily for new arrivals.

Michael Koney arrived in Norfolk from Ghana in 1990 and credits Montgomery's
libraries with giving him the resources to become a permanent resident in 2002.
He checked out books that guided him through the immigration process and used
library computers to print out the necessary forms. Without the library, he
said, "I would have had to hire a lawyer."

The libraries continue to serve him well. He recently visited the Gaithersburg
branch to research mortgages in preparation for a real estate investment. Koney
said the library would one day help him apply successfully for citizenship. When
that time comes, he said, "I'll jump on it."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              205 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Reminder That New Pay and Personnel Systems Aren't Free

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: Metro; B02 , FEDERAL DIARY Stephen Barr

LENGTH: 650 words


Leaving the old General Schedule comes at a price.

The Department of Homeland Security is asking Congress for an extra $41.7
million in fiscal 2007 to continue setting up its new pay and personnel system,
MaxHR, which will replace the GS system used across the government for decades.
The increase, if approved, would bring total funding for MaxHR to $71.4 million.

Defense Department officials said they did not have a breakdown of 2007 costs
for the National Security Personnel System, which is the Pentagon's replacement
for the GS system. A spokeswoman for the NSPS said start-up costs are projected
to be $158 million from fiscal 2005 to 2008.

Plans to convert Defense and Homeland Security civil service pay systems have
been delayed by litigation over workplace rules. Federal unions contend that
parts of MaxHR and NSPS gut their collective bargaining rights.

The president's fiscal 2007 budget, released Monday, would allow Homeland
Security to continue with the design of its market-based pay system, create a
compensation committee and continue training supervisors and managers.

Employees not covered by union contracts are converting to a new performance
management system at headquarters and several bureaus, including the Secret
Service, the Coast Guard, Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. Training on the system is supposed to begin for
Customs and Border Protection and Citizenship and Immigration Services,
according to the budget.

During fiscal 2007, Homeland Security officials expect to phase in
pay-for-performance and market-based systems. The department's budget request
seeks funding for 16 positions to administer the performance-based pay system.

In addition, the budget request would finance two new positions to address
hiring problems across the department. Federal managers, including Homeland
Security officials, are increasingly complaining that hiring takes too long. For
fiscal 2007, the budget would provide funding to hire 1,500 Border Patrol
agents.

The budget also would provide about $4.7 million for the Homeland Security Labor
Relations Board, which was authorized by Congress to handle labor-management
disputes. Officials contend the in-house board would resolve disputes faster and
show more sensitivity to mission requirements than does the Federal Labor
Relations Authority, an independent agency that referees disputes.

According to the department's budget request, the in-house labor board will be
established the current fiscal year and bulk up its staffing for an expanded
caseload in 2007. The budget request acknowledged that a federal court lawsuit
may force the department to modify its plans, however.

When you retire from the government, it typically takes 80 to 93 days for the
Office of Personnel Management to authorize retirement benefits. Some employees,
who worked for several agencies or have a complex work history, have told the
Federal Diary that they have waited almost a year for OPM to reach a decision on
their full annuity benefits.

To speed up processing, the president's fiscal 2007 budget would provide OPM
with an additional $26.7 million for its "retirement systems modernization
project."

The project will convert millions of paper records into electronic records. As
the project phases in, OPM hopes to be able to authorize new retirement benefits
within five days and to improve the accuracy of pension computations.

What's the best way to improve the government's pay systems and its evaluation
of employee performance? A Diary Live participant suggested an online forum to
discuss how to change personnel systems. So we're taking the offer up today on
washingtonpost.com.

Please join us at noon on Federal Diary Live for a discussion. You may submit
your ideas and comments then or in advance, at
www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.

E-mail: barrs@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              206 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Minuteman Rallies at Capitol;
Illegal-Immigration Opponents Draw Counter-Protest

BYLINE: Timothy Dwyer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 675 words


About 100 supporters of the Minuteman Project rallied on the West Lawn of the
Capitol yesterday morning, imploring the government to tighten the nation's
borders and reject guest-worker legislation.

Not long after it began, a few counter-demonstrators showed up with signs and
shouted their own opinions. A short while later, when Minuteman founder Jim
Gilchrist began speaking, two young men dressed in black slacks, khaki shirts
and red swastika armbands walked onto the lawn and headed for the rally.

"Oh, no," said a woman with a Minuteman sticker on her coat. "Not the Nazis."

Gilchrist looked at the two men approaching the rally. "Nazis go to hell!" he
said, adding that he was going to stop the proceedings for a short time because
he didn't want the men to share the spotlight.

The two men  --  Paul White, 28, of Roanoke and Kevin Swift, 22, of Reston,
members of the National Socialist Movement, also called America's Nazi Party on
the literature they handed out  --  were quickly surrounded by the media.

A couple of minutes later, they were asked by police to move along, which they
did, taking up a spot across the street from the West Lawn, where they chanted
slogans and posed for pictures with high school students touring the nation's
capital.

The rally quickly resumed. In addition to Gilchrist, two members of Congress  --
Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) and Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.)  --  addressed
the Minuteman Project supporters, calling on Congress and President Bush to plug
the country's "porous borders" and attacking proposals for guest-worker programs
and amnesty for illegal immigrants.

The Minuteman Project began attracting national attention when members began
civilian patrols of the Mexican border in an effort to inhibit border crossings.
In Herndon last year, a local chapter was founded, and its members began
photographing day laborers who gathered at a 7-Eleven as well as employers who
went there each morning looking to hire them.

The Herndon chapter opposed a publicly financed day-laborer center at the old
Herndon police station. When the center opened in December, a large contingent
of Minuteman members were there, along with counter-demonstrators, and they
engaged in loud, sometimes tense, debates.

Last night, the Herndon chapter held a meeting, with Gilchrist in attendance,
and leaders of a recently formed Maryland chapter were introduced.

At the rally yesterday morning, there was spirited interaction but no tense
confrontations. The counter-demonstrators initially mixed with the pro-Minuteman
crowd but then seemed content to heckle speakers from the back.

"We are being told that we have to bring more people in from other countries
because there are jobs that American people won't do," Rohrabacher said.
"Americans will do any job as long as they are paid a fair and decent wage."

As he spoke, some of the counter-demonstrators shouted that the Minuteman
members were racist.

"We're trying to keep this positive," Rohrabacher said, "We want to make sure
that people know that the people who are calling us names, they have the bad
spirit."

When it was Gilchrist's turn to speak, he did not ignore the
counter-demonstrators or their signs. "Now, you with the KKK sign  --  who are
you calling a racist?"

"You!" shouted the man with the sign.

Gilchrist paid no more attention to the counter-demonstrators, turning his
attention to the 100 U.S. senators whom he had invited to the rally. "Dear
senators of the United States of America," he said, "I am putting you on notice
that at 12:14 p.m. on February 8 in the 2006th year of our Lord, that if we
cannot change you with our letters, I can assure you that we can move you with
our rhetoric. And we will most assuredly move you out of office with our votes."

Gilchrist, who made an unsuccessful run for Congress as an independent, called
for a 500 percent increase in funding for border patrols. He said illegal
immigration is undermining the U.S. economy to the extent that a "devastating
disaster" will occur very soon.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              207 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Critic of Genetically Modified Food Is Deported

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Feb. 8


Immigration officials said Wednesday that they detained and later deported Jose
Bove, the firebrand leader of Europe's movement against genetically modified
food, back to France.

"He was not eligible to enter the U.S. under the visa waiver program," said
Janet Rapaport, spokeswoman for U.S. customs and border protection in New York.
"Based on personal background, he needed a visa and a waiver."

Bove, a French citizen, came to the United States at the invitation of the
National Family Farm Coalition to speak at an agriculture conference at Cornell
University.

His deportation comes the day after the World Trade Organization ruled that
Europe's six-year ban on biotech crops violated trade rules. Bove has served
prison time for vandalizing  crops, some owned by U.S. firms.

--  Michelle Garcia

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              208 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 17, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Issue Threatens GOP's Fla. Stronghold;
Cuban Americans Angry Over 'Wet Foot' Policy

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1267 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


On the morning after Christmas, something akin to a miracle happened on the high
seas between Miami and Key West, according to an interpretation of the event by
U.S. immigration officials. Fifteen Cuban refugees essentially walked on water.

They clambered out of a ramshackle boat as it sank in the deep, dark Florida
straits and clung to the rocky remains of an old bridge. Under the "wet foot,
dry foot" policy that allows Cubans fleeing communism to reside in the United
States only if they somehow reach dry land, the group appeared to have made it
to freedom. But in an unusual interpretation of the rule, the Coast Guard said
the partially demolished old Seven Mile Bridge no longer touched land, and
therefore the 15 had wet feet.

In any other place, the incident might have gone down as just another example of
how the Bush administration has gotten tough on immigration. But not here in
Miami, home to the million-strong and politically potent Cuban exile community,
where many people say the "wet foot, dry foot" rule is ambiguous and unfairly
applied. Outraged, South Florida's Cubans are directing their anger squarely at
President Bush, who carried Florida largely on the strength of their vote in the
last two presidential elections.

At least one influential Cuban, Pepe Hernandez, president of the Cuban American
National Foundation (CANF), said it might be time for the Cubans to do the
unthinkable  --  reconsider their unwavering loyalty to Republican candidates.

"This community must face the realization that politicians, especially national
politicians, come here to Miami when they need our votes and forget their
promises," he said. "President Bush came here and said he would review this
policy, and nothing has happened. Cuban voters will be looking into this reality
a little bit when they cast their votes."

This is not the first time that the Cuban lobby has talked tough about switching
its vote, but it caused enough of a scare among Republicans to prompt the
president's brother, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R), and Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.)
to deplore the Coast Guard's decision to dispatch the refugees back to Cuba, and
put in calls to the White House.

The White House responded last week by agreeing to meet with a delegation of
Cuban lawmakers, lawyers and advocates. A State Department official confirmed
that it would participate, along with the departments of Homeland Security and
Justice.

At the same time, U.S. attorneys are fighting a lawsuit filed by relatives of
the 15 deportees against the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the
Coast Guard. A federal judge who is presiding over the case expressed disbelief
at the government's argument that the  old Seven Mile Bridge is not part of
American soil, but also said the issue may be moot, because the 15 Cubans were
sent home and are no longer under the jurisdiction of the court.

U.S. District Court Judge Federico A. Moreno said on Wednesday that he will make
a decision on the case at the end of the month.

These events come as  the immigration issue is taking center stage in the
American political debate. Next month, the Senate is expected to begin debating
various immigration  bills that would allow foreign nationals to work
temporarily in the United States under strict conditions. At the same time, many
Republicans, as well as Democrats, are pressing for a harder line toward illegal
immigrants.

Cubans say they have a special status as exiles from the only communist nation
in the Western Hemisphere and as a conservative bloc of voters who helped
Republicans maintain a political majority in Washington.

Hernandez said his organization understands that the United States cannot have
35,000 Cubans entering the country each year, as in 1994, when the Clinton
administration decided to implement the "wet foot, dry foot" policy. It allows
Cubans into the country if they step  on land but sends them home, where they
would likely face persecution, if the Coast Guard intercepts  their boats at
sea.

But,  Hernandez said, the Coast Guard has gotten more aggressive in policing the
border. Cubans have watched in horror as  Coast Guard workers tackled Cubans
like linebackers when they leapt from boats and made a dash from surf to sand.

Cubans have also been shocked by television footage of Coast Guard cutters
bumping rickety handmade craft as refugees wafted toward land, sometimes causing
people to tumble out of boats and drown.

Last year, about 2,500 Cubans made it to land, and  about 2,800 were captured at
sea, according to the Coast Guard.

Still, there has never been anything like the event on Dec. 26, when, in the 4
a.m. darkness, a group of Cubans miraculously bumped into a bridge just as their
boat was sinking. Elizabeth Hernandez, 22, who was on the boat with her
2-year-old son, Michael Junior Blanco, had a cell phone.

Around 4:30, Mercedes Hernandez Guerrero picked up her phone in Miami and heard
her cousin's voice.

"She was asking for help," Guerrero said. "Their boat was sinking. I told them
to stay there. I thought I was helping them. I thought about going out there
with a rope."

Guerrero called Ramon Saul Sanchez, the leader of the Democracy Movement,  who
wanted to help but first asked if the group was part of a smuggling operation.
Assured that they were not, Sanchez organized a rescue group and set out on a
two-hour drive to their location near Key West.

But the Coast Guard got there first. A Coast Guard cutter spotted the group,
plucked them off the bridge and began to process them for repatriation or
deportation to a third-party country.  About 97 percent of Cubans intercepted at
sea are sent  home, but 3 percent are accepted by other host countries such as
Costa Rica, according to the Cuban American National Foundation, citing Coast
Guard and immigration records.

Sanchez organized a demonstration at the gates of the local Coast Guard station
and lawyers prepared a lawsuit, arguing that the bridge is part of the United
States and is therefore land. Within a few days, the 15 were rushed to Cuba,
before the case could go to court.

That is when Sanchez started his hunger strike, and when the governor called the
White House, and other politicians got involved. Sanchez's Democracy Movement,
whose aggressive philosophy has often collided with that of CANF, united with
all Cuban groups.

"Cuba is the most crucial issue that motivates us," Sanchez said. "Each family
has been divided."

That includes the families of Guerrero and Mariela Conesa, both of whom are
plaintiffs  in the lawsuit. Guerrero said that her cousin,  also a plaintiff,
lost her job and her home in Cuba for attempting the trip.

"They must leave," she said, speaking in Spanish. "Today they called them to the
Immigration Department for an interview. They will pressure them. They become
outcasts. They have no choice but to try to leave again."

The very idea sent shivers down Guerrero's spine as she recalled her own flight
from Cuba in a boat, in the dark, 14 years ago.

"It was a very difficult thing," she said, tearing. "I came with my 2-year-old
son. I would not want anyone to do that. It's not only the cold;  you feel death
very close, and even more so when you bring children."

Sanchez made the trip  when he was 16, and said he was willing to die of hunger
to make the voyage safer for others. He said he wants the committee to ask the
Coast Guard to halt its tactics of bumping boats and tackling refugees.

"They are victims in this, too," Sanchez said of the Coast Guard. "They are
forced to enforce this inhumane policy."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              209 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 20, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Irish Immigration Slips Into Reverse;
As Post-9/11 Security Increases Pressure on the Undocumented, Emerald Isle
Offers Haven

BYLINE: Michelle Garcia, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1003 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


By now the shipping container carrying Jonathan Langan's material life in the
United States has arrived in Ireland. The plush green furniture, his American
flag and the construction tools of his trade are all gone from his Queens
apartment.

Langan, a lanky, red-haired Irishman, was bidding a final farewell to his
adopted country. He didn't leave for want of work  --  his fledgling
construction company was booming. Success was his problem. The more prosperous
his company became, the more Langan feared he would get snared by  immigration
agents.

"You don't want to give off red flags because you're not supposed to be
working," said Langan, 24, who lived illegally in the United States for three
years. "It's too dangerous, what happens if you get caught."

The green is draining out of the Irish immigration boom that revitalized
neighborhoods across New York over the past two decades. Fear of getting caught
in a post-Sept. 11 net coupled with the booming economy in Ireland is drawing
thousands of Irish back to the Emerald Isle. Numbers vary on how many have left:
The Irish government estimates that about 14,000 Irish returned from the United
States since 2001, with more than half of them coming from New York. The Census
Bureau reported that between 2000 and 2004, the Irish population throughout the
United States shrank by 28,500 people, to 128,000.

A more vivid picture of the exodus is the Gaelic downtown of the northern Bronx,
on the border with Yonkers, where green signs and shamrocks decorate store
windows.

The Padded Wagon, a popular moving company among the Irish, shipped 30
containers to Ireland in the past three months, each containing the possessions
of an Irish family. The Irish games  --  Gaelic football and hurling  --  have
suffered losses. More than 200 players returned to Ireland in the past year,
said Seamus Dooley, president of the Gaelic Athletic Association, which has  its
games at Gaelic Park in the Bronx.

Last month, the Irish minister for social affairs visited New York, to unveil
"Returning to Ireland," a guide for Irish preparing for a permanent return trip.

"A travel agent was saying they had sold 1,700 one-way tickets to Ireland," said
Geraldine McNabb, an Irish-born naturalized citizen, while she sipped a
cranberry cocktail at a pub. "They're not coming back."

Post-Sept. 11 security procedures  have disrupted life for the city's
undocumented Irish, who number about 20,000, according to estimates by Irish
officials and activists. Few experience immigration raids in their homes and job
sites. In 2005 just 43 Irish nationals were deported from the United States,
none from the New York area, according to U.S. immigration officials.

But federal and state policy changes, the fingerprinting of foreign nationals at
airports and a crackdown on driver's licenses have made it much more difficult
to hop a plane to visit relatives or drive a car. And tighter scrutiny of
banking transactions to prevent the financing of terrorism has scared off
families and made starting a business far more dicey.

"What's more alarming to me is people who've been here for years and years are
packing up. Families are moving," said Nollaig Cleary, president of the women's
division of the New York Gaelic Athletic Association. "You've had the community
people who set up business and their families, they're going."

Brenda Flannagan, 31, immigrated illegally to the United States in her twenties,
looking for adventure. Now she has a husband and a baby, and is looking to
settle down. A trip back to Ireland to visit her parents could leave her open to
discovery by immigration officials  --  so she is going home for good.

Raising a child will only compound her difficulties here. "You can't drive. It
will get more difficult," said Flannagan, who expects to leave in the fall.
"Things like play dates and after-school activities."

With fewer immigrants pouring in, and so many Irish packing up, pub talk
revolves around the question of the survival of the Irish spirit in New York.
Irish immigrants poured in by the hundreds of thousands in the 19th century and
again in the early 20th century.

A third wave came in the 1980s when the Irish economy tanked, and it rejuvenated
Irish culture in New York, as politically inspired Irish rock and hip-hop bands
worked the club scene, and Irish theater and poetry spread throughout the city.

"You have a great Irish neighborhood beginning to crumble," said Niall O'Dowd,
publisher of the Irish Voice and chairman of the newly formed Irish Lobby for
Immigration Reform. "Unfortunately Americans are mixing up terrorism and
immigration."

The Irish, however, retain considerable political clout. Fifteen years ago, they
successfully lobbied Congress to direct tens of thousands of green cards into
the hands of undocumented Irish.

O'Dowd and other activists  recently rallied the fighting Irish spirits at Rory
Dolan's pub in Yonkers, as they begin lobbying for an immigration reform that
includes a path to citizenship.

The Irish government contributed 30,000 euros, ($40,000 at today's rate) to the
effort. Tim O'Connor, Ireland's consul general in New York, stresses that the
United States played a vital role in helping to stimulate Ireland's economic
boom with investments.

"It's in the interest of both countries that we have people who have the ability
to go back and forth between both countries," said O'Connor, noting that 15
percent of new businesses in Ireland were built by returning Irish.

Some Irish take their leave with optimism, looking to the jobs and construction
boom in their homeland.

"Everything is so good in Ireland," said Flannagan, while her husband, John, a
carpenter, was at the pub enjoying "a few sociables." "There's a lot of
construction work for the guys."

Flannagan held her baby girl, a U.S. citizen and last link to the United States.
"Maybe she can sponsor us when she's 21," she said. Then, she added, "I think
the notion of coming back, by then, will be gone."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2006



CORRECTION: A Feb. 20 article on Irish immigrants in the United States returning
home incorrectly converted euros to dollars. The Irish government has donated
30,000 euros toward efforts to change U.S. immigration policy. That equals about
$35,000, not $40,000.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              210 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 20, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' Homeland Burials Shrouded With Costs

BYLINE: Michelle Garcia, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Ever so carefully, the women wrapped tin cans with the newspaper photo of the
dead man. He had been a brother to one, a roommate to another. But this was not
the time to pray for his soul. Amalia Romano and her friends stepped onto a busy
boulevard in Brooklyn where sidewalk vendors specialize in mango con chile and
fresh juices, and they begged.

Their pitch went like this: Jose Luis Romano is dead. Street thugs robbed him of
10 bucks and his life. We need $3,000 to send his body home to Mexico.

"In circumstances like that, shame doesn't exist," said Amalia Romano, 32, her
brother's sole relative in the United States. "His wife, his children are in
Mexico. He should be there so they can visit his grave and at least put a
flower."

Immigrants may follow dreams, ambitions and love to the States, but death often
summons them home. Their return can be no less difficult and expensive, as a
majority of the new immigrant dead are young and working-class, and few carry
life insurance.

Last year, as the number of Mexicans leaving the United States in coffins
reached 9,000, the Mexican government slashed aid for repatriating the dead by
nearly half, to about $3.5 million, according to the Mexican Foreign Ministry.
To qualify, the family must prove it lacks the resources to pay.

Immigrant advocates are pushing back, demanding that Mexico and other foreign
countries provide more aid. They say that the dead made many sacrifices and that
most of their earnings flowed back to the mother country.

Oscar A. Chacon, a Salvadoran by birth and director of Enlaces America, an
immigrants' rights group, estimates that Salvadoran immigrants in the United
States send back $260 million every year, pouring $33.8 million in tax revenues
into government coffers in El Salvador.

Absent institutional help, immigrants often turn to networks of relatives and
friends. It is not uncommon for Spanish-language television newscasts in New
York to devote airtime to pitches from families trying to raise money to
repatriate a dead relative. Owners of social clubs, bars and bodegas often place
cans on their counters to solicit donations.

Death even becomes an organizing tool for immigrants. In New York, Italian,
Jewish and Greek immigrants transformed their burial societies into credit
unions and informal health insurance providers. "It's a one-time expense that
had to be socialized because few people had the money on hand," said Philip
Kasinitz, an immigration expert at the City University of New York.

The first fact of immigrant death that strikes an observer is how young the
deceased are. They arrive here without insurance and work long hours for little
pay, some in hazardous conditions. Few obtain medical care. Of the 360 Mexicans
who left New York City in caskets last year, most were between 20 and 40,
according to Yolanda Castro of the Mexican Consulate's legal protection
department.

The second fact of immigrant death is that it is cheaper to return bodies to the
homeland than to bury them here. A funeral and burial in New York City runs
about $9,000. Immigrants often begin by pressuring the government-owned or
-subsidized airlines for reduced prices. Twenty years ago, a collective of
working-class Irish in the Bronx waged a campaign to force Aer Lingus to reduce
prices.

John McDonagh, 51, a taxi driver and a host of Radio Free Eireann on the
Pacifica network, used his show to rip Aer Lingus for charging $2.50 per pound
to ship the dead. "I'd go on the air and give the price of cold cuts at the deli
to show how much they were charging," he said. "We were comparing roast beef and
cheese to the Irish body."

Aer Lingus agreed to waive the charges for indigent dead Irish on their way to
the homeland grave.

These days, other foreign governments have responded to similar demands by
encouraging their immigrants to find private-sector solutions. Brochures for
death certificates are stacked at Mexican consulates across the country. For
$50, a Los Angeles entrepreneur promises to collect a body at the morgue and
deliver it anywhere in Latin America.

Then there are the Bangladeshis, who have fallen back on the communal approach
favored by earlier generations of immigrants. On a sunny afternoon in Brooklyn,
midday prayers ended with 200 men dressed in crocheted skullcaps and Punjabi
gowns circling a casket outside a mosque. They chanted their farewell before a
swift trip from the Little Bangladesh neighborhood in Brooklyn to John F.
Kennedy International Airport. The family of the elderly woman will bear none of
the $3,000 cost for the airfare, the funeral service, the coffin and the burial.

The Bangladesh Society of New York takes care of that. Members each contribute
$2 a month and when their turn comes, the committee arranges for the return
trip. The government-owned airline, Biman Bangladesh Airlines, offers free
transport for the indigent dead. And, if you are a member of the organization,
Mofizur Rahman, a leader in the society, said with a grin, "everyone comes to
your funeral."

There were just a few dozen people at Jose Luis Romano's funeral. Romano, 40,
was a working man, earning his dollars as a dry-cleaning operator and sending
most of his salary to his family in Mexico. Even so, his sister hired a
videographer with the money she scraped together from friends to capture
mariachis performing "Amor Eterno," the Mexican farewell ballad.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              211 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 24, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Anti-Immigration Group to Meet in Herndon;
Some Fear Conference Could Cause Clashes in Home of Va. Day-Laborer Debate

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 553 words


About 300 followers of an organization labeled a "hate group" will gather at a
Herndon hotel today for a conference at which speakers will expound on what they
see as the global threat of immigration to whites and the moral and intellectual
differences among races.

American Renaissance, a Fairfax County-based journal, will hold its seventh
biennial conference at the Hyatt Dulles hotel. Its focus will be the "defense of
Western civilization," organizers said.

Immigrants are "changing [white] societies in ways that most white people don't
like," said Oakton resident Jared Taylor, the journal's editor.

The three-day conference has been held in Northern Virginia before. But some
observers fear its presence in Herndon  --  where recent controversy over a
day-laborer hiring center spawned protests  --  could bring trouble.

"Herndon suddenly has become a hotbed of discontent for anti-immigration
groups," said Mukit Hossain, founder of Project Hope and Harmony, which runs the
laborers' hiring center. "I am concerned with the potential for hate crime which
may be generated by events like this."

The workers' center will dispatch extra volunteers to help deal with any
conflict that might arise, director Bill Threlkeld said. Police in Herndon and
Fairfax County said they are aware of the conference but have no special plans
for it.

Activists plan to protest outside the Hyatt and counter-protest at the job
center if necessary, said Marco Del Fuego of the Olive Branch Community, a
District group that advocates for immigrants.

Taylor said fears of confrontations are unfounded. He said the conference is
being held in Herndon because it is convenient for many participants, whom he
called "middle-aged white guys in coats and ties."

American Renaissance, founded in 1989, promotes two policies, Taylor said:
stopping immigration and reversing all anti-discrimination laws.

The New Century Foundation, which publishes the journal, is considered a hate
group by the Southern Poverty Law Center, said Mark Potok, editor of the
center's intelligence report.

"Basically, this is a batch of gussied-up white supremacists, but they are very
much the button-down crowd," Potok said.

This year's conference has attracted more registrants than ever, Taylor said. He
attributed interest in part to speakers, who include Nick Griffin, chairman of
the anti-immigration British National Party, who was acquitted this month of
inciting racial hatred during a speech in which he called Islam a "wicked,
vicious faith." Taylor also credited it to what he called an awakening by whites
to "the crisis they face as a group."

Barry Mehler, a professor at Ferris State University in Michigan and executive
director of the Institute for the Study of Academic Racism, said the journal
attracts arguments linking race and intelligence that have been "overwhelmingly
rejected" by most scholars.

Still, Mehler and Potok said a more conservative political climate and a
mounting public backlash over immigration in recent years have provided fertile
terrain for opposition to multiculturalism.

"The idea that America is losing its cultural identity because of immigration
--  those are ideas that they have embraced for a long time," Mehler said. Now,
he said, the ideas "resonate with a larger audience."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              212 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Credit Unions Open Branch For Latinos

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 369 words


Three local credit unions will open a joint branch tomorrow to serve the Latino
community in Mount Pleasant in an effort to lower prices for financial
transactions in the neighborhood.

District Government Employees Federal Credit Union, the Organization of American
States Staff Federal Credit Union and IDB-IIC Federal Credit Union, a credit
union affiliated with the Inter-American Development Bank, are calling the
branch Acceso, "access" in Spanish. They want to draw Hispanic customers from
the fee-charging check cashing and money transfer companies that many immigrants
rely on.

"Our mission is to bring those folks who are under-banked and underserved to the
financial mainstream," said OAS credit union president Carlos R. Calderón.

The credit unions  --  which are nonprofit  --  said they are trying to adapt
their prices and policies to meet the needs of Latino immigrants in the
neighborhood. For example, Acceso will accept foreign identification cards, such
as those issued by Mexico's consulate, so undocumented immigrants can become
members and open savings accounts. Loan officers will evaluate credit risk for
auto and home loans not just through credit reports, but by taking into account
if applicants pay rent on time or send money home regularly.

Mount Pleasant and nearby Adams Morgan and Columbia Heights are about 25 percent
Hispanic and at least half of the residents there do not have bank accounts,
according to estimates by the District Government Employees Federal Credit Union
based on a neighborhood survey conducted in 2004.

Yet, about three-fourths of the District's Latino immigrants send money to
relatives regularly, according to the Inter-American Development Bank. For about
$9, members will be able to send up to $1,000 to Mexico, a fee lower than the
industry average. Western Union charges $30 to send that amount, according to
the company's Web site.

If this branch is successful, credit union officials said they would like to
expand Acceso into other Latino communities in Virginia and Maryland.

Money transfer and check cashing firms say established customer relationships
and longer business hours will make them competitive despite lower credit union
prices.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              213 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Confusion

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 471 words


THERE WILL come a point in the debate over President Bush's  proposed temporary
worker program for immigrants when those who favor the idea  in principle will
have to ask themselves whether a bad bill is better than none at all. Today, as
the Senate Judiciary Committee begins discussion of a compromise proposal, that
point is getting awfully close.

The bill on the table, a proposal put together by  Judiciary Committee Chairman
Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), is not all bad. Like the legislation sponsored by Sens.
John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M.  Kennedy (D-Mass.)  --  the most
comprehensive attempt at  immigration reform to date  --  the bill would create
a new temporary work visa. Those who obtained  the visa could enter the country
to do jobs that employers could not find Americans to fill, and they could
remain for up to six years. The bill would also allow the 11 million
undocumented immigrants  already in the country to apply for temporary residency
status after paying a fee and undergoing background and employment checks. As an
attempt to find a compromise on immigration acceptable to all, the draft is
laudable.

But the devil is in the details, and the details, unfortunately, are worrisome.
In particular, we're concerned  that in its current form, Mr. Specter's proposal
could create a huge class of permanent guest workers: Neither current illegal
residents, nor future holders of the temporary work visa, would in practice be
able to acquire green cards or citizenship if this bill became law, no matter
how long they remained here. Still worse are the impractical enforcement
measures that Mr. Specter has included, presumably  to mollify the
anti-immigrant wing of his party. These put huge new responsibilities on local
and state law enforcement agencies for arresting and deporting illegal
immigrants, as well as adding multiple bureaucratic obstacles  to the
citizenship and visa processes.

Unfortunately, it's far from clear that the bill will be improved, either by the
Judiciary Committee or by the Senate as a whole. Some committee members will
propose changes that might ameliorate problems; others are readying lists of
amendments that would make the bill even worse, such as a proposal to eliminate
the right of children born in this country to U.S. citizenship. There is still
room for compromise: Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) has proposed, for example, to
divide the 11 million illegal immigrants into different groups based on their
employment status and how long they've been in this country. But if no
compromise   is reached, it's hard to see how this bill is even worth passing.
Surely the worst possible solution is to accept that the United States  will
host a permanent underclass of foreign workers with no political rights, living
in permanent fear of all legal authorities.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              214 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 3, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

On Immigration and Ports, Turning Inward

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A Section; A02 , WASHINGTON SKETCH Dana Milbank

LENGTH: 863 words


The nativists are getting restless on Capitol Hill.

In a Dirksen Building hearing room, Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) kicked off
yesterday morning with a tirade against immigrant day laborers. "Nobody raises
any question about the illegality of people right out on Main Street, Washington
D.C., illegal, waiting to get a job!" Grassley shouted to fellow members of the
Judiciary Committee as they contemplated immigration legislation.

Poking the air with his finger and bumping his microphone, the Iowan continued:
"I don't even know if they get paid. Some of them are probably slave laborers."

Three hours later and at the opposite end of the Capitol complex, Rep. Duncan
Hunter (R-Calif.), chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, was similarly
agitated over the notion of foreigners owning vital U.S. assets. "We should
require critical U.S. infrastructure to remain in U.S. hands," the chairman told
his committee in its Rayburn Building hearing room. "To those who say my views
smack of protectionism, I say: America is worth protecting."

The issues were entirely different. Grassley wants to block a "guest worker"
program that could allow illegal immigrants to become legal. Hunter is reacting
to the sale of U.S. port operations to Dubai. But both spoke for an America
turning inward.

The shift defies the usual categories. In the ports case, Democrats are leading
the effort to raise the drawbridge. On immigration, Republicans are digging the
moat. In both cases, President Bush is the lonely internationalist, aided only
by the likes of Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.). It is, after all, difficult to match
the other side's visceral anger.

At yesterday's House hearing, a pair of experts tried to redirect the lawmakers'
fury. "This commercial transaction will not qualitatively affect the overall
state of global and American maritime transportation security," testified
Stephen Flynn of the Council on Foreign Relations. While condemning overall port
security, he called the current battle "a political food fight."

The Heritage Foundation's James Carafano cautioned: "I don't find any compelling
security concerns here."

Hunter was incredulous. "How can you possibly say that you didn't see in this
particular case, in this particular deal, a security problem?" he demanded,
calling the United Arab Emirates "accommodators" who "accommodate people that
come to them with large amounts of cash."

Carafano pointed out that most shipping operations are foreign-owned anyway.

"Let me stop you at that," Hunter said, again calling the UAE greedy. "Are you
sure you can say, from a security standpoint, that the ownership is irrelevant?"

Carafano could. "The system is really ownership-irrelevant," he replied.

Hunter interrupted again, but Carafano was unmoved. "You don't need to buy a $7
billion company to penetrate maritime security," he said. "The Mafia doesn't buy
FedEx to smuggle."

Back at the Dirksen Building, advocates of a plan to legalize some immigrant
workers were having similar difficulty overcoming the fury of their opponents.
Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), who included a guest-worker provision in his
legislation, said it is  necessary to bring 11 million illegal aliens "out of
the shadows."

But the very notion enraged his colleague Grassley, who called Specter's plan "a
wink and a nod to amnesty" for illegals. "If it looks acts and smells like
amnesty then it is amnesty," he protested, saying the program "denigrates the
value of citizenship." In addition to his tirade about "Main Street Washington,"
he railed against "Bahama-like mailbox corporations."

At the end of his stemwinder, Grassley observed that his end was missing. "I see
my staff took the bottom line away from me, because I probably shouldn't have
said it," he confessed.

Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) pleaded for understanding, reminding Grassley that
"there are four of us who are first-generation Americans" on the committee.

This produced a round of me-too statements. "My grandparents came here as
immigrants," volunteered Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) "My
great-great-great-great-grandfather was an immigrant, I'm proud to say," offered
Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.). "The last one got here about 1850."

"Did they miss the Civil War, Senator?" Specter inquired.

"Lincoln killed one of them at Antietam," the senator from Alabama rejoined.

But Sessions was unyielding in his opposition to legalization, saying more
immigration would "drive down the wages and lifestyle of the American people."

Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), another opponent of a guest-worker program, put it in
a broader, protectionist context. "The lower middle income in this country is
not moving up," he said, blaming both immigration and trade. "Our technology is
being stolen every day by China."

It was difficult to argue against these emotional appeals. Sen. Lindsey Graham
(R-S.C.), an internationalist, didn't really try.

In a brief speech, he said he favors the guest-worker idea. "The idea of dealing
with 11 million people as if they don't exist is unrealistic," Graham said.
"America needs to mature on this issue. . . . Demagoguing it is no longer an
option for me."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              215 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 6, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

America's Immigration Advantage

BYLINE: Marcelo M. Suarez-Orozco

SECTION: Editorial; A15

LENGTH: 778 words


As Congress gears up for another round of immigration debate, it is instructive
to place the recent American experience in context. How do we compare to the
other side of the Atlantic, which is wrestling with its own immigration
dilemmas? There are three major areas of difference between this country and
Europe.

First, in Europe, the combination of the welfare state and the job ceiling that
immigrants face is creating a huge problem for the second generation, which
receives fairly good schooling but then crashes into a wall of discrimination
and racism in the labor market. Algerian French citizens with good French
educations  simply cannot find jobs commensurate with their educational
credentials and achievements, because of their last names or physical
appearance. One cannot underestimate the frustration this produces.

In the United States there is a powerful segmentation in the labor market
according to one's education, but for many immigrants moving to this country,
America can be a dream realized when it comes to achieving educational success
and rewards in the job market.

Furthermore, about a third of all immigrants arrive in  this country with
college degrees, a "gift" in free human capital to the U.S. economy estimated to
be in the order of $50 billion per year. Every fall when I was teaching "Latino
Cultures" at Harvard College, I would ask the 100 or so eager undergraduates,
"How many of you are immigrants or the children of immigrants?" Some two-thirds
would raise their hands. While the United States surely has problems educating
immigrant youngsters and easing their transition into the labor market, they do
not approach those in Europe, where unemployment among the second generation
approaches 50 percent in some cities.

Second, in most European countries formal immigration stopped in the early
1970s, and immigration is now mostly driven by asylum-seeking and marriage. In
Europe today immigration is  patterned by kinship and social structures that
favor arranged marriages and marriage within the group. It is common for
second-generation Kurdish or Afghan  girls in Stockholm to end up marrying
cousins back in Kurdistan or Afghanistan so that the men can migrate to Europe.
This has two immediate effects: It prevents the immigrants from crossing a most
cherished threshold of social integration  --  marriage with people of the new
country  --  and it replenishes the cultural traditions of the old country as
newly arrived villagers settle in European cities.

In contrast, immigrants in the United States have always, over many years,
gravitated to marriage outside their own groups (a dynamic sometimes called
"ethnic flight")  --  from Jews marrying Christians and Japanese marrying whites
to Latinos marrying African Americans.

Third, in countries such as Denmark, Sweden and Germany, immigrants have no
place in the cultural narrative of the nation. In the United States, immigration
is at the  center of the quasi-sacred narrative accounting for how we came to be
the country we are today. The United States is one of only a handful of advanced
democracies that can claim immigration as both history and destiny. Immigrants
built the nation, and the immigrant second generation is now the fastest-growing
demographic sector of the population. Today immigrants proudly enter the
mainstream through hyphenated identities: We talk about Mexican Americans,
Haitian Americans, Irish Americans and Chinese Americans as natural categories
of belonging to the American tapestry. When I was teaching  in Paris a few years
ago, I asked my students, "Do you talk about Tunisian-French, Algerian-French or
Turkish-Germans here in Europe?" There was an uncomfortable silence. "You don't
understand; we are all French," was the polite answer of a shy graduate student.

Immigrants thus face a double bind: They are asked to be French while not really
allowed to fully join the new society in terms of jobs and the opportunity
structure.

In the United States, the current anxiety is over illegal immigration. In Europe
the continuing concerns are cultural practices  --  within-group marriage,
arranged marriages, free speech, equality between the sexes in Muslim immigrant
communities, and the separation of religion from the political process  --  all
of which, when combined with enduring European xenophobia and labor market
discrimination, will prove to be much harder to address, let alone fix.

The writer, co-founder of the Harvard Immigration Project, is now  a university
professor and co-director of immigration studies at New York University. He is
the co-author of "Children of Immigration."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              216 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Build a Fence -- And Amnesty

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 929 words


It's time to build a real fence or a wall along every foot of the 1,989 miles of
the U.S.-Mexican border. There can be only two arguments against this approach
to keeping out illegal immigrants: (1) it won't work  --  possible, but we won't
know unless we try; or (2) we don't want it to work  --  then, we should say so
and open our borders to anyone but criminals and terrorists. Either way, we need
more candor in our immigration debates. Now is the time, because Congress is
considering its first major immigration legislation in years.

In 2005 the Border Patrol stopped 1.19 million people trying to enter the United
States illegally; 98.5 percent of them were caught along the southern border. Of
those who got through and stayed (crude estimate: some 500,000 annually), about
two-thirds lack a high school education. Even a country as accepting of
newcomers as the United States cannot effortlessly absorb infinite numbers of
poor and unskilled workers. Legal immigration totals 750,000 to 1 million people
annually, many of them also unskilled.

I do not like advocating a fence. It looks and feels bad. It's easily
stigmatized as racist. It would antagonize Mexico. The imagery is appalling, but
it beats the alternative: a growing underclass and social tensions. Moreover, a
genuine fence would probably work. The construction of about 10 miles of steel
and concrete barriers up to 15 feet high in San Diego has reduced illegal
crossings in that sector by about 95 percent since 1992, reports Rep. Duncan
Hunter (R-Calif.), a supporter of a U.S.-Mexico fence. Sure, there will be
tunnels and ladders. But getting in will be harder. Policing will be easier.

We also need to stiffen employer fines for hiring illegal immigrants. Businesses
should have to check prospective workers against computer databases with Social
Security numbers, passports or immigration documents. Now employers only have to
inspect physical documents, which are easily forged. Even these lax rules are
widely flouted and poorly policed. In 2004 the Department of Homeland Security
cited only three employers for possible violations, says the Government
Accountability Office. With an estimated 10 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants in the United States, that's mighty slim.

Fewer jobs and genuine border control ought to curb illegal immigration. Good.
Naturally, there's another point of view. It is that the United States needs
more unskilled workers to fill jobs native-born Americans won't take. One
solution is to admit more unskilled workers legally. By this view, Hispanics are
assimilating economically and culturally as fast as some groups in the past.

Perhaps. But common sense and available evidence suggest skepticism. If there
are "shortages" of unskilled American workers, the obvious remedy is to raise
their wages. A Texas roofing contractor testified to Congress that he couldn't
get enough roofers at $9 an hour. Okay, increase it to $10 or $12. Higher wages
will bring forth more workers. Perish the thought. Business groups, led by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, clamor for more guest workers. That's a euphemism for
cheap labor. These business groups seem unperturbed by extravagant increases in
chief executives'  pay. But they're horrified by anything that might raise the
wages of maids, waitresses, laborers or gardeners.

As for assimilation, it's true that millions of Hispanic families are moving
into  --  and reshaping  --  the American mainstream. But average trends look
less encouraging. Since 1990 about 90 percent of the increase in people living
below the government's poverty lines has come among Hispanics. That has to be
mainly immigrants and their U.S.-born children. In a report, the Pew Hispanic
Center notes:

*  Residential segregation is increasing. In 2000, 43 percent of Hispanics lived
in neighborhoods with Hispanic majorities, up from 39 percent in 1990.

*  The median net worth of Hispanic households is about 9 percent of that of
non-Hispanic whites (net worth is what people own minus what they owe).

*  Only about a quarter of Hispanic college students graduate compared with
about half for non-Hispanic whites.

Assimilation takes time. The big difference between today's Hispanic inflows and
past immigration waves is that those stopped. History or restrictive laws
intervened. There was time for newcomers to adapt. Left alone, there's no
obvious reason why the present Hispanic immigration should even pause. Today's
unskilled arrivals make it harder for yesterday's to get ahead. The two compete.
In 2004 the already-low median wages for foreign-born Hispanics dropped 1.6
percent, reports Rakesh Kochhar of the Pew Center.

There's a paradox. To make immigration succeed, we need to curb some
immigration. That's why it's vital to control our border. It also explains why
it's important not to "solve" that problem merely by legalizing these huge
inflows. Unfortunately, the legislation being considered by the Senate Judiciary
Committee would do precisely that. Among other things, it would create a
virtually open-ended guest worker program.

If we control new inflows, we should legalize the illegal immigrants already
here. Many have American-born children, who are U.S. citizens. It is not
desirable or ethical to force most illegal immigrants to leave. Yes, they broke
the law, but we were complicit by making the law so easy to break. Their present
shadowy status deprives them of rights and exposes them to exploitation. We
should want the melting pot to work  --  and fear that it might come to a boil.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              217 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 521 words


MIAMI  --  A Cuban militant accused of masterminding the 1976 bombing of a Cuban
airliner will remain in U.S. immigration custody for the immediate future, but
efforts to deport him to a country willing to accept him will continue,
officials said.

Luis Posada Carriles was arrested in Miami in May after illegally entering the
United States through Mexico. He is being held by U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in El Paso.

ICE issued a statement saying that Posada will not be released from its custody
"at this time" and that further review is needed to determine where he could be
sent.

A federal immigration judge ruled last fall that Posada could not be deported to
Cuba or Venezuela, citing the possibility he could be tortured.

Posada's attorney in Miami, Eduardo Soto, said that the decision appears to be
an attempt to keep Posada in custody indefinitely without just cause, and that
he plans to ask a federal court to free his client.

*  GULFPORT, Miss.  --  Two construction workers drowned during a demolition
project at the hurricane-ravaged Grand Casino Gulfport, authorities said. The
men were pumping water out of a portion of the casino barge that collapsed
during Hurricane Katrina. Officials believe the two, working in water about six
feet deep, became trapped in a tight space Tuesday. The Harrison County
coroner's office identified the men as Tim Fitzgerald, 49, of Newport News and
Miguel Hidalgo-Soberano, 48, of Cardenas Tabasco, Mexico.

*  NEW YORK  --  A bouncer with a long rap sheet has been charged with murder in
the slaying of Imette St. Guillen, a graduate student who was raped, strangled
and dumped last month in a desolate section of Brooklyn, a law enforcement
official  said.   An announcement of a murder indictment against Darryl
Littlejohn, 41, is expected Thursday, the official said, speaking on the
condition of anonymity because the indictment was still sealed.

*  MILWAUKEE  --  Police walked shoulder to shoulder through wooded areas and
dive teams searched the sewers in an escalating search for two young boys who
disappeared while playing together Sunday. Purvis Parker, 11, and Quadrevion
Henning, 12, do not have a history of running away, a police spokeswoman said.

*  SAYRE, Pa.  --   A dancer and  drum maker  who became infected with anthrax
danced for reporters in a hospital auditorium, showing off his remarkable
recovery from a rare and usually fatal form of the disease. Vado Diomande, 44,
of New York City collapsed more than a month ago during a dance performance in
Pennsylvania. Health officials believe he may have inhaled anthrax spores from
the African animal hides he uses to make drums.

*  NEW YORK  --  He's one tourist city officials hope won't be coming back. A
wily coyote paid a visit to the big city, leading dozens of police officers on
foot and in a helicopter on a loping chase through Central Park before being
captured. Officials said the tawny-colored animal, nicknamed Hal by park
workers, was about a year old and weighed around 35 pounds. The animal will be
taken to a wildlife center outside the city.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              218 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

500,000 March in L.A. Against Immigration Bill;
Measure Was Passed by U.S. House

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES March 25


They surprised the police, and maybe themselves, their T-shirts turning block
after block of downtown Los Angeles streets white in a demonstration so massive
that few causes in recent U.S. history could have matched it.

Police said more than 500,000 people marched Saturday to protest a proposed
federal crackdown on illegal immigration. Wearing white as a sign of peace  --
and waving flags from the United States, Mexico, Guatemala and other countries
--  they came to show that illegal immigrants are already part of the American
fabric, and want the chance to be legal, law-abiding citizens.

Police used helicopters to come up with the crowd estimate. "I've been on the
force 38 years, and I've never seen a rally this big," said Cmdr. Louis Gray
Jr., incident commander for the rally.

In Charlotte, between 5,000 and 7,000 people gathered Saturday carrying signs
with slogans such as "Am I Not a Human Being?" In Sacramento, more than 4,000
people protested during a march honoring the late farm labor leader Cesar
Chavez. In Denver, more than 50,000 people protested downtown, according to
police who had expected only a few thousand.

Phoenix was similarly surprised Friday when an estimated 20,000 people gathered
for one of the biggest demonstrations in city history, and more than 10,000
marched in Milwaukee on Thursday.

The demonstrators oppose legislation passed by the U.S. House that would make it
a felony to be in the United States illegally. It would also impose new
penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants, require churches to check
the legal status of parishioners before helping them, and order the construction
of fences along one-third of the U.S.-Mexican border.

"I think it's just inhumane. . . . Everybody deserves the right to a better
life," said Elger Aloy of Riverside, 26, who brought his infant son to the Los
Angeles march.

Many of the demonstrators who weren't immigrants said they have relatives who
are. "My mom came from Mexico. She had to cross the river, and thank God she
did," said David Gonzalez, 22. He rejected assertions by advocates of the
legislation that it would help protect the nation from terrorism. He said it
would hurt Hispanics the most.

The Senate is to begin debating immigration proposals Tuesday.

President Bush is pushing for a guest-worker program that could provide
temporary legal status to some of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.
Many of his fellow Republicans are taking a more restrictive stance.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              219 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Heating Up With Hot-Button Issues

BYLINE: Charles Babington

SECTION: A Section; A21 , IN SESSION Charles Babington

LENGTH: 698 words


As if the debates over immigration and the Iraq  war weren't contentious enough,
Congress is about to embark on some really hot-button issues: flag burning,
same-sex marriage and censuring the president.

The Senate Judiciary Committee has scheduled a Friday hearing on Sen. Russell
Feingold's resolution to censure President Bush for authorizing warrantless
surveillance of Americans' international phone calls and e-mails.  The measure
has divided Feingold's fellow Democrats, some of whom fear he is helping
Republicans shift attention from the GOP's problems in dealing with Iraq,
hurricane relief and other matters.

But Feingold (Wis.) is unapologetic, commending Committee Chairman Arlen Specter
(R-Pa.) for scheduling the hearing. "He recognizes the importance and
seriousness of the issue," Feingold said yesterday. "The president broke the
law, and this hearing is an important step towards Congress holding him
accountable."

Needless to say, not all lawmakers agree that Bush broke the law, and the issue
should get a good airing this morning in a separate hearing before Specter's
panel. Four federal judges are slated to discuss proposals to bring the
eavesdropping program, which is conducted by the National Security Agency, under
the auspices of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.

The 1978 act established a secret court to consider the government's warrant
requests to wiretap Americans. Bush says his constitutional powers permit him to
order such surveillance without warrants when terrorism is suspected.

Some of the judges have served on the FISA court. Also scheduled to testify
today are Morton H. Halperin of the Open Society Policy Center and David S.
Kris, senior vice president of Time Warner Inc.

Meanwhile, interest groups on the left and right are preparing for showdowns
over flag desecration and  same-sex marriage in June, when Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) has scheduled floor votes on the
always-controversial issues. Both efforts call for constitutional amendments,
which require a two-thirds majority vote in the House and the Senate, followed
by ratification by three-fourths of the states.

Frist, who is weighing a 2008 presidential bid, often touts the proposed
amendment to define marriage  as the union of one man and one woman. The effort
failed in both houses in 2004. The Senate fell 12 votes short of the number
needed to cut off debate, and House supporters could not muster the two-thirds
majority they needed in their chamber.

As for protecting the American flag, some conservatives have sought a
constitutional amendment since 1990. That is when the Supreme Court affirmed its
view that flag burning is a form of protected political speech. The House has
backed a constitutional amendment to bar flag desecration in previous
Congresses, but the Senate has not complied.

Some Democrats ask why Frist is spending time on long-shot constitutional
matters when Congress is struggling over immigration, the deficit, tax policies
and other issues.

"It's that time of the year to throw a little red meat to the base," said Jim
Manley, spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.). "We need to
focus on the American people's priorities."

Frist spokesman Bob Stevenson said that is exactly what his boss is doing. The
flag-protection amendment "is the number-one issue on veterans' agenda,"
Stevenson said yesterday. And the bid to ban same-sex marriage requires federal
action, he said, because numerous courts have rejected state legislatures'
efforts to do so.

"We don't have the option of putting this off," Stevenson said.

Three House Republicans have joined three Democrats in calling for an extensive
floor debate on the Iraq war.

GOP Reps. Wayne T. Gilchrest (Md.), Walter B. Jones Jr. (N.C.) and Ron Paul
(Tex.) last week joined Democratic Reps. Neil Abercrombie (Hawaii), Ike Skelton
(Mo.) and Martin T. Meehan (Mass.) in signing a letter to colleagues urging "an
open and honest debate on the future of U.S. policy in Iraq." They want a
"discharge petition" for Abercrombie's stalled resolution that would require
Bush to "develop and implement a plan for the withdrawal" of U.S. troops.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              220 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Students Walk Out in 2nd Day Of Immigration Rights Protest;
Seven Area High Schools Affected

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour and Maria Glod, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 675 words


Chanting, "Sí, se puede," ("Yes, we can") and carrying "Latino Power" signs,
hundreds of Northern Virginia high school students demonstrated for a second day
yesterday against legislation that would crack down on illegal immigrants.

In Prince William County, about 350 students protested outside Freedom High
School in Woodbridge. In Fairfax County, dozens of students marched out of JE.B.
Stuart High School and into Arlington County, where they stopped at two more
high schools, adding students at each stop.

Opponents of the legislation have demonstrated across the country, including
500,000 people in Los Angeles on Saturday. The legislation, passed by the House
of Representatives, would make it a felony to be in the United States illegally
and make it a crime to help illegal immigrants.

The Fairfax march started at Stuart High in the Falls Church area about 9 a.m.
"We started getting bigger, so we left the school," said Louie Martinez, 16, a
sophomore at Stuart, whose student body is 40 percent Latino. "We were like,
'We'll just keep walking.' We're showing the government we're big."

The group marched to Wakefield High School and then, followed by police cars
that blocked traffic, marched several miles up George Mason Drive to
Washington-Lee High School.

After police told them they would be arrested if they strayed onto the
Washington-Lee campus, the protesters demonstrated at a park across the street.

The school's doors were locked to prevent outsiders from entering, and at noon
Principal Gregg Robertson announced that students who left would have unexcused
absences. Still, about 40 students left to join the protest, which swelled to
around 200 people.

School officials did not try to stop them. "Part of the Washington-Lee mission
is to encourage students to take an active role in their community," Robertson
said. As with earlier demonstrations, word of the protests was spread by
cellphone and the Web site MySpace.com. Some students said they learned about
the immigration debate from newspapers or in class. Others said friends
convinced them that many of the proposals were unfair.

Raeshwan Greene, 17, a senior at Wakefield, which is 43.7 percent Latino, said:
"Half of my friends came here a few years ago. . . . People have forgotten the
meaning of America."

Caitlin Thomson, 17, a junior at Wakefield, said: "These people have worked
really hard to get here. There might be economic problems or a dictatorship.
People want to be free and have a new life. That's what we learn in history
class."

Some had more personal connections to the issue. Ephram Lopez, 16, a sophomore
at Stuart, is U.S.-born, but he worries that his mother, a baker, could be sent
back to her native Guatemala.

"They are trying to deport her," Lopez said. "It's going to take her away from
me and my two little brothers."

Lopez said everyone's quality of life in the Washington area is improved by
immigrants. "We work at fast food restaurants. We paint houses. We mow lawns.
Most people work without papers."

In Prince William, in addition to students from Freedom High School, many young
people waving Mexican and El Salvadoran flags said they were from C.D. Hylton,
Gar-Field and Woodbridge high schools, all in the eastern section of the county,
where many Latinos live.

The students marched down Route 1 to Todos Supermarket, operated by Carlos
Castro, a Salvadoran immigrant.

Arlington County Board member Walter Tejada (D), who joined the demonstration at
Washington-Lee, said the students had been "itching to have their voices heard."

"They know that this bill unfairly cuts the legs of the working immigrant
community," he said.

Christian Dorn, 16, a Salvadoran and a junior at Potomac High School in
Dumfries, said the demonstrations had proved something.

"It got the word out that we're not going to be quiet," she said. "It's similar
to what the African Americans did in the 1960s. . . . We shouldn't be treated
like criminals."

Staff writers Ian Shapira and Jamie Stockwell contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              221 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

New Immigrants Teach an Old Lesson

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 722 words


Every so often, for good or ill, Los Angeles astonishes itself. Twice in the
past half-century, the city that most embodied the post-World War II American
dream was racked by massive racial rioting that shook the city to its core.
Twice in the past half-century, L.A. also became the first American mega-city to
elevate minority politicians to its top office  --  electing as its mayor the
African American Tom Bradley in 1973 and the Latino Antonio Villaraigosa in
2005, in both instances with heavy white support.

This past Saturday Los Angeles stunned itself yet again as more than a
half-million largely Latino, preponderantly immigrant demonstrators jammed the
streets of downtown to protest the draconian and xenophobic immigration bill
that House Republicans passed late last year. Commentators have noted that this
was the city's largest demonstration in recent decades, which is a little like
characterizing a storm that drops five feet of snow in the Hollywood Bowl as
unusually inclement weather. In fact, Los Angeles had never seen anything like
Saturday's outpouring, which flooded downtown with more than 500,000 totally
peaceful  demonstrators.

L.A. has never been a city for public outpourings of any kind; that's not been
the Angeleno way. But somehow nobody remembered to tell this to L.A.'s huge
immigrant population, and on Saturday, in all ignorance of the city's culture of
noninvolvement, they redefined my hometown.

Of course, they've actually been redefining Los Angeles in less spectacular ways
for the past 20 years, as anyone who's looked at a construction site or an
office building's janitorial crew or the student body of any L.A. public school
can attest. But the role that the immigrant population has played in
transforming the city's political culture still isn't widely understood.

At Saturday's march, for instance, all 500 marshals were provided by Local 1877
of the Service Employees International Union  --  the janitors union. Six years
ago, the janitors galvanized Los Angeles with a successful three-week strike in
which they paraded down the city's streets and encountered  --  yet another
moment of civic astonishment  --  motorists who, though delayed by the marches,
honked in support and cheered them on. Throughout their strike, the janitors
also had the backing of virtually every L.A.-area elected official, and for good
reason: They had helped put them in office.

For in the election-season endeavors of the L.A. labor movement, it's the
janitors and the hotel workers  --  local unions made up disproportionately of
non-citizen immigrant members  --  who walk the most precincts and make the most
phone calls. Their civic participation, and that of their fellow immigrant
activists in other unions, is one reason why California became so blue a state,
with such a heavily Democratic House delegation, in the late 1990s.

Now, in the wake of Saturday's march, the political clout of these low-wage,
can't-vote immigrants has reached all the way to the U.S. Senate. In part that's
because they command the support of immigrants who can vote. In polling of the
nation's immigrant population released yesterday (and conducted in nine
languages), legal immigrants opposed key provisions of the House bill by
overwhelming margins (73 percent opposed arresting undocumented immigrants as
felons) and backed paths to legalization similar to those passed by the Senate
Judiciary Committee on Monday. After all, the legal immigrants are often
relatives of the illegal ones.

On the whole, L.A.'s immigrant-labor-Latino alliance is mercifully bereft of
nationalist demagogues. More than once, immigrant-dominated districts have voted
for non-Latino labor liberals over their Latino opponents. Villaraigosa, who
addressed Saturday's rally, speaks more of a common good than of particularist
ones, and enjoys the support of every ethnic group in town.

Which is not to say that L.A. has overcome its rifts of class, race and
language. The non-Latino city and the English-language media were plainly
stunned by the magnitude of Saturday's protest  --  though on balance, it's hard
to imagine a more healthy surprise. In laid-back Los Angeles, it's the
immigrants who are forging a culture of civic activism, and teaching Angelenos
how to be engaged Americans.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              222 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The GOP Walks A Border Tightrope

BYLINE: Ruth Marcus

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 924 words


Karl Rove must be seeing Pete Wilson in his nightmares.

President Bush's architect has been laboring to build up the GOP among Hispanic
voters, and he's been succeeding: Bush won more than 40 percent of the Hispanic
vote in 2004, double the level attained by Bob Dole eight years earlier. Some of
that is attributable to Hispanic voters' particular affinity for Bush, a former
border state governor. But the change has been marked enough to make some smart
Democrats fear they're at risk of losing their hold on a large and fast-growing
slice of voters.

Now, though, with thousands demonstrating against a House-passed immigration
bill that is all crackdown and no mercy, Rove's project is imperiled. The GOP
--  riven between an enforcement-only approach and Bush's kinder, gentler
immigration reform  --  is risking a national repeat of Wilson's experience as
governor of California over a decade ago.

Wilson pushed for Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative to deny state services to
illegal immigrants, and won  --  with disastrous results for the California GOP.
Hispanic turnout in the next election surged, and the GOP's share of the
Hispanic vote fell, from 31 percent between 1988 and 1994 to 23 percent from
1996 through 2000.

The current immigration debate, said Leslie Sanchez, who advises Republicans on
Hispanic issues, "is Prop. 187 on steroids. It's real easy for a lot of my
fellow Republican pollsters to say, 'This is red meat for conservatives, let's
go out and pound this issue.' The deeper ramifications are that it turns off
women and other ethnic minorities and turns on Hispanics, who are now mobilized
against us."

Former Republican National Committee chairman Ed Gillespie invokes as well the
more recent experience of Virginia gubernatorial candidate Jerry Kilgore, who
ran anti-immigration ads and lost. "Anti-immigration rhetoric is a political
siren's song, and Republicans must resist its lure . . . or our majority will
crash on its shoals," he told the Federalist Society last week.

The difficulty for Republicans, though, is that their short-term political
interests  --  winning in November  --  are arguably at odds with their
long-term viability as a majority party. Their base is demoralized about the
party's performance and riled up about immigration. Pushing for tough
restrictions and resisting anything that has the whiff of leniency toward those
who entered the country illegally may be the best way for Republicans to get
their voters to the polls in November. And the recent protests, as unnerving as
they are for Rove's dream of a GOP-inclined Hispanic electorate, also have the
perverse effect of further enraging those already inflamed about immigration.

"White suburban voters who voted for George Bush are disaffected now," says
Republican pollster Tony Fabrizio. "Would I rather be talking about immigration
reform with these voters or the war? Immigration reform or gasoline prices?
Sometimes, in order to avoid or avert the tidal wave, you have to do things that
short-term make a little more sense than they do in the long term."

Public polls bear out Fabrizio's assessment. A recent NBC-Wall Street Journal
poll, for example, found that 71 percent of voters said they would be more
likely to favor a candidate who supports tighter controls on immigration; just
11 percent said that would tilt them to oppose. The percentage of voters who
said the government was not doing enough to secure the nation's  borders has
gone from 54 percent in November 2001 to 78 percent, according to a Fox News
poll.

And voters, especially Republicans, are hostile to proposals to ease the legal
path for those in the country illegally. A February poll by the Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute showed 62 percent (71 percent of Republicans and 55
percent of Democrats) opposed to making it easier for illegal immigrants to
become citizens. A narrower majority, 54 percent (59 percent of Republicans, 52
percent of Democrats) opposed making it easier for illegal immigrants to work
here. Some strategists argue that voters would support stepped-up enforcement
plus reform, but that may contain more than a dollop of wishful thinking: Fueled
by the kerosene of talk radio and cable news, this is not exactly a nuanced
debate.

But if Republicans are about to hand Democrats a gift on immigration, Democrats
have been treating the issue more like a hot potato. Spooked that immigration
may become a GOP base-energizing issue, much like gay marriage in 2004, they are
torn between trying to protect themselves against charges that they are soft on
the issue and trying to seize the opportunity to attract Hispanic voters.

An illustration of that ambivalence came with the House vote in December in
which 36 Democrats, including all the vulnerable incumbents, voted for the House
bill. Much as with Democrats' self-imposed silence on the Bush tax cuts during
the 2002 campaign, it's a bit hard to capitalize on an anti-immigration vote
backed by some of your own troops.

And indeed, Democrats aren't doing much in the way of capitalizing. A New
American Media poll of legal immigrants, released yesterday, found that while
only 22 percent said the Republican Party was doing a good job on immigration,
the approval rating for the Democrats wasn't all that impressive either: 38
percent. "There's anger out there" among immigrants, says Democratic pollster
Sergio Bendixen, who conducted the survey. "But there's also a feeling that the
Democrats are not much better."

marcusr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              223 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Students Unite To Protest Immigration Proposals;
Hundreds Miss School For Freedom High Rally

BYLINE: Ian Shapira, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T01

LENGTH: 597 words


Hundreds of mostly Hispanic students skipped classes Monday and Tuesday at
several schools to protest proposed federal laws that threaten the livelihoods
and status of the nation's nearly 11 million illegal immigrants.

The hub of local demonstrations was at Freedom High School in Woodbridge, where
about 350 students from many Prince William County schools gathered in the front
parking lot both days to chant and carry signs as drivers passed by.

The routine was the same both days. Students gathered at Freedom for a few hours
and then marched en masse down Jefferson Davis Highway to Todos Supermarket,
causing drivers to stare and traffic to slow. Police officers were summoned to
provide an escort.

No one was arrested and no special disciplinary punishments were given.
Depending on their school behavior records, students were given a warning,
detention or suspension, administrators said.

Despite some students yelling at drivers and walking down the side of a major
four-lane highway, Freedom's demonstration was peaceful and well-organized.
Students cleaned up after themselves, appointed a leader who directed with a
megaphone and conducted themselves in a collegial manner with school officials
and police, school and police officials said.

As the second day of protests began, the student leaders met with Freedom
Principal Dorothy McCabe, Associate Superintendent Rae Darlington and two local
Hispanic leaders  --  businessman Carlos A. Castro and Julien Bermudez, the
county's director of housing and community development.

The meeting was like two opposing sides  --  union and management, players and
owners  --  coming together to broker negotiations. The students wanted to
ensure that they could exercise their rights on school grounds; the
administrators wanted to make sure the demonstrations were conducted peacefully.
They also urged the students not to have any more unexcused absences.

"They believe so strongly in what they're doing," Freedom student  Anthony
Lemus, 16, told McCabe, explaining that students have missed only two days of
classes.

"If you're going to miss a day, do it as an excused absence," McCabe advised.
"Just have your parent call in."

Bermudez explained how the Senate bill  --  which would eventually grant
citizenship to illegal immigrants if they have jobs, pay fines and learn English
--  seemed more reasonable than the House bill, which would make it a felony to
live in the United States illegally. But more than anything, the Hispanic
leaders seemed genuinely interested in what compelled the students to protest.

"What got you into this?" Castro asked the students.

"People aren't aware of the situation," said Juan Garcia, 17, the student
council association president.

Lemus, one of the protest organizers, was more blunt: "With this, cops can ask
for my papers anytime they want. That is straight disrespect."

After the meeting ended, the student leaders spilled outside to join their
comrades. Students pumped their fists, waved the flags of their families' native
lands  --  El Salvador's blue and white flag was by far the most numerous  --
and yelled for drivers to honk.

After a few hours, the students were getting hungry and thirsty, so they headed
down Route 1 to Todos Supermarket, which Castro owns. There, the students
listened to some reggaeton and speeches while guzzling orange soda.

"I think that as youths, we accomplished a lot," said Diana Constanza, 17, a
junior at Freedom. "We proved to all the school officials that we can accomplish
something that no one thought we could do."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              224 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Guard the Borders -- And Face Facts, Too

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: Editorial; A23

LENGTH: 834 words


America, the only developed nation that shares a long  --  2,000-mile  --
border with a Third World nation, could seal that border. East Germany showed
how: walls, barbed wire, machine gun-toting border guards in towers, mine
fields, large, irritable dogs. And we have modern technologies that East Germany
never had: sophisticated sensors, unmanned surveillance drones, etc.

It is a melancholy fact that many of these may have to be employed along the
U.S.-Mexican border. The alternatives are dangerous and disagreeable conditions
for Americans residing near the border, and vigilantism. It is, however,
important that Americans feel melancholy about taking such measures to frustrate
immigration that usually is an entrepreneurial act: taking risks to get to
America to do work most Americans spurn. As the debate about immigration policy
boils, augmented border control must not be the entire agenda, lest other thorny
problems be ignored, and lest America turn a scowling face to the south and, to
some extent, to many immigrants already here.

But control belongs at the top of the agenda, for four reasons. First, control
of borders is an essential attribute of sovereignty. Second, conditions along
the border mock the rule of law. Third, large rallies by immigrants, many of
them here illegally, protesting more stringent control of immigration reveal
that many immigrants have, alas, assimilated: They have acquired the entitlement
mentality created  by America's welfare state, asserting an entitlement to
exemption from the laws of the society they invited themselves into. Fourth,
giving Americans a sense that borders are controlled is a prerequisite for calm
consideration of what policy that control should serve.

Of the nation's  illegal immigrants  --  estimated to be at least 11 million, a
cohort larger than the combined populations of 12 states  --  60 percent have
been here at least five years. Most have roots in their communities. Their
children born here are U.S. citizens. We are not going to take the draconian
police measures necessary to deport 11 million people. They would fill 200,000
buses in a caravan stretching bumper-to-bumper from San Diego to Alaska  --
where, by the way, 26,000 Latinos live. And there are no plausible incentives to
get the 11 million to board the buses.

Facts, a conservative (John Adams) said, are stubborn things, and regarding
immigration, true conservatives take their bearings from facts such as those in
the preceding paragraph. Conservatives should want, as the president proposes, a
guest worker program to supply what the U.S. economy demands  --  immigrant
labor for entry-level jobs. Conservatives should favor a policy of encouraging
unlimited immigration by educated people with math, engineering, technology or
science skills that America's education system is not sufficiently supplying.

And conservatives should favor reducing illegality by putting illegal immigrants
on a path out of society's crevices and into citizenship by paying fines and
back taxes and learning English. Faux conservatives absurdly call this price tag
on legal status "amnesty." Actually, it would prevent the emergence of a sullen,
simmering subculture of the permanently marginalized, akin to the Arab ghettos
in France. The House-passed bill, making it a felony to be in the country
illegally, would make 11 million people permanently ineligible for legal status.
To what end?

Within a decade the New York and Washington metropolitan regions will join the
Miami, Houston, Los Angeles and San Francisco regions in having majorities made
up of minorities, partly because immigrants have higher birthrates than whites.
Since 2000, births, not immigration, have been the largest source of growth of
America's Latino population.

Urban immigrant communities, with their support networks, are magnets for
immigrants. Good. Investor's Business Daily reports a new study demonstrating
that "over the past 30 years rising immigration led to higher wages for
U.S.-born workers. Cities that served as migrant magnets did better than others.
Why? Hiring one worker creates wealth with which to hire more workers."

The president, who has not hoarded his political capital, spent some trying to
get the nation to face facts about the bleak future of an unreformed Social
Security system. Concerning which: In 1940 there were 42 workers for every
retiree; today there are 3.1. By 2030, when all 77 million baby boomers will
have left the work force, there will be only 2.2. And that projection assumes
net annual immigration, legal and illegal, of 900,000, more than double the
400,000 foreigners who, under the terms of proposed Senate legislation, could
come here to work each year.

Today the president is spending more of his depleted political capital by
standing to the left of much of his political base, which favors merely
preventative and punitive measures regarding immigration. He is right to take
his stand there.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              225 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Senate GOP Fears Frist's Ambitions Split Party;
Conflicts Seen With 2008 Aspirations

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 847 words


By pushing his way to the front of the volatile debate over immigration, Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist has reignited complaints that his presidential
ambitions conflict with his leadership duties at times and put him at odds with
his GOP caucus.

Frist (R-Tenn.) pointedly told the Judiciary Committee on March 16 that unless
it produced a comprehensive bill by Monday, he would send his own proposal to
the Senate floor. The committee worked overtime to comply, but Frist still
arranged for his bill  --  which places more emphasis on border security  --  to
draw several hours of debate before yielding to the committee measure as the
vehicle for amendments and votes, which will start today.

Frist's tactics rankled some GOP colleagues who wanted more time to talk through
the divisive questions of illegal immigrants, border fences, guest-worker
options and other matters.

"We should have had a much more ambitious process of trying to build consensus
and bringing people and different views together before we engaged in debate on
the Senate floor," Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) said in an interview. "As
majority leader you can't be single-minded. You've got to deal with a confluence
of challenges and priorities, on behalf of the president, on behalf of the
overall party and on behalf of the institution."

Frist's supporters say he balances his dual roles fairly and does not  put his
presidential ambitions ahead of his 55-member caucus's best interests. But some
close observers in the Senate and elsewhere see a pattern in which he repeatedly
veers right on contentious issues, which could boost his chances in a GOP
presidential primary likely to include more centrist Republicans such as Sen.
John McCain (Ariz.) and Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney.

The immigration issue "is one in which his mark is designed to appeal to the
party base," said congressional scholar Ross Baker of Rutgers University. "His
caucus is elsewhere. There are a number of Republicans who favor some kind of
guest-worker program," which Frist's bill lacks.

Frist did not unduly rush the Judiciary Committee, said his spokesman Bob
Stevenson, and the senator's emphasis on tightening borders is in line with many
colleagues' wishes. Frist wants to "initiate the debate from a platform of
consensus . . .  and move from there," Stevenson said.

Others say immigration is far from the only area in which Frist, a heart-lung
surgeon, has either stumbled or angered colleagues in his three years as
majority leader. A year ago he told the Senate that brain-damaged Floridian
Terri Schiavo was not in a "persistent vegetative state," a declaration that
pleased right-to-life activists but did not comport with autopsy results. When a
Dubai company's proposed control of U.S. port operations prompted controversy,
Frist initially called for a 45-day study but soon broke with President Bush's
support for the deal.

"So much of what he has done, including Schiavo, the ports deal and now this
[immigration], are clearly aimed at the Republican primary," Baker said.

Frist's GOP colleagues agree that his presidential hopes make his leadership job
much more complicated, but some say he does not always act in his own best
interest.

"I think that he's learning  --  as he goes about trying to pursue a White House
bid and continue to manage the day-to-day operations of the Senate  --  that
it's a great challenge,"  Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) said. "As the leader of the
agenda, he probably has to take positions and advocate things that are very much
contrary to what he would do if he were just purely a candidate for the White
House. . . . It's a very delicate and difficult tightrope to walk."

Asked if the Schiavo episode  --  in which Frist announced his conclusions after
viewing a home video of the severely handicapped woman  --  was an example of a
high-wire slip, Thune said: "Well, sure. You look at that, and there's a full
range of issues where trying to get 51 votes in the Senate  --  or in some cases
60 votes in the Senate  --  probably puts you at some odds with the national
constituency of some sort. And I think this immigration reform issue is a good
case in point. It is extremely challenging to try to craft a position that would
be helpful in a Republican primary and then to deal with getting 51 votes for
that position here."

Another Republican senator, who would speak only on background to avoid a clash
with the leader, was more pointed. "The immigration issue is poorly handled.
He's obviously playing primary politics."

Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), who backs the immigration bill that emerged
from the Judiciary Committee, said he would have preferred that the Senate
launch the immigration debate discussing the committee's bill rather than
Frist's more conservative plan. "I think his legislative fix is wrong," Graham
said, because it does not address guest-worker issues.

But Sen. George Allen (R-Va.), a likely rival for the GOP presidential
nomination, said Frist's maneuvering on immigration "doesn't bother me at all. I
want to see action."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              226 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

REGIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 281 words


IMMIGRATION

Honduran and Nicaraguan immigrants wishing to get a one-year extension of a
special temporary permit allowing them to remain and work in the United States
must register with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service between April 1
and June 1, U.S. authorities announced yesterday.

The controversial benefit, known as temporary protected status, was granted to
illegal immigrants from those countries in 1998 after a hurricane devastated
them. Originally granted for 18 months, it has been extended several times, with
the most recent extension announced by the Bush administration last month.

Only the approximately 75,000 Hondurans and 4,000 Nicaraguans who currently hold
TPS are eligible to register for the extension, which expires July 5, 2007.

The administration has also announced plans to extend a similar permit granted
to about 220,000 immigrants from El Salvador after earthquakes hit that country
in 2001. Authorities have not yet released the registration dates for that
program.

More information can be obtained from the USCIS National Customer Service Center
at 800-375-5283.

--  N.C. Aizenman

NATIONAL ZOO

The National Zoo has designated April as "Panda Month" and is celebrating with
special prizes for visitors.

Tomorrow, the first 500 children who visit the zoo will receive a giant panda
coloring page and Fujifilm crayons. All month, visitors can enter to win a
basket of prizes, including a Fujifilm digital camera and an Animal Planet gift
bag.

Entry forms and more information about panda-related activities will be
available at the information booth near the Panda House and online at
www.fonz.org/pandamonth.htm.

--  Karlyn Barker

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              227 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Meltdown We Can't Even Enjoy

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 821 words


It's frustrating. The three overlapping forces that have sent this country in so
many wrong directions  --  the conservative movement, the neoconservative
movement and the Republican Party  --  are warring among themselves, doing their
best impression of crabs in a barrel, and sensible people can't even enjoy the
spectacle. That's because it's hard to take pleasure in the havoc they've caused
and the disarray they will someday leave behind.

Factions within the conservative movement have been engaged in escalating
skirmishes over what, exactly, the label "conservative" should mean. This week
the fight is over illegal immigration. The nativists and xenophobes want mass
deportation and a Berlin Wall looming over the Rio Grande. The cultural
determinists lose their studied, academic poise the moment they hear
brown-skinned people speaking Spanish or see them waving a Mexican flag. Watch
your blood pressure, people, because Cinco de Mayo is just a few weeks away.

The social conservatives seem to be hopelessly conflicted about immigration.
They have a kind of immune-system reaction against this unchecked inflow of
aliens who look suspiciously like carriers of alien values. But, as some
conservative commentators have noted, the immigrants flooding across the border
are more likely to have traditional, family-and-church values than many
native-born Americans. Does . . . not . . . compute.

Meanwhile, the small-government, tight-money conservatives have finally reached
the point of utter disgust  about another issue  --  the fact that George W.
Bush and a conservative Congress have presided over a massive expansion of
government and an explosion of debt. For this group, having to point to Bill
Clinton as a model of fiscal probity redefines the word "galling."

The neoconservative civil war is simpler to map, because it's all about Iraq.
After a long period of denial, even the most fervent and evangelical of the
neocons are now forced to admit that this whole Iraq thing hasn't quite worked
out the way they expected. Those who advocate staying the course can read the
polls. They see that bringing out their dictionaries, pointing to the definition
of "civil war" and splitting hairs isn't doing much to stanch the flow of public
opinion.

When one of the neocon movement's stalwarts, Francis Fukuyama, declared himself
a turncoat recently in a new book  --  he questions not only the war but the
whole premise of neoconservatism as a real-world philosophy  --  his erstwhile
compatriots reacted with the shrill bitterness of a rejected lover. It's the
kind of intellectual food fight that's almost always fun to watch, except that
it's about Iraq, and there's nothing funny about Iraq.

The conflict within the Republican Party is about two primal urges, fear and
ambition. Suddenly there is the chance  --  not the probability but the
possibility  --  that the Republicans will lose control of the House or the
Senate this fall. At the same time, presidential hopefuls with an eye on 2008
are jockeying for position. That combination of circumstances is turning
problems into crises, and crisis management is not the ideal way to run a
country.

That's what is happening with immigration. Majority Leader Bill Frist has the
Senate in a lather, as if all 12 million illegal immigrants in the country
suddenly arrived last Thursday. I'm sure that has nothing to do with the fact
that he'd like to run for president.

It would all be entertaining if the stakes weren't so high. Iraqis and Americans
are dying; the treasury is bleeding; real people, not statistics, are at the
center of the immigration debate. Iran is intent on joining the nuclear club.
Hallowed American traditions of privacy, fairness and due process are being
flouted, and thus diminished. As the powers-that-be self-destruct, the
powers-that-would-be  --  Democratic leaders and all Americans who've seen
enough of this movie  --  need to put together an alternative program that will
begin to undo some of the damage the conservative-neocon-GOP nexus has wrought.

To this point, I think the Democratic Party has done just what it needed to do,
which was basically to sit back and watch the other side wear itself down. When
one party is in charge of the White House and both sides of Capitol Hill,
there's not much the other party can do anyway. Refusing to draw up articles of
impeachment or sign on to Russ Feingold's censure resolution may reflect cold
political calculation, but it also acknowledges plain reality: Not gonna happen.

Democrats have behaved with remarkable discipline, which shows how much they
believe they  need to win this fall and in 2008. What they haven't yet done is
communicate a compelling vision of where they will take the country when they
are given the reins. Dry position papers, drafted by committee, aren't enough.
Make us see a better future.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              228 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

SATURDAY

BYLINE: John Maynard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C07

LENGTH: 437 words


NBA Basketball. Miami at Cleveland (ESPN at 2); Washington at San Antonio (CSN,
8:30).

Golf. Third round of the BellSouth Classic (Channel 4 at 3).

Preseason Baseball. Washington at Baltimore (CSN, 4:30).

College Basketball. The Final Four: George Mason vs. Florida (Channel 9 at 6)
and UCLA vs. LSU (Channel 9, 8:45).

Hockey. Washington at Ottawa (Channel 50, 7:30).

It's Academic. The playoffs begin! First up: St. Anselm's, DeMatha and Oakton
(Channel 4 at 10 a.m.).

To the Contrary With Bonnie Erbe. The gals discuss women and immigration and
preview the midterm elections (Channel 32 at 10 a.m.; Sunday at 9:30 a.m.,
Channel 26).

This Is America With Dennis Wholey. A roundtable conversation about immigration
in America (Channel 32, 10:30 a.m.; Sunday at 6 p.m.).

Weekend Live With Tony Snow.  Retired Col. Randy Larsen discusses "brain drain"
at Homeland Security (FNC at noon).

The Beltway Boys. Topics are the political brawl over immigration and President
Bush's new chief of staff (FNC at 6).

Fox News Watch analyzes media coverage of the immigration debate (FNC, 6:30).

The McLaughlin Group argues over immigration (Channel 4, 7:30; Sunday, 11:30
a.m.).

CNN Presents: The Last Days of Pope John Paul II. CNN's Delia Gallagher goes
inside the Vatican to share new facts about the final days of the pontiff (CNN
at 7).

The Kids' Choice Awards. Prepare to be slimed as Jack Black hosts the annual
ceremony gauging what young 'uns like in the world of entertainment and sports
(Nickelodeon at 8).

Liza With a 'Z.' A digitally remastered version of Liza Minnelli's 1972 TV
concert special, directed by legendary Broadway director and choreographer Bob
Fosse (Showtime at 8).

Assume the Position With Mr. Wuhl. Robert Wuhl, the former "Arli$$" star who
also seemed to appear in every baseball-themed movie ever produced, returns to
HBO with a comedy special that takes on U.S. history (HBO at 10).

The Henry Rollins Show. The opinionated, tattooed and chiseled D.C. native, who
once fronted the seminal band Black Flag, hosts a talk show featuring celebrity
chats and musical performances; his inaugural guests are Oliver Stone and the
band Sleater-Kinney (IFC at 10).

Samurai 7. Anime series is based on Akira Kurosawa's 1954 classic "Seven
Samurai," with a science-fiction twist (IFC, 10:30).

Dateline. A connection is revealed between a crime victim's story from 20 years
ago and the disappearance of a 25-year-old in 2005 (Channel 4 at 8).

Mad TV. With Michael Rapaport (Channel 5 at 11).

Saturday Night Live (R). Hosted by Scarlett Johansson, with music by Death Cab
for Cutie (Channel 4, 11:30).

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              229 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Students Across the Nation Protest Immigration Bills

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO March 31


Thousands of students protesting tough immigration bills being debated in
Congress marched in Virginia, California, Texas, Nevada and other states Friday.

In Fairfax County, a high school student was stabbed during a protest that drew
about 75 people.

The 16-year-old boy was hospitalized with injuries that police said were not
believed to be life-threatening. Two teenagers were arrested; police said they
did not know whether the suspects had been among the protesters.

The demonstrations coincided with the 79th anniversary of the birth of the late
Cesar Chavez, the co-founder of the United Farm Workers union who became a
champion of poor Hispanic agricultural workers in the 1960s and '70s.

Students waved Mexican flags and signs saying "We are not criminals" as they
demonstrated in San Diego's Chicano Park. A police spokesman said there were
1,500 protesters.

Students distributed leaflets explaining a provision of a bill approved in the
House that calls for a major crackdown on illegal immigration. Its prospects for
becoming law are uncertain.

Sheriff's deputies monitored at least 200 students from high schools in northern
San Diego County who walked to California State University at San Marcos.

About 1,000 students marched in Bakersfield, in California's Central Valley.

Las Vegas police and school officials said at least 3,000 students marched to
the Strip and held demonstrations at downtown government buildings and a park.

In Tucson, about 1,000 middle-school students and 300 high school students
walked out of classes.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              230 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration's Rights and Wrongs

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 767 words


In the March 27 front-page story "Help Wanted as Immigration Faces Overhaul;
Congress Considers New Rules, and Businesses Worry About Finding Workers," a
local company said it was having difficulty finding people to perform
landscaping work for a starting wage of $7.74 an hour, but the president of the
company didn't believe that wages were the issue.

I graduated from high school in 1984 and decided to take a year to find out what
life in the D.C. area would be like for someone with muscles and no skills. For
a while I worked mowing lawns and raking leaves for a company that paid me $7 an
hour. Later I was hired to do general labor on a construction site. That meant
digging, hauling and other physically demanding tasks in all sorts of weather. I
started at $7.50 an hour.

In 1984 the federal minimum wage was $3.35. That means both of those jobs paid
me more than twice the minimum wage. Adjusting for inflation, the equivalent
wages would have been $12.96 and $13.88 in 2005. Adjustments using the Labor
Department's Employment Cost Index would put those wages at more than $15 an
hour today.

It's easy to say the problem is not wages, but that ignores reality.

JIM CARR

Phoenix

*

In his March 29 op-ed column, "New Immigrants Teach an Old Lesson," Harold
Meyerson  overlooked the economic and social effects of illegal immigration (his
accusations of xenophobia not withstanding).

The reason illegal immigration is a massive problem is that it is a huge benefit
to businesses that do not want to pay legally required taxes  --  i.e., Social
Security, Medicare, etc. Who foots the bill when an illegal immigrant wants to
go to school or needs  medical treatment? Americans do.

Illegal immigration has been allowed to continue for too long because our
elected officials have taken the path of least resistance by granting amnesty to
violators. Our government needs to enforce the laws now.

PHILIP LOGAN

Centreville

*

It is ironic that the people whom Robert J. Samuelson criticized as being a
burden on society ["We Don't Need 'Guest Workers,' " op-ed, March 22] were
featured on the front page of The Post the same day under the headline "The
Latino Small-Business Boom."

A professor once said that the law is only the rules  that a society is willing
to enforce. That's true about immigration. It's hard to listen to cries about
illegal immigration when no one seems to be rounding up these immigrants, and no
one seems to prosecute employers who hire them without a valid employment
eligibility verification form.

Mr. Samuelson complained that illegal immigrants are a burden on hospitals,
schools and the like, but he has no idea how many pay taxes or how many, if
given the opportunity, would buy health insurance. He may not know how hard it
is to buy health insurance without the proper papers.

A powerful and loud fringe of the Republican Party has decided that illegal
immigrants are ruining this country. We need the Senate to reject this view. We
need to change the law to let these people, like the immigrant groups in our
history, prove themselves in our society. They don't need  handouts. They want
to earn their place in this country and live the American dream.

ANTHONY E. RAMOS

Washington

The writer lobbies on Hispanic issues.

*

The Senate Judiciary Committee's proposal on immigration is tantamount to
amnesty, and the House bill is draconian ["Senators Back Guest Workers; Panel's
Measure Sides With Bush," front page, March 28].  A viable immigration policy
might be crafted out of the Senate and House plans, but several points need
recognition:

*  The obfuscating term "undocumented" should be dropped. For whatever cause,
these so-called undocumented people have violated U.S. immigration laws. They
are illegal.

*  All people must be respected and not exploited, regardless of immigration
status.

*  There are few jobs that Americans would not take if salaries were raised.

*  We have a labor shortage.

*  It would be impossible and a humanitarian outrage if all the illegal
immigrants were forcibly repatriated to their native countries. The legal status
of illegal immigrants must be normalized. The process must provide normalization
and adequate means of enforcement.

*  Illegal immigration has hurt low-wage Americans and strained medical, welfare
and education resources.

*  The United States must secure its borders even if that requires building a
fence or militarizing the borders.

Both houses of Congress must work together or the problem of illegal immigration
will grow even larger.

NASON GOLDSTEIN

Royal Palm Beach, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              231 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Georgia Attacks Put Immigrants in Fear;
Hispanic Farmhands Shaken by Violence That Killed 6, But Most Plan to Stay

BYLINE: Giovanna Dell'Orto, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: TIFTON, Ga.


A friendly mutt on a leash, a small padlock on the front door, and dark towels
over taped-up windows are all that stand between Luis Ortiz and his fear that
burglars will again break into his dilapidated mobile home and beat him within
an inch of his life.

With a toothless mouth, broken jaw and mangled hands, the 43-year-old Mexican
immigrant is haunted by the September night when he was beaten with a bat in his
sleep. It was one of at least four brutal robberies of immigrant homes that
night in the Tifton area that left six dead, including Ortiz's cousin, and six
injured.

"I stay up nights wondering if it'll happen again and I've nothing to defend
me," Ortiz said resignedly in Spanish, sitting on a patched-up sofa in the same
stuffy trailer where he and his cousin were attacked, with crime-scene tape
still rolled up in the dirt outside. "Police told me to buy a gun, but I don't
have an ID."

That fear is shared by many of the thousands of Hispanic immigrants, especially
the undocumented ones, who have flocked to south Georgia to pick cotton,
peaches, peanuts and cotton, and have been targeted by robbers because they tend
to carry lots of cash and hesitate to call police for fear of deportation.

But Ortiz also shares a determination to stick it out in the United States,
where he moved seven years ago from Zacatecas, Mexico, a city with one of  that
country's highest migration rates.

"I've got to help my family; they can't help me. How can I go back without
teeth?" said Ortiz, who could not work in the fields for five months because of
his injured hands.

Although criminals often prey on immigrants, the brutality of last September's
attacks  --  with the victims beaten, shot and, in at least one case, raped  --
shocked this farm town of 15,000 into doing more to integrate the immigrants who
have come here to work, most from Mexico.

"These are people who came with a lot of expectations and who want to integrate
as much as possible," said the Rev. Alfonso Gutierrez, an immigrant from
Colombia who leads the city's lone Catholic church and has spearheaded charity
efforts for the victims' families back in Mexico, the two survivors who have
remained and the area's larger Hispanic community.

"Their attitude is, 'I'll stay as long as I can survive,' " the priest said.

Adding to the local tension is that the four people arrested in the killings are
black, prompting speculation that the attacks were racially motivated. Police
say there is no evidence of that, but the federal Community Relations Service
--  the Department of Justice's "peacemaker" for conflicts involving race, color
and national origin  --  has been working with Tifton leaders.

"People in the news say some blacks killed Hispanics, and now it's a race war,"
said Isabella Brooks, a retired secretary who heads the NAACP in Colquitt
County. "But I'm sure the majority of people in the black community are willing
to go all out to show we're not all bad."

Tereso Rodriguez, who still lives in the rickety but spotless trailer where the
robbers beat him, his wife and three of his children a few nights before the
lethal attacks on Sept. 30, said he wonders if he was the victim of a hate
crime.

"Sometimes I think it was some kind of racism," Rodriguez said. "If it were only
stealing, there'd be no need to hit us so much."

The suspects, two men and two women from neighboring Colquitt County, are
believed to be part of a larger group responsible for similar home invasions,
Tift County District Attorney Paul Bowden said. He said he will wait for the
Georgia Bureau of Investigation's final report on the killings before
determining whether to pursue the death penalty against the suspects, who have
been indicted on murder and other charges.

Bowden said it is often difficult to prosecute crimes against immigrants because
they are afraid to contact police.

To encourage the local immigrants to see police as trustworthy and concerned,
not as indifferent at best and an arm of immigration enforcement at worst,
officers have stepped up patrols in trailer parks, where most of the immigrants
live.

Only a couple of Tifton's 50 officers speak a little Spanish, Tifton Police
Chief Jim Smith said, and most local leaders acknowledge that language is the
biggest barrier toward integrating the immigrant community.

"It's always a division, because we can't communicate," Brooks said. "But
there's nothing wrong with them being here."

With the help of Hispanic leaders, immigrants fluent enough in both English and
Spanish are being identified to serve as police liaisons in their neighborhoods
who can immediately report crimes or any racial tension before it spins out of
control.

Smith also has been recruiting young Hispanics to work as clerks or become
officers,  such as the two U.S.-born Amaya brothers, who will enter the police
academy in May and live with their Salvadoran parents and seven siblings a few
mobile homes down a pothole-filled road from Ortiz's.

"Everybody stayed locked up for two weeks for fear of going outside," said the
younger brother, Balmori Amaya, 20, switching between flawless English and
Spanish. "Lots of people here bust their butts to work to send money home. We
just don't understand why they'd do that to us."

Around him on a recent balmy  evening, the constant rumble of snowbirds leaving
Florida on nearby Interstate 75 mingled with the cackling of roosters. Outside a
trailer across from Ortiz's, a homemade, bilingual sign promised fresh shrimp.

Hispanic and black children played among broken furniture and petted the dog
outside Ortiz's door while vans and pickups unloaded immigrants returning home
from work.

"They're here to stay, and now it's the point where we have to get along," Smith
said. "Young kids are doing it; it's us older people who are the problem."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              232 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Town's-Eye View of Immigration Debate;
In Ga., Influx Fills a Gap in Workforce

BYLINE: Peter Slevin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1412 words

DATELINE: GAINESVILLE, Ga.


Harold Hogsed wonders how his grandchildren learn anything in school, with all
the time their teachers spend instructing Hispanic immigrants on basic English.
A drawling Georgia native, he cannot understand what the Spanish-accented adults
are saying. He sees them as a drain on his tax dollars and he wishes they would
all go home.

"How many people can this country hold?" Hogsed asked. "I don't have the
solution to it, but something's got to be done."

Hogsed is not alone in struggling to wrap his mind around the tide of Latin
American workers who have remade this north-Georgia town. City schools are now
55 percent Hispanic. More children arrive each day with their undocumented
parents, often directly from Mexico. The Yellow Pages include 41 pages in
Spanish. St. Michael Catholic church, which once drew 25 people to a monthly
Spanish Mass, now has 6,000 Hispanic families on its parish registry.

Their numbers show just how rooted the predominantly Mexican immigrants have
become in Gainesville and throughout the South. They have put pressure on public
services while becoming essential players in the local economy. Amid anxiety on
all sides, neighbors, advocates and the new residents are assessing their
presence and their future in a debate that resonates nationally.

Proponents of more generous accommodations for illegal immigrants staged a
one-day economic boycott on March 24 that shuttered businesses and boosted
morale. Business and farming leaders declared that immigrants are keeping them
solvent. At a Mass on Thursday night dedicated to the immigrants, the Rev. Fabio
Sotelo urged 300 parishioners to persevere, pray and write the governor.

Gov. Sonny Perdue (R) is considering a strong anti-immigration bill delivered
last week by the Georgia legislature. Congress is considering significant
federal legislation, with Gainesville's congressman, Nathan Deal (R), among the
firmest supporters of tightened borders and toughened measures. Lawyers for
U.S.-born carpet workers will argue to the Supreme Court this month that a
Georgia manufacturer conspired to drive down wages by importing illegal
laborers.

Gainesville advertises itself as "the poultry capital of the world" and it is
the chicken-processing plants that are driving much of the city's startling
growth. Since 1990, the official population has nearly doubled to 32,000 and the
number of Hispanics has quadrupled to compose nearly half the registered
population  --  and far more when illegal immigrants are considered.

When the shift changes at the factories on Industrial Boulevard, hundreds of
workers in hairnets stream through the doors of Koch Foods and Pilgrim's Pride.
Their origins are reflected in the Spanish banter, the salsa tunes blasting from
car radios, and the young ice cream vendor who calls his cart La Paleteria Lulu.

"Reality speaks and it says that, absent Hispanic workers, we could not process
chicken," said Tom Hensley, chief financial officer for Gainesville's largest
chicken plant, Fieldale Farms. "There aren't enough native American people who
want to work in a chicken plant at any wage. We'd be put out of business."

A dozen years ago, Fieldale employed fewer than 100 Hispanics. Today, Hispanics
total 3,000 in a 4,700-person workforce that transforms live birds by the
thousand into boneless chicken flesh. To win jobs that start at about $10 an
hour, applicants must present at least two identity documents from a government
list of 18.

"If the documents appear to be legitimate, we accept them," Hensley said.

Two workers said they got jobs at Fieldale with fake documents, a practice
considered an open secret. One longtime laborer, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity, said he is counting on Congress  --  "in a free country, a democracy"
--  to design a compromise that legalizes needed and reliable undocumented
residents.

Praised for excellence by President Bush in his 2004 Republican National
Convention speech, Gainesville Elementary greets one new student a day in a
school already 70 percent Hispanic. Nine in 10 students qualify for subsidized
meals. Educators draft letters in two languages and visit homes to urge parents
to support the students.

"We're not going to ask, 'Are you legal?' That's not our concern," said
Principal Priscilla Collins. "We let them know that no one is going to come into
our schools and do raids. That's not how America works."

Raids are much on people's minds. The telephones at St. Michael have been
ringing in the past two weeks as anxious residents tracked rumors prompted by
legislative activity in Atlanta and Washington. Is it true, they asked, that
immigration agents grabbed 300 people at Wal-Mart? Was there a roundup of 500
along Jesse Jewel Parkway? Will agents raid the schools on Friday?

No, no and no, Lucia Martin answered.

Martin was sneaked into the country from Mexico at age 3. She remembers being
tucked under the seat of a truck and told to keep quiet. Her family moved to
Chicago. Twenty years ago, she arrived in Gainesville when her husband found
work on the chicken line. She works at the church.

"There's a supply. There's a demand. There's an opportunity and you take it.
It's human instinct," Martin said. When white residents complain that the new
immigrants should wait their turn, she answers, "Did your ancestors get a visa?"

Martin's worry is that new rules will make it easier for government authorities
to target immigrants unfairly  --  by arresting people on a pretext to
investigate their legal status. Angel Rojas, a Catholic Social Services worker,
raised the same issue in advising an overflow crowd of educators and community
workers to study the potential impact of proposed legislation.

"The main thing we need to understand is this affects everybody," Rojas said. He
noted that one proposal would make it a crime to help an undocumented resident
remain in the United States. A number of Mexicans, he said, have told him they
would rather return home with their worldly goods than risk losing all during
deportation.

That would be cheerful news to legislators who have said they hope to increase
pressure and create a deterrent. It also jibes with the thinking of Joe Merck, a
working-class Gainesville native and advocate for the homeless who describes the
city as "overrun."

"I don't blame 'em coming up here, but half of 'em are illegal. We're taking
care of 'em. They're having all these babies one right after another," Merck,
71, said. "You can go buy your credentials. It's a known fact, but nobody does
anything about it. We need to send 'em back home."

Waiting for a ride, kitchen worker William Morton griped that he cannot obtain
some restaurant jobs because he speaks no Spanish.

"This country's not right," said Morton, 38. "The economy's went down for us and
gone up for them, and we're supporting Mexico."

Merck and Morton can be counted in the potential audience for the immigration
proposals that have suddenly dominated the state and national debate. Deal, a
seven-term congressman who received an A-plus career rating from Americans for
Better Immigration, a group that favors stricter controls, said the United
States is "a nation of law."

"To make sure we have the confidence of the American public behind us, we have
to show we're going to enforce our law first and foremost," Deal said. The
nation's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants "are going to have to go home."

Trinidad Avila, 44, is among those who consider that impossible.

Avila, who darted across the Mexican border as a teenager and later obtained
residency, expects a compromise permitting workers and their families to remain,
but wonders when. His two teenage children hold hands at the dinner table and
pray for friends who are here illegally.

"People don't know what they're going to do," Avila said. "They're just wishing
for the government to do something for them."

Julia Perilla, who studies grass-roots Latino issues at Georgia State
University, describes a "love-hate relationship" between the new immigrants and
many Georgians, especially business people.

"On the one hand, they want us very badly. They are very, very dependent on
Latino labor. On the other hand, there's an incredible amount of xenophobia
that's on the rise in Georgia," Perilla said. "It's extremes. Nobody is in the
middle."

Staff writer Kari Lydersen in Chicago and researcher Don Pohlman in Washington
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              233 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 3, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Making American Money at Home in Mexico;
Ample Jobs in Tourism Lure Workers to Cancun, Far From U.S. Border and Debate on
Immigration

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 1197 words

DATELINE: CANCUN, Mexico


There was a time when Jose Luis Luevano could envision making real money  --
feeding-the-family, paying-the-rent money  --  only in El Norte, or the United
States.

Every nine months or so, he stuffed a backpack at his home in San Luis Potosi, a
sooty industrial town at the northern rim of Mexico's high central plateau, and
went north. He liked the cash he earned when he slipped illegally across the
border. But he hated the journey. And he hated being away from his family more.

Then, six years ago, someone told him about Cancun. Real money could be found
there, too, they said. American money without having to go to the United States.

He never went to El Norte again.

Luevano, 30, a taxi driver who also operates a small catering business here, is
still a migrant, but a migrant of another sort. While President Bush met last
week with his Mexican counterpart, Vicente Fox, in this seaside resort, tens of
thousands of Mexican migrants drawn here by the promise of a steady paycheck
drove the cabs, served the tropical drinks and managed the front desks.

These workers are simultaneously dependent on the United States, for the
tourists who make this place a huge economic engine, and independent from their
richer northern neighbor, because they don't feel the need to leave their
country to make a living.

"Why would I want to go to the U.S.? To die in the desert?" said Alejandro
Corrato Orozco, a security guard with mutton-chop sideburns at the Grand Oasis
Hotel, who spends his days pacifying drunken U.S. college students. "Mexico  --
Cancun  --  is a land of riches. I like these Americans, but I don't want to
live in their country."

Cancun is a place where attitudes toward the United States are far different,
and far milder, than in the anxious border towns that form the dominant image of
Mexico during this time of immigration controversies. News of U.S. immigration
battles  --  followed in screaming-headline detail in other parts of Mexico,
particularly in border towns and the capital, Mexico City  --  barely registers.
Corrato and Luevano, like many of their co-workers, had not noticed that the
U.S. Senate was debating an immigration bill last week, a development that their
countrymen in border towns such as Mexicali and Nogales tracked obsessively.

In many ways, Cancun is the great dream of Mexico, one of the few places in the
country where there are enough decently paying jobs that few contemplate risking
an illegal gambit into the United States. For three decades, this city and the
Mayan Riviera towns to the south have been a magnet for workers throughout
Mexico, now employing more than 200,000 people, many of whom opt to come here
rather than go to the United States.

Few get wealthy working in Cancun's tourism industry, but the jobs usually
provide money for a respectable standard of living in a region where the cost of
housing, food and services is low. And workers come without the danger of
deportation faced by those who illegally enter the United States. Fox declared
recently that the United States would someday "beg" Mexico for workers, and his
ministers point to places such as Cancun to support that argument.

"We don't want to go there, to the U.S.," said Gabriela Rodriguez, the secretary
of tourism for the state of Quintana Roo, which includes Cancun and the Mayan
Riviera towns. "We want the U.S. to come here. Here, it's the reverse."

That reverse perspective was obvious from the moment Bush arrived in Cancun.
Heavily armed police officers lined the roads, mindful that hundreds of
thousands of Latinos rallied last week in Los Angeles, Phoenix and other U.S.
cities. But there were almost no protesters to hold back, just a ragtag cluster
of a couple of dozen bandana-wearing men and a few tourists banging drums in
downtown Cancun.

Juan Lopez Hernandez, an accountant with heavy-lidded eyes, barely looked up as
the protesters clattered past the canopied shoeshine stand outside Cancun city
hall where he was waiting to have his loafers spruced.

"Look, we respect the United States," said Lopez, who left the Mexican state of
Tabasco eight years ago to work in Cancun. "We are good neighbors."

Cancun's gaudy strip of high-rise hotels  --  some in the shape of pyramids and
built on a road named for the Mayan feathered serpent god, Kukulcan  --  is the
invention of promoters of tourism in Mexico's late-1960s government. The city
was a sleepy fishing village until the government audaciously built a major
airport and began cutting deals with hoteliers. In 1974, the first of the big
hotels opened in the city, starting a building frenzy that has led to 27,000
hotel rooms here and another 25,000 in the towns to the south. The area
generates $4.8 billion a year in revenue, accounting for one-third of the
country's second-largest industry.

The region's importance was demonstrated by the hyper-speed government response
to the devastation wrought in October by Hurricane Wilma, which smashed hotel
windows, shredded palapas  --  the area's distinctive thatch-roofed cabanas  --
and punched holes in roofs. A public-private partnership ensured workers they
would receive at least minimum wage while the hotels were repaired, although
they lost substantial income from tips. None was fired, tourism officials said.
Now nearly 18,000 of Cancun's 27,000 hotel rooms are operating, and work crews
swarm at more than a dozen hotels that have yet to reopen.

Luevano makes more money here, much to his surprise, than he did hammering nails
in Houston suburbs. Between his taxi business and his catering shop, he takes
home $1,000 a week, almost double what he made in the United States. At his home
in Puerto Moreles, south of Cancun, the children and grandchildren of American
and Canadian neighbors  --  many of them retirees lured by the low cost of
living  --  are always stopping by because they love his wife's quesadillas. The
grown-ups, he said, seldom talk of guest-worker proposals or border patrol
agents.

"It just doesn't interest us," Luevano said. "If you want to work every day
here, if you want to work seven days a week, and work overtime, you can do it.
There is more than enough work."

There's a saying in Cancun that anyone under 30 here surely came from someplace
else. Even Rodriguez, the secretary of tourism, moved here from another part of
Mexico. Her friends and neighbors don't dream of leaving Mexico. They dream of
staying. Rodriguez has dreams, too: more big hotels, stretching across thousands
of miles of spectacular, undeveloped Mexican coastline. "A curative," she called
it, for Mexico's ills.

As she talked, her eyes glowing, buses let off loads of young Mexican men and
women outside the hotels on Kukulcan Avenue. They all had backpacks. In other
places that would be a sure sign of migrants headed to El Norte. Here, they are
college students from the university in downtown Cancun, transported across a
swamp to the hotel zone, where they train for careers in the hospitality
industry and where foreigners fill their pockets with pesos.

They grew up in Michoacan and Villahermosa and Chiapas. But they have come to
Cancun to stay.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              234 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Robbing Africa of Its Nurses

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 227 words


A little-noticed provision of one of the Senate's immigration bills stands to
produce lasting damage in sub-Saharan Africa. The provision, aimed at addressing
the U.S.  shortage of nurses, would remove the numerical cap on foreign nurses
permitted to immigrate to the United States. This change would accelerate the
flow of nurses out of African countries that desperately need them to combat
AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. As it is, Africa has only about 1 percent of the
world's health  professionals.

With their low wages, dangerous working conditions, and  scarce medicine  and
supplies, African nurses have good reasons for leaving, but their migration will
leave behind more suffering.

The United States could train tens of thousands more nurses each year with
targeted investments in U.S. nursing schools. In the 2003-04 academic year, U.S.
nursing schools turned away more than 100,000 qualified applicants. At the same
time, the United States and other wealthy countries have an obligation to help
bolster wages and improve working conditions in African countries to enable
nurses to  remain. Solutions to the U.S. nursing shortage shouldn't come at the
cost of African lives.

ISABELLA I. MBAI

Head, Nursing Sciences Department

Moi University

Eldoret, Kenya

ERIC A. FRIEDMAN

HIV/AIDS Policy Analyst

Physicians for Human Rights

Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              235 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Debate Wakes A 'Sleeping Latino Giant'

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 984 words


Drawing on fear of restrictive immigration proposals that have awakened hundreds
of thousands of Latinos to political activism, organizers are using popular
Spanish-language radio and networks of community organizations to mobilize
protests in Washington and scores of other cities Monday.

The demonstrations are planned to expand on a groundswell that attracted about
30,000 largely Hispanic protesters in the District last month, about 100,000 in
Chicago and as many as 500,000 in Los Angeles, a surprising display of political
muscle from a population that makes up a substantial portion of the nation's 12
million illegal immigrants.

Jaime Contreras, president of the National Capital Immigrant Coalition,
predicted that Monday's demonstration at the Washington Monument would draw
100,000 people and that nationally the turnout, in more than 60 cities, would
number "in the millions."

"The sleeping Latino giant is finally awake," Contreras said. "This will be the
largest demonstration by immigrants ever held in this country."

The movement has emerged as a loose coalition of immigrants rights groups,
unions and religious and student organizations.

Organizers are eager to draw other immigrant groups, including Asians and
Africans, into Monday's protest. But it is the involvement of so many previously
apolitical elements of the Latino community that might  prove a watershed in the
political and cultural evolution of Hispanics, whose influence has lagged behind
their growth into the nation's largest minority.

The mobilization has drawn into the political mainstream the organizations that
have sustained daily life in the Latino community  --  churches,
Spanish-language radio and social groups.

"I'm not sure anybody totally understands this phenomenon. . . . But we are
happily stunned," said Cecilia Muñoz, vice president for policy at the National
Council of La Raza, a civil rights organization based in Washington. "We're all
very aware that this is history in the making, and the country will be
transformed by it."

The protests will come as Congress begins a two-week recess. The Senate made
progress yesterday in resolving differences that have stalled immigration change
legislation, but a vote to cut off debate today seemed destined to fail,
probably dooming the chance for a final vote before tomorrow's  recess.

With the legislation in play, organizers of Monday's demonstrations can sustain
the urgency of their appeal for support.

According to a count maintained by the New American Opportunity Campaign, a
coalition of national groups based in Washington, there have been more than 30
pro-immigration rallies across the country this year with at least 1,000
participants  --  and often the number was far higher.

The movement has attracted informal immigrant social groups  --  including at
least 10 in the Washington area  --  whose previous focus has been exclusively
on raising money for charitable projects back in Central America.

Thousands of Hispanic youths, coordinating their actions by text-messaging on
cellphones, have staged walkouts at high schools across the country, including
several in the Virginia and Maryland suburbs.

Many Latinos say they were first spurred to action by a House bill passed in
December that would make it a felony to be in the country illegally or to
provide assistance to illegal immigrants.

"We've always been separate and marginalized," said Carlos Rivas, 46, a burly
construction worker born in El Salvador who lives in Fairfax City. "But I think
the racism in this country has grown so much it's time to say, 'Enough!' . . .
Our community needs us to show that we're here, and we're not criminals."

Rivas said Monday's demonstration is his first foray into political activism.

Several years ago he joined a group of Salvadorans who host parties to collect
contributions to build homes for the poor or people with disabilities  in El
Salvador. Now that Rivas and other members of the association have decided to
become involved in U.S. politics, the network of contacts they developed through
their years of community work is coming in handy.

Early Sunday morning, they gathered in a friend's back yard in Chantilly to
prepare hundreds of chicken tamales to sell in their neighborhoods. It was a
typical fundraiser for the group  --  except that this time they also planned to
hand out a flier advertising the march with each tamale.

While the women gathered around vats of boiling cornmeal, the association's
president, Francisco Castro, sat down at a picnic table and began calling
acquaintances on his cellphone from a list written on a yellow pad.

"Hey, brother, how's it going?" Castro asked, raising his voice over the cumbia
music on the stereo. "Yeah, we have the tamales for you. But I'm also calling
because I want you to commit to convincing 10 people to come to this march. And
do you think you could also lend us one of your vans so we can give people
rides?"

There was no need to explain the march.

Over the past two months, Spanish-language radio hosts have emerged as a driving
force behind the immigration rallies. Once relatively rare, the number of
Spanish-language media outlets across the nation has grown greatly over the past
decade.

Pedro Biaggi, host of the morning show on Washington's 99.1 El Zol, is virtually
unknown among non-Latinos. But the boyish, irrepressible Puerto Rican has
achieved celebrity status among the area's large Central American immigrant
audience after only a few months on the Spanish-language FM station.

"I have five hours to do jokes and stupid skits  --  and normally that's my job,
to help people forget their troubles," Biaggi said. "But this is a case without
precedent. Never have we Latinos felt as insecure and persecuted as we do now.
I'm Puerto Rican. But I'm brown, too. I am my audience, and I feel totally
committed to helping them."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              236 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration and Wages;
Low pay does not justify a high wall.

SECTION: Editorial; A28

LENGTH: 526 words


THE COSTS of draconian immigration policies are obvious. Building a wall along a
third of the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexican border, as proposed in the recently passed
House bill, would swallow more than $2 billion, and it would not remove the need
for squadrons of border guards to prevent people from coming across via tunnels
and ladders. Forcing employers to get tougher in checking workers' documents,
and clamping down on those who fail to do so, would impose a regulatory burden
on businesses without necessarily doing much to stem the tide of illegal
workers. It might be worth persevering with these policies if the benefits of
lower immigration were truly significant. But at least one commonly cited
benefit  --  better wage prospects for low-skilled Americans  --  is not as
powerful as is often claimed.

It's true that immigration presents a greater challenge to low-skilled workers
than in the past. The 1970 Census found that 63 percent of immigrants had been
born in Canada or Europe and were generally well educated. The 2000 Census, by
contrast, found that 48 percent of immigrants had been born in Mexico, Central
America or the Caribbean, and that more than a third had less than a high school
education. By 2000 immigrants made up over half of the workforce with less than
eight years of schooling.

It sounds obvious that this influx must be depressing wages at the bottom:
Double the supply of a certain type of labor and you push its price down. But
attempts to measure this effect suggest that it's either modest or nonexistent.
The most credible pessimist is George Borjas of Harvard University, who has
calculated that wages for native-born high school dropouts are 7.4 percent lower
than they would have been without immigration. But David Card of the University
of California at Berkeley has compared wage patterns across cities and concluded
that high school dropouts in cities with lots of immigration are no worse off.
In low-immigration cities, it seems, employers don't necessarily respond to a
paucity of low-skilled workers by bidding up wages  to attract more of them.
Instead, they may respond by investing in machinery that allows three
low-skilled workers to do what six might do in a high-immigration city.
Construction workers get extra trucks and power tools; gardeners get electric
trimmers instead of manual shears.

Even a small impact on low-wage workers is alarming, given the rise of
inequality over the past 25 years. But the question is whether to address that
inequality by trying to stop immigration or to go at it via progressive
taxation, larger public investments designed to prevent poor kids from dropping
out of high school, or some other policy tool. Given the expense and doubtful
effectiveness of border walls and employer crackdowns, progressive tax and
social policies seem preferable. After all, to the extent that immigrants drive
down wages at the bottom, they are driving up the inflation-adjusted wages of
other Americans who get cheaper goods and services. Taxing the "immigration
windfall" that flows to better-off Americans and passing it on to the less
fortunate may be the best way to go.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              237 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants' Jobless Rate Falls Below U.S. Natives'

BYLINE: Neil Irwin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 772 words


The jobless rate among immigrants fell below that of U.S.-born workers last year
for the first time in at least a decade, according to new government data,
during a hiring boom by construction, hospitality, and other companies that rely
heavily on immigrant labor.

Unemployment among immigrants was 4.6 percent in 2005, down from 5.5 percent in
2004. The jobless rate among native-born Americans was 5.2 percent, down from
5.5 percent a year before.

Joblessness among immigrants has been as high or higher than that of native-born
Americans in every previous year the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor
Statistics has compiled such data, which it started doing in 1996. The survey
includes immigrants who arrived in the United States legally and illegally and
does not distinguish between the two.

The new figures come as Senate leaders have reached agreement on legislation
that would allow many illegal immigrants to pursue legal status and as an
intense debate over immigration roils the political world.

"There aren't a lot of immigrants working in manufacturing, which has been hard
hit; they don't work as much in professional services, which is still sluggish,"
said Charles W. McMillion, chief economist of District-based research firm MBG
Information Services. "They do work in health care, which is booming. They work
in bars and restaurants, which have been booming, and in construction, which
continues to be strong."

The number of jobs in the construction sector rose 4.3 percent in 2005, compared
with 1.5 percent overall job growth. In 2004, 15.8 percent of foreign-born men
worked in construction and related industries, compared with 10.2 percent of
native-born men.

Put all those numbers together, and it amounts to jobs being created most
rapidly in sectors where immigrants have the strongest footholds. When companies
that already employ significant numbers of people born outside the United States
are expanding, they tend to recruit workers through the friends and families of
existing workers, a phenomenon economists call the network effect.

To some economists, the Labor Department data suggest that immigrants, more so
than in the past, are pursuing jobs more aggressively than their native-born
counterparts.

"The pressure on immigrants to work, especially immigrant men, is very strong,"
said Harry Holzer, a public policy professor at Georgetown University and senior
fellow at the Urban Institute. "They have to bring home the bacon and just don't
have the luxury of doing otherwise."

He notes that some government welfare programs are closed off to immigrants,
especially those who entered the country illegally. And people whose families
have been in the United States for two or more generations may have the savings
and support networks to just keep looking for work rather than accept a job with
unpleasant working conditions.

That divide is particularly visible among Hispanics. Native-born Hispanics had a
7.2 percent unemployment rate in 2005, according to the new data. Foreign-born
Hispanics who are not U.S. citizens had a 5.5 percent unemployment rate.
Foreign-born Hispanics who are naturalized citizens had only a 3.6 percent
jobless rate.

One factor in the low jobless rates among naturalized immigrants is that to be
in the country legally, many needed to be sponsored by an employer. "This is a
group composed almost exclusively of people who came here through a labor
certification," said Rakesh Kochhar, associate director for research at the Pew
Hispanic Center.

He notes another possible reason for lower joblessness among immigrants: If they
have trouble finding a job, they may be inclined to return to their home country
temporarily, whereas native-born workers have no comparable option.

The trend of lower joblessness among immigrants held true in each local
jurisdiction, though state numbers are based on small samples subject to
significant statistical error. In the District, 3.9 percent of immigrants were
jobless, compared with 6.7 percent of native-born workers. In Maryland, 3.4
percent of workers were jobless, compared with 4.3 percent of native-born
workers. And in Virginia, 2 percent of immigrants were unemployed, compared with
3.7 percent of native-born workers.

The data are based on the same survey of about 60,000 households that provides
the raw material for the unemployment rate and other labor force indicators
released each month. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has not yet issued its
formal report publishing the survey results, but it made preliminary data
available on request. CNN/Money first reported on the data yesterday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              238 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

In Phoenix, a Red-Flag Issue

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 784 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


This confident, laid-back city is on the verge of a nervous breakdown.
Immigration reform is more than a political issue here  --  it's an acute
psychosis.

People were shocked two weeks ago when a mostly Latino crowd, now estimated at
more than 25,000, blocked traffic in a posh part of town to protest the
draconian, purely punitive immigration measures passed by the House of
Representatives. Those 25,000 protesters arguably had more impact than the
500,000 who marched in Los Angeles, because Phoenix feels the impact of illegal
immigration from Mexico like no other major city.

"We're the tip of the arrowhead," said Alfredo Gutierrez, a former state
legislator who now hosts a Spanish-language radio talk show and helped lead the
demonstration. Gutierrez and others predict that a second march planned for
Monday will draw up to 100,000 people. This time organizers are asking
protesters not to wave Mexican flags, because that gesture drives the
anti-immigration crowd so berserk. Numbers alone will suffice to make the point.

Here, it's all about the numbers. The city's population of 1.5 million is
believed to include  as many as 250,000 undocumented migrants, the vast majority
of them from Mexico. Every morning, scores of newly arrived pilgrims line up at
the Mexican Consulate on Camelback Road to obtain a Matricula Consular  --  an
identification card that the consulate issues whether the person crossed the
border legally or not. Bank of America regularly sets up a table in a corner of
the consulate's waiting room to enroll new account holders on the spot and
welcome them to the American dream.

Rusty Childress, who owns a Buick-Kia car dealership across the street from the
consulate, sees that long line every day, and it drives him to distraction.
Childress has emerged as one of the leaders of the anti-immigrant movement,
which includes the self-appointed Minutemen who patrol the border and even a
group called Mothers Against Illegal Aliens. "Mexico is trying to reconquer this
country without firing a shot," Childress says, and he is speaking without
irony.

"We're just pressing the issue to enforce the laws that are already on the
books," Childress says. People aren't supposed to cross the border without
proper documents. Employers aren't supposed to hire them. The government is
supposed to deport them, not provide them services. It's that simple.

But of course it isn't simple at all.

Mexican immigration, legal or not, didn't start yesterday. Gutierrez, 60, is the
son of Mexican immigrants; he grew up in a small Arizona town that practiced a
"perhaps more benign" form of the apartheid that African Americans had to suffer
in the South. Mexicans were allowed to use the municipal swimming pool only on
Sundays, after which the pool was drained and refilled every Monday, he says.
Whites went to one school, while Mexicans, Apaches and the one African American
in town went to another.

The idea back then was forced assimilation. "The teacher would put a piece of
tape on your mouth if you spoke Spanish instead of English," he recalls. "It was
a point of honor among all the boys that by lunchtime we would all have our
mouths taped up."

Within his own extended family, Gutierrez says, he counts immigrants who are
American citizens, others who are permanent residents with green cards and still
others who are here illegally. That is why there are no simple solutions: If you
draw a sharp line between those who have proper documents and those who don't,
you break up families.

Wednesday morning, leading English-language and Spanish-language radio stations
joined to simulcast a two-hour call-in show that amounted to municipal group
therapy. One woman who called explained that she is a legal immigrant and her
U.S.-born children are citizens but that her husband has been here illegally for
10 years. To apply for legal status he would have to go back to Mexico, and it
would be years before he could return  --  if he ever made it back. He is the
breadwinner, the woman said. Who would support the family?

"I think the flash point was the fear on the part of the immigrant community
that they now would be criminalized and rounded up in buses and split from their
families," Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon told me. "People at all points along the
spectrum of this debate are frustrated. People want action, and we as a nation
have ignored this for too long. . . . I think the protests are going to grow."

Gordon has tried from the beginning to find a middle ground, and for his trouble
he has been slammed by all sides. It's a nuanced issue, he notes, and at the
moment, "nuances aren't allowed."

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              239 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Putting the Risk in Bush's Lap

BYLINE: Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 973 words


The bipartisan breakthrough on immigration in the Senate underscored the urgency
among leading Republicans to undo the political damage they feel was inflicted
by a punitive measure passed earlier by the House. But the pending deal puts
pressure on President Bush to guide his fractured party to a final compromise
that can win approval of both chambers of Congress.

For the past six years, Bush has sought to expand the GOP coalition by appealing
to the fast-growing Hispanic community. That project has produced enough success
to convince many Democrats that unless those gains are checked or reversed,
Republicans could enjoy a long period of political dominance.

But Republican divisions over immigration put the Bush political project at
risk. The president finds himself caught in a battle pitting what has been his
most important constituency  --  conservative Republicans angry over the flood
of illegal immigrants  --  against what he and advisers such as White House
Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove regard as an emerging GOP constituency  --
Latinos.

Many Republican strategists fear that the wrong outcome on immigration, one that
deals with border security without dealing with the status of the roughly 12
million immigrants who are in the United States illegally, could set the party
back a decade or more in its efforts to attract Latino votes.

GOP officials see the House bill as embodying exactly the wrong outcome and
point to California as the example they hope to avoid. Twelve years ago,
then-Gov. Pete Wilson (R) pushed an anti-immigration ballot measure that sought
to deny state assistance to undocumented immigrants. The initiative passed and
helped Wilson win reelection, but it triggered a surge of new Democratic Latino
voters in subsequent elections that have left Republicans deep in the minority
in the state.

Recent demonstrations against the House bill have only added to GOP concerns
about the direction of the immigration debate, and it was against that backdrop
that the Senate negotiations have taken place.

Democratic and Republican proponents of a comprehensive plan in the Senate that
would allow some illegal immigrants to move toward legal status have given
ground in a display of bipartisan legislating that has become rare. Sens. John
McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), co-sponsors of the bill that
came out of the Judiciary Committee last week, yielded to evidence that they
could not get enough votes to shut off debate on their bill.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), who introduced a tough border
enforcement bill, has moved to embrace a comprehensive bill. Even Bush, who long
has advocated a comprehensive measure, has been forced to move as the
negotiations over a new compromise authored by Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and
Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) that provides a path to legal status for at least half of
the 12 million illegal immigrants have neared completion.

The question facing Bush now is what to do if the Senate compromise wins
approval. Will he insist, as some congressional Republicans do, on finding a
solution that can win a majority of Republicans in the House and the Senate, or
is he prepared to broker a coalition that includes some Republicans and a
majority of Democrats?

House leaders have warned there will be tough bargaining ahead to reconcile the
House and Senate bills. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) has sent signals of
being willing to look for a compromise, but spokesman Ron Bonjean said
yesterday: "We have to wait and see what a conference committee would produce.
But we would want a majority of House Republicans to support it."

Republican strategists said yesterday that party leaders are debating whether to
delay final debate until after the November elections. That would avoid having
to choose between angering conservatives who want tougher measures such as a
fence along the Mexican border and deportation of illegal immigrants, or
Hispanics  --  legal and illegal  --  who want action to bring undocumented
workers out of the shadows.

"Postponing gives you some room," said one GOP strategist who asked not to be
identified to explain the party's internal deliberations. "But at the end of the
day, you have to do something. I'd rather see them vote on November 10th than on
November 1st."

The confluence of the breakthrough in the Senate, the announced resignation of
former House majority leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.) and the imminent arrival of
White House Chief of Staff-designate Joshua B. Bolten also presents Bush with an
opportunity to signal a fresh start in his governing and legislative strategies
that in the past have generally favored partisan confrontation with Democrats
rather than cooperation.

Now the question is whether Bush will seek greater bipartisanship. "It's more
than a test, it's conceivably a turning point," said Ross K. Baker, a political
scientist at Rutgers University, who added: "In the president's beleaguered
circumstances, I think that bipartisanship may be the lifesaver."

Others, such as Thomas E. Mann of the Brookings Institution, said bipartisanship
may  work only on an issue such as immigration, where Bush's ambitions to win
more Latino support for his party inevitably led to a split within his party. On
most other Bush initiatives, Mann said, Republicans and Democrats will remain
divided.

"Democrats are unlikely to be pulled in on other issues," he said. "I think
Democrats sense they are on the verge of benefiting from the first tidal-wave
election since 1994 and the last thing they're interested in doing is being
co-opted."

For those reasons, whatever strategy Bush pursues on immigration may prove the
exception to the rule. In any case, the choices he faces are difficult and
politically consequential, both for his presidency and for his party.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              240 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 7, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Bilingual Education's Pioneer State

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 218 words


In the March 31 front-page article "Tuning In to Anger on Immigration," Shailagh
Murray and T.R. Reid wrote:

"The first time Rep. Tom Tancredo got really angry about immigration, the year
was 1975 . . . The state had recently passed the nation's first bilingual
education law, and Hispanic kids were taken from his class to study in Spanish."

This is incorrect on two points:

Colorado did not pass the first state bilingual education law; Massachusetts
did. I helped draft  that law, enacted by the Massachusetts legislature in 1971.
Bilingual education in Colorado was the result of an administrative directive.

Mr. Tancredo (R-Colo.) also was wrong if he believed Hispanic students were
taken from his class to be taught in Spanish. The Colorado directive called for
children with limited English ability to be taught subject matter (math,
science, etc.) in their native language and English until they were proficient
in English and could be "mainstreamed."

The bases of Mr. Tancredo's xenophobia are best left to him to unravel. The
accuracy of the historical record is a journalistic responsibility. I hope this
letter helps to correct the  record.

ALEX RODRIGUEZ

Annandale

The writer was chairman of the state Bilingual Advisory Council that oversaw the
implementation of the Massachusetts law.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              241 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The Rallying Before the Rally;
At Work Sites, Immigrants Urged to Mass on the Mall

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 682 words


Miguel Carballo wandered the truck-packed gravel parking lots of construction
sites near Dulles International Airport early yesterday, trolling in the drizzle
for Spanish-speaking workers in hard hats and orange vests.

"Are we going Monday, guys?" he asked in Spanish as he handed out
raindrop-stained fliers promoting a major demonstration in support of immigrant
rights to be held on the Mall on Monday.

Walter Salazar, his sweat shirt hood fending off the rain, nodded.

"I have papers, you understand. But I'm going to support those who don't,"
Salazar, 24, said.

Carballo, an organizer for Laborers Local 11, pumped Salazar's hand and moved
on. He and two other union representatives, Hugo Carballo and Ronal Guzman, were
bouncing from work site to work site yesterday morning in a final push by rally
organizers and supporters to boost turnout for the demonstration, part of a
multi-city effort as Congress considers immigration bills that the marchers
consider too severe for people in the United States illegally.

There was no concern yesterday that the demonstration would be poorly attended.
Based on phone calls about the event and the many dozens of buses chartered to
ferry participants, organizers upped their expectations for attendance from
about 100,000 to as high as 180,000. Some organizers said yesterday that the bus
supply had run dry.

"This is so big; this is bigger than our expectations," said an almost
overwhelmed-sounding Ricardo Juarez, coordinator of the District-based Mexicans
Without Borders, which expects to transport at least 3,500 rally participants in
buses originating from across  Northern Virginia  and from points as far away as
Harrisonburg, Va. "People are calling our offices and saying . . . we have a
landscaping company, we are going to the march and can we have some
transportation?"

Organizers planned to keep spreading the word through the weekend. Juarez said
120 volunteers for Mexicans Without Borders will spend the weekend distributing
fliers and posting signs in stores that cater to Latinos. Others will plug the
rally on radio and television programs through Monday, he said.

Volunteers with CASA of Maryland will hit the phones, urging supporters to join
in, spokeswoman Eliza Leighton said. Pastors, rabbis and priests across the
region plan to exhort congregations to attend. Worshipers at the 34 Arlington
Diocese parishes that offer Spanish Masses will find fliers in their  weekly
bulletins, a diocese spokesman said.

Juarez said Mexicans Without Borders had ordered 63 buses. Fifty-six more will
transport demonstrators from the Maryland suburbs to the Mall or to Metro lines,
CASA of Maryland spokeswoman Kim Propeack said.

Metrorail will operate on a normal weekday schedule Monday, but all lines will
operate with six-car trains.

Metro is advising those attending to buy round-trip farecards. Additional
supervisors will be posted at key downtown stations to help direct passengers,
and officials said they will monitor crowds to determine whether to make
changes, which could include extending rush-hour service. The demonstration will
begin at 4 p.m.

Yesterday morning, Carballo, the union representative, handed a flier to Chip
Praytor, a worker at a mammoth data center under construction in Ashburn.
Praytor could not read it  --  it was in Spanish  --  but said he would be at
the rally all the same.

"We're all immigrants," said Praytor, who is African American.

Charlie Crawford, a general manager with LVI Environmental Services, which has
250 workers doing demolition and abatement at the Pentagon, said he will release
his crew early on Monday. About 90 percent are immigrants, and most have family
and friends who would be affected by changes to immigration laws, he said.

"They're a big part of what we do, and I would be foolish not to respect that,"
Crawford said of his immigrant workers. "I just told them that's the wonderful
thing about being in this country, and they should be able to do it without
ramifications."

Staff writers Lena H. Sun and N.C. Aizenman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              242 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Montgomery Is Criticized Over Credit for Students

BYLINE: Lori Aratani, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 694 words


The Montgomery County schools' decision to grant students community service
credit for attending Monday's immigration rights protest is raising concern
among some parents as well as activists who say officials should focus on
education,  not political advocacy.

Montgomery is the only Washington area school system offering students credit
for taking part in the event, to be held on the Mall  --  a decision
Superintendent Jerry D. Weast said is consistent with how the system  has
operated.

"This is nothing new,'' schools spokesman Brian K. Edwards said about the
decision. "Advocacy is allowed."

But in the superheated atmosphere surrounding the immigration debate, the
decision is drawing sharp criticism from many quarters. Yesterday, school system
offices were flooded with angry phone calls as word of its action circulated
among conservative radio hosts.

In a memo sent to Board of Education members, Weast said that "callers were
abusive to school system staff, using derogatory ethnic comments in expressing
their views." He added, "This is not the first time the national debate on
immigration policy has engendered harsh commentary for the school system and
staff as a target for political purposes."

Edwards said students will receive service learning hours for participating in
the rally as long as they do so under the supervision of a community group that
has been approved by the school system.

Student participation in the event is being organized by CASA of Maryland Inc.,
a Silver Spring-based group that works with the Latino community. It is CASA's
role  --  as organizer  --  that has some questioning whether the school system
is allowing an outside group to push its political agenda on students. "I do
understand that CASA offers some worthy services to immigrants and that's noble,
but it's a stretch to allow students to protest for a particular side of an
issue,'' said parent Melissa Andersen. "I'm taken aback by it. I think it's poor
judgment."

Maryland students are required to put in 60 hours of community service to
graduate from high school. They can undertake a number of activities  --
including working for political campaigns  --  as long as the work is done for a
secular, nonprofit community organization that is tax-exempt and that school
officials have approved.

Edwards said students who participate in the rally, which takes place during the
school system's spring break, will be required to have a sponsoring organization
verify their attendance. Students must complete a written assignment to be
approved by their service learning coordinator. They receive one hour of credit
for every hour spent on the activity, up to a maximum of eight hours in a
24-hour period.

Brad Botwin, whose son is a senior at Richard Montgomery High School in
Rockville, said student community service is important. But he doesn't view the
rally as a community service so much as a political statement.

"It's the wrong thing for the schools to be pushing,'' he said. "This is way
outside the balance. You can send kids to a nursing home, but a rally? This is
not learning."

School board member Stephen N. Abrams (Rockville-Potomac) said students have the
right to express their opinions, and if they choose to do so at a political
rally  --  as long as they abide by the credit rules  --  they should not be
barred from participating.

"The last time I checked, the First Amendment is not a right to question what
the speech is," he said. "I'm sure if students were participating in a tax cap
rally, these same people would not be objecting to that."

School systems in Virginia and the District do not have community service
requirements. Although teenagers there have been  among the most active in
protesting the immigration legislation, no systems planned to grant credit for
participation in Monday's rally. However, in Fairfax County, school officials
said a teacher in a government class, where a service project is often assigned,
may choose to consider the rally as part of that requirement.

Staff writers Nick Anderson, Tara Bahrampour, Maria Glod and V. Dion Haynes
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              243 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Job Issue Muddles Immigration Views;
Blacks' Personal, Policy Stances Collide

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1085 words


Around sunrise on a crystal-blue morning, John Henry Ford and a knot of other
day laborers waited for work on a scruffy Washington street corner. He was a
rare sight among the men waiting anxiously outside a paint store chatting away
in Spanish: a black handyman in a labor pool dominated by undocumented Latino
workers.

"They came over here, in a sense, to replace us," Ford said. But he had no hard
feelings. "Me as a black man around Latinos, I get along with them better than
some in my own culture."

During the noisy debate over illegal immigration arguments about "fairness" and
"compassion" have filled the air. But for low-income, low-skilled people such as
Ford  --  a disproportionate number of them black  --  another idea,
"competition," confronts them nearly every day. Yet despite seeing themselves as
being increasingly displaced by migrants from Mexico and Central America, many
black people like Ford  --  and the leaders who claim to represent them  --
tend to have a favorable view of immigrants.

In a recent poll by the Pew Research Center and the Pew Hispanic Center, nearly
a quarter of black respondents said they had personally lost a job to an
immigrant or knew someone who had. Less than a fifth of white respondents said
that.

But when asked if legal immigration should be cut back, the tables turned. Black
people were less likely to say yes than white people  --  34 percent, compared
with 44 percent. On another question  --  whether immigrants are a burden  --
two-thirds of both groups answered yes.

"We're not anti-immigrant," Lita Herron, a black activist, said at a recent
roundtable discussion on immigration in Los Angeles. "The problem is, it puts us
at odds with people who are trying to do the same thing we're trying to do: make
a living, put a roof over our heads."

The issues of whether immigrants are crowding out black people in the labor
market or driving down the wages among low-skilled workers are hotly debated.
Some economists, including George Borjas of Harvard University, say they are.
"Low-skill . . . illegal immigration has the biggest negative impact on the wage
of low-skill workers," said Borjas, whose research is often cited by those
seeking to restrict immigration. "A disproportionate number of these low-skill
workers happen to be minorities: blacks, Hispanics and earlier immigrant
arrivals."

Some other economists say it is difficult to separate the impact of immigrants
on black employment prospects from other issues such as discrimination and the
large percentage of low-skilled, poorly educated black men who have criminal
records.

Whatever the truth, it is clear that many black people believe strongly that
they are losing jobs, neighborhoods and status to the estimated 11 million or
more undocumented workers who are in the country.

In places where black Americans mix with immigrants  --  Washington, New York,
Los Angeles, Houston and Miami  --  there is a measurable tension. Traditionally
black neighborhoods now belong to Latinos. Black parents have complained about
school PTA meetings being conducted entirely in Spanish. Over the past decade,
black and Latino prison inmates have battled for supremacy in riots that often
turn deadly.

Earl Ofari Hutchinson, a black journalist, said he recently got an earful when
he wrote a series of stories that favored reform. "I got so many e-mails and
calls from people saying, 'How dare you take a position in support of
immigration reform? They're taking our jobs.' That's at the heart of why so many
African Americans are so fearful," he said. "It's not the schools, it's not the
jails. It comes down to the economics and the jobs. I hear over and over,
'They're taking all the jobs.' "

Such feelings are seldom voiced by black politicians and civil rights leaders,
who tend to emphasize working with Latino groups to form a united front for
civil rights. Last week, for example, the NAACP issued a news release calling on
Congress to approve a comprehensive immigration reform package that allows
immigrants to legally work and become citizens, mirroring calls by the National
Council of La Raza and the League of United Latin American Citizens.

Ronald Walters, a University of Maryland professor of political science, said
black civil rights groups might be doing their communities a disservice. Like
President Bush, he said, they are wrong in saying that immigrants are taking
low-skill jobs that Americans do not want. He believes Americans reject low
wages that desperate immigrants workers keep driving down.

In the Washington area, where Central American immigration has thoroughly
changed the demographic landscape, black opinions on immigration are more harsh,
said Scott Keeter, director of survey research for the Pew Research Center.

"Blacks here have more negative impressions than blacks nationally," he said.
"But even at that, they are not overwhelmingly negative toward immigrants by any
means."

The Pew survey of 2,000 was taken between Feb. 8 and March 7. Its sample of
black respondents was much smaller than the 900 African Americans who answered
questions on immigration for a 1999 survey conducted by the Joint Center for
Political and Economic Studies, a black think tank.

Nearly half of black respondents in the Joint Center survey felt illegal
immigration was a major problem, and more than half  --  52 percent  --  said it
had led to the loss of too many lower paying jobs. Fifty-one percent said the
country could not afford more illegal immigrants.

As in the Pew poll, black people were of two minds. Exactly half told the Joint
Center that they thought the increasing diversity made America a better place.
Which is pretty much what A.D. Thomas said as he stood in line for a job with
dozens of Latino workers at 15th and P streets NW.

"Years ago, there weren't any Hispanics here," Thomas said. "But everybody got
to make a living, to do the best they can." He acknowledged that Latino cliques
bypass black handymen. But he took the discrimination in stride, saying they
prefer "working with people they're more comfortable with."

Latinos, he said, "have the reputation, true or false, of being so-called better
workers." Nearby, the third and last black man in the labor pool, who identified
himself only as Damon, for fear that his comments would cost him work, scoffed
at that.

"When customers come here, they'll pick a Spanish guy over a black guy in a
minute," Damon said.

Staff writer Sonya Geis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              244 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration 'Nirvana,' Lost;
Thanks largely to Democrats, the Senate missed an opportunity.

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 488 words


THE SENATE COULD have left town yesterday with a workable, if imperfect,
immigration bill that would have let millions of people living here illegally
come out of the shadows. It had before it a deal that could have attracted 70
votes; it had the backing of the White House and the support of Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), despite his previous, enforcement-only stance.

But after two weeks of slogging toward compromise, the deal blew up over a
procedural standoff on whether to move forward with voting for amendments, as
Republicans were demanding, and if so, for how many. Republicans blamed
Democratic obstructionism aimed at keeping voters' attention focused on the
punitive, Republican-sponsored House bill.

"It's not gone forward because there's a political advantage for Democrats not
to have an immigration bill," said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen
Specter (R-Pa.). Democrats blamed Republican bad faith and said Republicans
refused to impose a reasonable limit on amendments. "The amendments were being
offered by people who didn't want the bill," said Senate Minority Leader Harry
M. Reid (D-Nev.).

Both of those assertions contain elements of truth. But Democrats  --  whether
their motive was partisan advantage or legitimate fear of a bad bill emerging
from conference with the House  --  are the ones who refused, in the end, to
proceed with debate on amendments, which is, after all, how legislation gets
made. The unfortunate result is that momentum toward balanced reform may be
lost. "The Democratic leadership played politics with the prospect of 10 million
immigrants getting on a path to citizenship," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group. "It seems
that Democratic leaders wanted an issue, not a bill."

Too bad, because, as Sen. John McCain  (R-Ariz.) described the measure,
"compared with the status quo, it's nirvana." The compromise was a slightly
tweaked version of a bill produced by the Senate Judiciary Committee and modeled
on the proposal by Mr. McCain and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.). As retooled
by Sens. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), the bill still would
have entitled almost all of the nation's 11 million or more illegal immigrants
to legal status and, ultimately, citizenship. Moreover, it would have reduced
incentives for future illegal immigration by creating a significant supply of
legal guest worker permits  --  a new program that would, as well, give foreign
workers the chance to become permanent residents and ultimately citizens.

The measure wasn't perfect, and certainly there are risks in going to conference
with the House and its enforcement-only approach. But Democrats putting
political self-interest over solving a serious policy problem ought to worry
that their actions will backfire with the very people whose interests they are
purporting to protect.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              245 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

I'm Not What You Might Think

BYLINE: Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez

SECTION: Outlook; B02

LENGTH: 440 words


I'm Alisa, and I'm a recovering journalist.

Used to write for the Boston Globe and L.A. Times. Quit to be a novelist out of
frustration with the media's incompetent reporting about Hispanics and
immigration. In the spirit of helping people overcome the misinformation they
often read, I offer the following cheat sheet:

1  The words "immigrant" and "Hispanic" are not synonymous. The majority of
Hispanics in the United States are not immigrants. According to 2004 census
data, 60 percent of the more than 40 million Hispanics in this country were born
here. Of the 40 percent who were born elsewhere, the majority are legal
immigrants, not illegal.

2  Many immigrants are not Latino. There could be more than 100,000 Nigerians
living in and around Houston. There are thousands of illegal Irish immigrants in
and around Boston. China, India, South Korea and Canada are among the leading
countries sending people here. Many illegal immigrants are college students and
workers who choose to overstay their visas.

3  The United States has two international borders. Not one person who has come
to the United States from Mexico has been publicly identified as a terrorist.
Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh was from Pendleton, N.Y. Maybe we should
build a wall around New York instead of across the southern border.

4  Enough about  the flags, already. They're symbols of cultural pride, not
national allegiance. Think Irish flags on St. Patrick's Day, or Confederate
flags over South Carolina. When newspapers ignorantly frame this debate in
ethnic terms, people ignorantly respond with misplaced ethnic pride.

5  Language is not genetic. The Pew Hispanic Center shows that by the third
generation, 100 percent of Latinos speak English as their first and often only
language. This is the precise assimilation pattern for every other
foreign-language immigrant group in this country. P.S. If you're so opposed to
non-English words, you may speak the names of only 13 American states and almost
no cities in the Southwest.

6  Hispanics like to remind you about America's Hispanic past not because we
want to go back to it, but because we are sick of you assuming that all Latinos
are immigrants. My family has been in New Mexico for seven generations. Bet I
beat Lou Dobbs on that one.

7  Please stop sending e-mails saying things such as, "All you Hispanics should
go home." I, like most Hispanics you see every day, am already home.

alisa@alisavaldesrodriguez.com

Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez is the author of "The Dirty Girls Social Club" and the
upcoming "Make Him Look Good," both published by St. Martin's Press.

</body>

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              246 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration 'Nirvana,' Lost;
Thanks largely to Democrats, the Senate missed an opportunity.

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 488 words


THE SENATE COULD have left town Friday with a workable, if imperfect,
immigration bill that would have let millions of people living here illegally
come out of the shadows. It had before it a deal that could have attracted 70
votes; it had the backing of the White House and the support of Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), despite his previous, enforcement-only stance.

But after two weeks of slogging toward compromise, the deal blew up over a
procedural standoff on whether to move forward with voting for amendments, as
Republicans were demanding, and if so, for how many. Republicans blamed
Democratic obstructionism aimed at keeping voters' attention focused on the
punitive, Republican-sponsored House bill.

"It's not gone forward because there's a political advantage for Democrats not
to have an immigration bill," said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen
Specter (R-Pa.). Democrats blamed Republican bad faith and said Republicans
refused to impose a reasonable limit on amendments. "The amendments were being
offered by people who didn't want the bill," said Senate Minority Leader Harry
M. Reid (D-Nev.).

Both of those assertions contain elements of truth. But Democrats  --  whether
their motive was partisan advantage or legitimate fear of a bad bill emerging
from conference with the House  --  are the ones who refused, in the end, to
proceed with debate on amendments, which is, after all, how legislation gets
made. The unfortunate result is that momentum toward balanced reform may be
lost. "The Democratic leadership played politics with the prospect of 10 million
immigrants getting on a path to citizenship," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group. "It seems
that Democratic leaders wanted an issue, not a bill."

Too bad, because, as Sen. John McCain  (R-Ariz.) described the measure,
"compared with the status quo, it's nirvana." The compromise was a slightly
tweaked version of a bill produced by the Senate Judiciary Committee and modeled
on the proposal by Mr. McCain and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.). As retooled
by Sens. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) and Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), the bill still would
have entitled almost all of the nation's 11 million or more illegal immigrants
to legal status and, ultimately, citizenship. Moreover, it would have reduced
incentives for future illegal immigration by creating a significant supply of
legal guest worker permits  --  a new program that would, as well, give foreign
workers the chance to become permanent residents and ultimately citizens.

The measure wasn't perfect, and certainly there are risks in going to conference
with the House and its enforcement-only approach. But Democrats putting
political self-interest over solving a serious policy problem ought to worry
that their actions will backfire with the very people whose interests they are
purporting to protect.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              247 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Other Ethnic Groups to Join Rallies;
Immigration Concerns Asians and Africans, Too, Leaders Say

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 778 words


The recent demonstrations by hundreds of thousands of immigration supporters
appeared to have one distinct face: Latino. But members of Asian, African,
Haitian and other ethnic groups say that is an illusion that they will dispel by
pouring out in large numbers at huge rallies planned for tomorrow.

Koreans said they will march in Philadelphia and Los Angeles, banging
traditional protest drums. Chinese said they will parade out of Chinatowns in
San Francisco, New York, Chicago and Philadelphia, led by marchers wearing
colorful dragon costumes. Haitians said they will be heard in Miami and New
York, and Africans said they will be among the tens of thousands who will gather
at the  Washington   Monument.

A big majority of people living in the United States illegally  --  80 percent
--  come from Mexico and Latin America. Another 13 percent are from Asia, Africa
and other nations, and 6 percent are from Canada and Europe, according to a
study by the Pew Hispanic Center.

But as Latino grass-roots organizations made their case in news conferences and
organized protests that drew hundreds of thousands, other immigrant groups said
they feared being ignored. At a recent Capitol Hill news conference to announce
plans for tomorrow's marches and to show solidarity among immigrant groups,
churches, unions and traditional civil rights groups, there were no Asians or
West Indians and only one black representative, local union leader Emil Abate.

"All of what is happening around immigration reform in the country is not a
Latino-originated movement at all," said Deepa Iyer, executive director of the
South Asian American Leaders of Tomorrow, a national group based in Silver
Spring. "There are also Asian and African groups working together. From where I
stand, I feel that our community is greatly invested in the issue."

Asian groups have become particularly concerned about immigration as the United
States steps up its efforts to deport illegal Chinese and Korean immigrants. The
Department of Homeland Security recently said that it is close to an agreement
with China over the repatriation of about 39,000 Chinese immigrants. Korean
activists said families have been torn apart when immigrant parents were
deported while their American-born children remained in the United States.

Helen Gym of Asian Americans United in Philadelphia said Latinos are better
organized, in large part because of their common language. Communicating with
Asian groups is a daunting task. "You have to distill massive amounts of
legislation, measures and news, and then you have to translate into your
vernacular for Asian immigrants," Gym said. "In Philadelphia alone, there are
three major Chinese dialects: Cantonese, Mandarin and Fujianese." In addition,
there are Vietnamese, Korean and Tagalog, the language of many Filipinos.

The immigration legislation proposed by House Judiciary Committee Chairman F.
James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) caught the attention of Asians who "come to the
country and don't want to rock the boat," Gym said. But the arrest of Zhenxing
Jiang, a pregnant Chinese immigrant who contended she lost twins while in
custody, stirred a hornet's nest among Asians nationwide, Gym and other
activists said.

"She enabled us to make the message clearer," Gym said. "All you had to say is
'What happened to Mrs. Jiang?' and people got it."

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials who arrested Jiang strongly denied
that she was mistreated, but Tuyet Le, executive director of the Asian American
Institute in Chicago, said Asians there are fully aware of her case.

In Washington, Chuks D. Eleonu, president of African-PAC, said his group
contacted the Arlington-based Ethiopian Community Development Council this week
to help distribute fliers in English, Swahili and French and bring Africans to
the Mall. Africans have also used word-of-mouth to connect.

"We have been talking to everybody,  cabdrivers  and at grocery stores," said
Ben Mitiku, a leader in Washington's Ethiopian community and co-owner of the
African Yellow Pages. "We will turn out."

Jocelyn McCalla, executive director of the National Coalition of Haitian Rights,
said his group alone will bring about 2,000 Haitians to a rally at New York's
Liberty State Park. He said that number does not include other Caribbean
immigrants.

Jean Michel, executive director of the Chay Pa Lou Community Center, which
serves Haitians in Brooklyn, said Haitian TV and radio show hosts have been
talking about the rallies. "We've organized the community and informed them," he
said, "so they can be part of this society, so they won't stay behind making $2
an hour and such."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              248 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Issue of Jobs Affects View of Immigration;
Black Laborers' Personal And Policy Stances Collide

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1085 words


Around sunrise on a crystal-blue morning, John Henry Ford and a knot of other
day laborers waited for work on a scruffy Washington street corner. He was a
rare sight among the men waiting anxiously outside a paint store chatting away
in Spanish: a black handyman in a labor pool dominated by undocumented Latino
workers.

"They came over here, in a sense, to replace us," Ford said. But he had no hard
feelings. "Me as a black man around Latinos, I get along with them better than
some in my own culture."

During the noisy debate over illegal immigration arguments about "fairness" and
"compassion" have filled the air. But for low-income, low-skilled people such as
Ford  --  a disproportionate  number of them black  --  another idea,
"competition," confronts them nearly every day. Yet despite seeing themselves as
being increasingly displaced by migrants from Mexico and Central America, many
black people like Ford  --  and the leaders who claim to represent them  --
tend to have a favorable view of immigrants.

In a recent poll by the Pew Research Center and the Pew Hispanic Center, nearly
a quarter of black respondents said they had personally lost a job to an
immigrant or knew someone who had. Less than a fifth of white respondents said
that.

But when asked if legal immigration should be cut back, the tables turned. Black
people were less likely to say yes than white people  --  34 percent, compared
with 44 percent. On another question  --  whether immigrants are a burden  --
two-thirds of both groups answered yes.

"We're not anti-immigrant," Lita Herron, a black activist, said at a recent
roundtable discussion on immigration in Los Angeles. "The problem is, it puts us
at odds with people who are trying to do the same thing we're trying to do: make
a living, put a roof over our heads."

The issues of whether immigrants are crowding out black people in the labor
market or driving down the wages among low-skilled workers are hotly debated.
Some economists,  including George Borjas of Harvard University, say they are.
"Low-skill . . . illegal immigration has the biggest negative impact on the wage
of low-skill workers," said Borjas, whose research is often cited by those
seeking to restrict immigration. "A disproportionate number of these low-skill
workers happen to be minorities: blacks, Hispanics and earlier immigrant
arrivals."

Some other economists say it is difficult to separate the impact of immigrants
on black employment prospects from other issues such as discrimination and the
large percentage of low-skilled, poorly educated black men who have criminal
records.

Whatever the truth, it is clear that many black people believe strongly that
they are losing jobs, neighborhoods and status to the estimated 11 million or
more undocumented workers who are in the country.

In places where black Americans mix with immigrants  --  Washington, New York,
Los Angeles, Houston and Miami  --  there is a measurable tension. Traditionally
black neighborhoods now belong to Latinos. Black parents have complained about
school PTA meetings being conducted entirely in Spanish. Over the past decade,
black and Latino prison inmates have battled for supremacy in riots that often
turn deadly.

Earl Ofari Hutchinson, a black journalist, said he recently got an earful when
he wrote a series of  articles that favored reform. "I got so many e-mails and
calls from people saying, 'How dare you take a position in support of
immigration reform? They're taking our jobs.' That's at the heart of why so many
African Americans are so fearful," he said. "It's not the schools, it's not the
jails. It comes down to the economics and the jobs. I hear over and over,
'They're taking all the jobs.' "

Such feelings are seldom voiced by black politicians and civil rights leaders,
who tend to emphasize working with Latino groups to form a united front for
civil rights. Last week, for example, the NAACP issued a news release calling on
Congress to approve a comprehensive immigration  package that allows immigrants
to legally work and become citizens, mirroring calls by the National Council of
La Raza and the League of United Latin American Citizens.

Ronald Walters, a University of Maryland professor of political science, said
black civil rights groups might be doing their communities a disservice. Like
President Bush, he said, they are wrong in saying that immigrants are taking
low-skill jobs that Americans do not want. He believes Americans reject low
wages that desperate immigrants workers keep driving down.

In the Washington area, where Central American immigration has thoroughly
changed the demographic landscape, black opinions on immigration are more harsh,
said Scott Keeter, director of survey research for the Pew Research Center.

"Blacks here have more negative impressions than blacks nationally," he said.
"But even at that, they are not overwhelmingly negative toward immigrants by any
means."

The Pew survey of 2,000 was taken between Feb. 8 and March 7. Its sample of
black respondents was much smaller than the 900 African Americans who answered
questions on immigration for a 1999 survey conducted by the Joint Center for
Political and Economic Studies, a black think tank.

Nearly half of black respondents in the Joint Center survey felt that illegal
immigration was a major problem, and more than half  --  52 percent  --  said it
had led to the loss of too many lower paying jobs. Fifty-one percent said the
country could not afford more illegal immigrants.

As in the Pew poll, black people were of two minds. Exactly half told the Joint
Center that they thought the increasing diversity made America a better place.
Which is pretty much what A.D. Thomas said as he stood in line for a job with
dozens of Latino workers at 15th and P streets NW.

"Years ago, there weren't any Hispanics here," Thomas said. "But everybody got
to make a living, to do the best they can." He acknowledged that Latino cliques
bypass black handymen. But he took the discrimination in stride, saying they
prefer "working with people they're more comfortable with."

Latinos, he said, "have the reputation, true or false, of being so-called better
workers." Nearby, the third and last black man in the labor pool, who identified
himself only as Damon, for fear that his comments would cost him work, scoffed
at that.

"When customers come here, they'll pick a Spanish guy over a black guy in a
minute," Damon said.

Staff writer Sonya Geis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              249 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Organizers Expect Crush for Immigrant Rights Rally;
Up to 180,000 Protesters May Converge on Mall

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos and Aruna Jain, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1329 words


In churches, shops and sidewalks across the Washington region yesterday,
thousands of people bustled in preparation for a rally that immigration
advocates say could be a pivotal moment for Latinos and other groups seeking to
demonstrate their political clout.

Organizers of the National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice  --  or La
Marcha, as some volunteers are calling it  --  said it could draw as many as
180,000 people to the Mall and hundreds of thousands more in nearly 100 cities
nationwide.

Although no one knows for certain how many people will show up at the D.C.
rally, the event has the potential to complicate the afternoon rush hour.

This afternoon, scores of buses will begin moving protesters from throughout the
region to the District. CASA of Maryland, an immigrant rights group, has
arranged for more than 40 buses to take them to Seventh Street NW between
Madison and Jefferson drives. Fifteen additional buses will run a loop six times
between CASA's Silver Spring office and the Takoma Metro station and are
expected to carry about 5,000 people, said Kim Propeack, advocacy director for
CASA.

Mexicanos Sin Fronteras, a D.C.-based immigrant rights group, will send about 20
buses from Virginia to Meridian Hill Park in the Adams Morgan area, said Farah
Fosse of the Latino Economic Development Corp., a local organizer.

There, the participants will join neighborhood residents in a march down 16th
and 15th streets NW to the Mall. Police plan to temporarily close some streets
along the way.

A Metro spokesman said officials would monitor the situation and could decide to
extend the evening rush, keeping the maximum number of cars on the tracks.

"We are very excited and energized, but at the same time there's a lot of
pressure to ensure everything is going to be smooth," said Gustavo Torres,
executive director of CASA.

Yesterday, with less than 24 hours to go before the rally, organizers scrambled
as they prepared to move thousands of bodies, conceding that they weren't sure
how they would do it.

"It's just wild. I don't know how to describe it," Propeack said. "As of 24
hours ago, we said, 'No more transportation,' and people are just phoning us off
the hook. They want more."

Projected turnout, said Lt. Kathleen Harasek of the U.S. Park Police, "is well
within what we're normally trained to handle. . . . We're comfortable with it,
and we're not stressing out over it."

Across California alone, about 20 events are planned for today, ranging from a
rally in Bakersfield to a ceremony in San Diego dedicated to immigrants who have
died trying to cross the border illegally.

The demonstrations, which are being coordinated by an umbrella organization
known as the National Capital Immigration Coalition, began yesterday in more
than 20 cities, including Dallas, where police estimated that 300,000 to 350,000
people gathered.

In Dallas, many waved U.S. flags and wore white clothing to symbolize peace, the
Associated Press reported. There were no reports of violence.

The events will continue today in cities small and large, including Phoenix, New
York, Seattle and Chicago. The rally on the Mall was expected to be among the
largest, although with an estimated Hispanic population of 576,000 in 2004, the
Washington region isn't among the 10 U.S. metropolitan areas with the most
Hispanics.

Frustration among immigrant groups has increased since a bipartisan compromise
to rewrite the nation's immigration laws fell apart last week when Democrats
rejected demands from conservative Republicans for numerous changes, some
designed to limit the number of illegal immigrants who could become eligible for
citizenship.

"I think people have to realize that enough is enough in the bashing of
immigrants," said Del. Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George's). "We can't be the
scapegoats for everything that happens in this country. We're just as American
as everyone else."

But some organizations, such as the Minuteman Project, a national anti-illegal
immigration group, oppose the demonstrations. Stephen Schreiman, director of the
Maryland chapter, said only U.S. citizens should have the right to protest on
U.S. land.

"Unfortunately, American laws do not ban foreigners from protesting on our
soil," he said. "They've got the legal right to go out there and protest."

He added that he doesn't think the demonstrations will be effective. "Who are
they influencing? They're not influencing Congress," Schreiman said.

Although Latinos make up the vast majority of protesters expected, organizations
representing other immigrants also said they would send people.

For instance, several hundred Korean Americans are planning to go to the Mall,
said Chung Pak of the League of Korean Americans of Maryland. He added that many
Korean American business owners who employ Latinos are letting them take the day
off with full pay.

The Archdiocese of Washington announced yesterday that it would send Cardinal
Theodore McCarrick to give the opening prayer at the rally, planned for 4:30
p.m., spokeswoman Susan Gibbs said.

Organizers fanned out yesterday in a last-minute effort to generate enthusiasm
and support for the march. They urged people to wear white T-shirts to symbolize
peace and carry U.S. flags.

"We are all Americans," said Carlos Castera, a CASA official. "We want to show
we support this country. We contribute to the economy of this country."

Behind the Tenant and Workers United Association building in Alexandria, more
than 200 children, teenagers and their families painted signs that read,
"Legalización Ahora" ("Legalization Now") as they ate pupusas and listened to a
group of young men perform reggaeton. Draped on a wire fence nearby was a banner
that read, "¡No Racismo!" ("No Racism!").

"We have to show that we are not criminals. We work. We work for a better life,"
said Jose Trejo, a bricklayer from Alexandria who was planning to take the day
off from work to attend the rally.

At St. Camillus Church in Silver Spring, Sandra Martinez, a 32-year-old native
of Mexico who lives in Rockville, handed out fliers in English, Spanish and
French as worshipers pulled their cars into the parking lot on Palm Sunday.

Most of the people going to church were Hispanic, but Martinez and other
volunteers reached out to the many African immigrants who attended Mass.

"It's not just a Latino thing," Martinez said. "I think it applies to everyone
who comes into this country."

Maria Perez, a 56-year-old Takoma Park resident and native of the Dominican
Republic, said in Spanish that she plans to go to the rally with her 19-year-old
daughter and 51-year-old sister.

"I think tomorrow is a very important day for us," she said as she stood in the
parking lot of St. Camillus after Mass. "All Latinos should support each other."

Walking up and down the busy business strip in Mount Pleasant yesterday,
everyone seemed to know about the rally.

And for anyone who didn't, there were reminders such as the fluorescent pink
poster plastered on the door of Don Juan's Restaurant & Carryout urging people
to join the demonstration.

Marguerita Maldonado, who is from El Salvador, has her green card, thanks in
part to a program that gave citizens of her country, once beset by civil war,
temporary protection.

But when she first arrived in the United States, in 1996, Maldonado had no such
protection, she said. She was afforded temporary protection in 1991. Not until
last year did she receive permanent residency, and only then did she finally
feel at peace.

"I was part of the country," said Maldonado, the owner of Pollo and Pizza, a
little place on the north end of Mount Pleasant Street NW.

And she wants others to have that opportunity, which is why she thinks the
rally, which she plans to attend, is so important.

"At least people are not sitting down," she said.

Staff writers Ann E. Marimow, Henri E. Cauvin, Martin Weil and Allan Lengel
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              250 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

THIS WEEK

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 379 words


Latinos are planning the biggest-ever nationwide rally of immigrants today, a
60-city extravaganza that organizers say will attract millions of participants.
Their target: efforts by Congress to restrict immigration.

But the demonstrators may be giving lawmakers a bit too much credit. Congress,
failing last week to pass immigration legislation, a budget or much of anything
else, goes on yet another vacation, this one a two-week Easter recess. After a
tentative agreement on an immigration bill collapsed in the Senate on Friday,
the matter is heading back to the Judiciary Committee's drawing board.

Check Out the Willie Mays Memorabilia: The nation's newest tourist attraction,
the George W. Bush Boyhood Home, opens tomorrow in Midland, Tex. The first lady
and the president's parents will be on hand to cut a ribbon and reminisce at
1412 W. Ohio Ave. The vice president, meanwhile, throws out the first pitch at
the Washington Nationals' home opener. The pressing question: Will he take the
mound and do the full windup, as Bush does, or will he make a wimpy toss from
the stands like William Howard Taft?

The Forgotten Upper Class: Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton gives the first major
economic speech as a proto-presidential candidate. Her venue: tomorrow's
black-tie 78th annual dinner meeting of the Economic Club of Chicago. Don't
expect a lot of fiery populist rhetoric from the New York Democrat; she doesn't
want her hosts busting their cummerbunds or falling in their foie gras. The
president referred to a similarly attired crowd as his base: "The haves and the
have-mores."

Newt in '08! Fallen House speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) continues his effort to
revive his political viability with a stop Wednesday in New Hampshire, where
he's speaking about health care.

Drip, Drip, Drip: Former Cheney aide I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, indicted in the
CIA leak case, has until Wednesday to make his latest court filing.
Scandalmongers also await the press's first opportunity to question the
president about the allegation that he authorized Libby's leaks. After today's
speech on Iraq at Johns Hopkins's School of Advanced International Studies? On a
campaign trip to Iowa tomorrow? With the Ghanaian president at the White House
on Wednesday?

--  Dana Milbank

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              251 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2006 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Day Labor Site Tensions Consume Herndon Race

BYLINE: Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1244 words


Last summer, Herndon council member Carol A. Bruce turned to a colleague opposed
to the bitterly contested new day labor center and said, "Shame on you." This
week, she tried a more upbeat message.

At a forum for candidates running in the May 2 municipal elections, Bruce
concluded her opening statement by touching on bright spots of the town of
23,000 near Dulles International Airport, such as its restaurants, golf course
and annual festival.

"We know how to have fun," she said, resolutely.

The election, the town's first since the council voted 5 to 2 in August to
create a place for immigrant day laborers to connect with employers, has been
anything but.

As Congress debates fundamental changes in immigration law and  hundreds of
thousands of immigrants march to demand legal status, Herndon's contest for
mayor and six at-large Town Council seats has become a referendum  in all but
name  on the roiling national debate.

Although other issues  --  taxes, overcrowded housing and growth  --  are part
of the conversation, the Herndon Official Workers Center remains the central
source of political tension in a town with the highest proportion of
foreign-born residents of any locality in the Washington area. According to
census data, its Latino community grew 264 percent during the 1990s, while the
percentage of white residents dropped from 78 percent to 58 percent.

The campaign has been marked by a series of incidents, including an anonymous,
automated telephone "push" poll that asked leading questions about immigration
and a peculiar string of similarly anonymous postcards that seem to ridicule the
challengers. There are also persistent charges  --  unsubstantiated  --  that
money has flowed into the race from national organizations that favor sharp
restrictions on immigration.

Four of the five incumbents who voted to approve the center  --  Mayor Michael
L. O'Reilly and council members Bruce, Steven D. Mitchell and J. Harlon Reece
--  are running for reelection, as is one of the panel's two dissenters, council
member Dennis D. Husch.

Five challengers have emerged to call for significant changes in where and how
the center operates when its town permit is up for renewal in 2007. Most want to
eliminate Fairfax County funds devoted to the program and move the operation off
its town-owned site to a private location. Others have called for the center to
serve only documented workers. A sixth candidate, Robert Rudine, who is active
with the Minutemen and Help Save Herndon  --  groups opposed to the labor center
--  dropped out of the race.

Newspapers and Web sites are swollen with charges and countercharges, demands
for apologies and appeals to the better angels of the town's nature.

"Who would Jesus deport: them . . . or you?" one posting asks.

Even subjects not directly related to the worker center, such as overcrowding in
boarding  and single-family houses, lead back to the same quandry over
immigration. At this week's forum, many candidates cast the election in the
starkest terms.

"This is a battle for the soul of Herndon," said Reece, a retired Marine
lieutenant colonel and three-term council member, calling the election a choice
between "fear, pessimism and division" and "hope, unity and resolve."

"There are those who would build walls in our community to keep our cultures
apart," said Jorge Rochac, a first-time council candidate who has worked at the
labor center and as a Spanish-language instructor for Herndon police. If
elected, he would be the town's first Hispanic council member.

Several challengers evoked nostalgic imagery from the town's past. "Herndon is
very special to me," said Connie H. Hutchinson, a former council member and
manager of the Herndon Dulles Visitors Center, who said she wants to preserve
the "hometown atmosphere" she believes is at risk. She proposes moving the
center to an industrial park and establishing a "virtual labor-matching system"
in which workers would come only once to register and then would be contacted
when an opportunity emerges that fits their skills.

O'Reilly's opponent, health club operator Steve DeBenedittis, and council
candidate William B. "Bill" Tirrell, a member of the Town Planning Commission,
also want the center moved and government funding cut off.

David A. Kirby, a retired federal government IT officer, said the labor center
should deal only with documented workers. According to his Web site, he also
wants to work with the General Assembly "to give our local law enforcement the
authority to check legal status of those suspected of committing a crime."

Charlie D. Waddell, president of the Herndon Community Association Coalition,
said he wants to forge a "consensus" among opposing factions but did not
elaborate.

As for the center, established to eliminate the chaotic ad hoc hiring site that
had sprung up in a 7-Eleven parking lot, daily operations have moved ahead
without recent incident. Bill Threlkeld of Project Hope and Harmony, which
operates the center for Reston Interfaith Inc., a nonprofit group that has
received slightly more than $200,000 from Fairfax for the project, said that
with the milder spring weather, about half of the 100 or so workers who come out
in the morning find employment. Herndon police report no serious complaints from
the nearby residential neighborhood, save for the occasional call about workers
cutting across lawns.

"Just a few here and there," said Sgt. Darcy Burns, the department's
spokeswoman.

The election has played out against a backdrop of incidents that some candidates
say confirm the presence of outside money and influence. The automated push poll
asked questions in a way that would elicit negative answers about the town's
policies.

"The questions were like, 'Do you think it is right to pay your tax dollars to
support illegal immigration?' and 'Do you think there should be a change in
leadership?' " said Leila McDowell, a member of HEART (Herndon Embraces All In
Respect and Tolerance), a group that supports the council's decision to open the
center.

Some politically active residents say council member Ann V. Null, who cast one
of the two votes against the center, has been a key behind-the-scenes figure in
assembling the group of challengers. "In my estimation, she has been a thorn in
the side of the council and progress in this town," said former council member
John DeNoyer, a HEART member. DeNoyer and Bruce said Null, who is not running
for reelection, has offered to make money available to those opposed to the
labor center. Candidates in towns with less than 25,000 people are not required
to disclose campaign contributions.

"I'm flattered," said Null, who denied having an organizing role. Null, the
object of Bruce's "Shame on you" remark, said Bruce once threw a tin of Altoids
at her during a council work session (Bruce says it never happened) and added
that she was "broke" and had invested "not a dime in the race."

Other developments in the campaigns have just been flat out inexplicable.
Candidates and residents have received a series of anonymous, idiosyncratic
postcards. One, addressed to "Pizza Lover," uses the famous photograph of 1988
Democratic presidential candidate Michael S. Dukakis riding a tank. It says:
"Angry candidates look downright foolish pretending to be 'Guardians of the
Gate.' Choose your Herndon Town Council candidates wisely."

"I have no idea what it means," O'Reilly said.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              252 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Nearby Mexican Towns, Rallies Are Big News

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico April 10


La Jornada, the left-leaning Mexico City newspaper, splashed the story across
its front page Monday, running a giant photograph of demonstrators and declaring
the U.S. immigration rallies "historic." Street hawkers in Ciudad Juarez touted
the latest edition of El Mexicano, showcasing a tight shot of a Catholic priest
standing beneath a crucifix and exhorting the faithful to rally for immigrants'
rights across the border in El Paso.

In parts of Mexico, especially along the border, the immigration rallies being
held in Washington and elsewhere in the United States were big news, accompanied
by blaring headlines and front-page editorials. But elsewhere in the country,
the reportage was decidedly subdued  --  a far cry from the intense coverage by
the Spanish-language news media in the United States that has been credited with
helping to promote the rallies.

The news media here that are covering the events have seized on fears that
illegal immigrants may one day be considered felons and that the people who
employ them will be penalized. The news media also have gushed about the size of
the protests: "The largest in memory," said the online edition of El Mexicano in
Tijuana.

The tone, while exuberant, also struck cautionary notes. El Diario de El Paso, a
Spanish-language daily read by thousands of workers who stream into the United
States each day from Ciudad Juarez, urged demonstrators in a front-page
editorial not to "wave Mexican flags in the noses of proud Americans. The most
sensible thing to do would be to carry both flags: the United States flag as a
sign of respect for that country and the Mexican flag to represent the pride
demonstrators feel for their roots."

El Mexicano focused its coverage on calls for peaceful demonstrations. The paper
noted that the same Catholic priest who called for crowds to gather in El Paso
also pleaded for "order, so that the demonstrations won't turn into anarchy."

Although the rallies dominated cable news coverage in the United States, they
were not enough to bump lighter fare off the air here. A dating show called
"Twelve Hearts" and the venerable soap operas known as telenovelas kept on
playing. In El Paso, Telefutura, a network owned by the powerful
Spanish-language network Univision, stuck with its celebrity gossip hit,
"Escandalo TV," or "Scandal TV," while demonstrators were massing in the streets
of Washington.

Reforma, an influential daily in the capital, did not deem the rallies
front-page news; El Universal, another widely read Mexico City newspaper, used a
news service story.

Still, the radio waves in El Paso and across the border in Ciudad Juarez pounded
out a steady stream of announcements urging people to gather for protests in El
Paso's San Jacinto Plaza. "For pride," one announcer on Radio 13 declared. And
the day's rallies were big enough to light up the editors at El Mexicano. Their
online edition carried the headline: "Impressive."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              253 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hundreds of Thousands Rally in Cities Large and Small

BYLINE: Sonya Geis and Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 1183 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX April 10


Victor Colex came marching out of the shadows Monday, draped in American flags
from his hat to his measuring tape and demanding recognition from a nation he
regards as his own.

Typically the 37-year-old Mexican-born worker earns $7 to $8 an hour building
fences in this fast-growing region. But this Monday he joined a 100,000-strong
river of humanity, from mothers pushing strollers with flag-waving toddlers to
slouching construction workers to old men wearing wide-brimmed cowboy hats, all
marching on the state Capitol to demand that Congress not criminalize illegal
immigrants.

"We are not asking for favors," he said. "We only want to work, for our families
and parents and children. We want what's just."

Across the United States, in the nation's largest cities and some of its smaller
towns, hundreds of thousands of immigrants and children of immigrants, labor
unions and civic associations took to the streets in an immigrant "Day of
Action." The hope was that their chants might echo in the halls of Congress,
where lawmakers have debated immigration legislation for weeks.

The turnout numbers cumulatively soared into the hundreds of thousands.
Fifty-thousand people snaked two miles through an immigrant neighborhood in
Atlanta. San Francisco, Austin and Madison, Wis., each had rallies that
attracted 10,000. An estimated 3,000 people took to the streets of Garden City,
Kan., a farming community in the southwest corner of that state. In New York
City, 30,000 people of various hues and nationalities  --  not least young Arab
American women wearing Calvin Klein hijabs  --  took a thumping, chanting walk
down lower Broadway.

At least 350,000 people rallied in downtown Dallas on Sunday, and organizers now
talk of an economic boycott in a collective demonstration of muscle.

The atmosphere Monday was as often festive. Anti-illegal-immigrant rhetoric
bubbles near the boiling point in Arizona, where the Minutemen patrol the border
regions and Sen. Jon Kyl (R) has endorsed guest-worker legislation that would
require immigrants who are working illegally to return to their countries when
their visas expire. But few hints of discord could be heard in Phoenix.

In fact, some immigrants spoke of being inspired by the numbers in the streets
Monday and by the failure so far in Washington of any legislation that would
crack down on illegal immigrants. Daniel Quintero, a native of Mexico and now a
legal resident here, walked with his wife, young daughter and baby. "I was a
person who would say this isn't going to make a difference," he said. "But with
the first march, there was a change in the government. I think we are making a
lot of noise, and we are going to continue to."

Eliz Gerardo, a 17-year-old high school junior, stood in the sharp Southwestern
sunlight with her friends. She wore a sticker: "Somos America, We Are America."
Immigrant high school students have led impromptu walkouts for weeks. But Eliz
said her mother called in and asked permission for her to leave school Monday.

"My parents are immigrants," she said. "We Mexicans are not here to fight
against Americans. We're here to become Americans."

The sense often was that immigrants were surfacing Monday, emerging into the
spotlight by the thousands from the restaurants and gardening companies and
hotels where so many labor. Eduardo Romero, a 32-year-old Peruvian immigrant who
works near Madison, said the size of the rally drove home just how many Latinos
live there.

"There are so many immigrants supporting this economy," he said. "Something has
to happen one way or another."

In Oakland, Calif., the Rev. Antonio Valdivia, pastor of St. Louis Bertrand
Catholic Church in East Oakland, gripped a palm frond like a walking stick and
led a 5,000-strong procession down the middle of International Boulevard. Many
waved American flags. Some, such as Elizabeth Arce, 17, marched for their
parents. "I'm not illegal, but my parents are," she said.

Farther south, in Santa Ana, janitor Jose Hernandez waved an American flag in
one hand and a Mexican flag in the other. "We are looking for respect," he said.
"I want papers for everyone, my family and me."

Many demonstrators drew no distinction between those who live here legally and
those who lack documents. To be an immigrant, they said, is to live along a
continuum. In Lake Worth, on the southeast coast of Florida, 4,000 demonstrators
rallied in the 90-degree heat. Several crews from Somerset Landscaping showed
up, a group nearly evenly divided between the legal and the illegal.

Enrique Garcia, 24, said his company knew the crews would take time off to
attend the rally. "It's been all over the place for two weeks. We came here to
show solidarity for our people," he said. "There is not enough work in Mexico,
and we love America. We are America."

At that same rally, a group of young men wrapped in Mexican flags declined to
give their names to a reporter but spoke bluntly in Spanish of their work. "We
take the jobs Americans don't want," said an 18-year-old with a full grill on
his teeth. "They are too lazy or too scared."

Another one laughed and added: "Or too scared of the sun."

Monday's demonstrations were in no fashion spontaneous eruptions. The organizing
took weeks, and by this past weekend organizers in many cities had passed out
fliers everywhere in immigrant neighborhoods  --  taping them to lampposts and
to bakery and laundry windows.

Ethnic newspapers and Spanish-language radio and television stations thumped on
the need for a big turnout. Hoy, a New York Spanish-language newspaper,
declared: "Ready to Make History."

Pastors spoke from pulpits and union rank-and-file workers made phone calls.
Mary Crump  of Bethpage, Long Island, listened to the bishop of her United
Methodist Church endorse the New York march from the pulpit Sunday. "He said to
come so here I am," she said.

Hillary Exter, a college administrator in the Bronx, came for reasons of
personal history. She is the granddaughter of Jewish immigrants who fled czarist
Russia, and she wanted to show solidarity with a new generation of immigrants.
"I can't imagine they came with a visa," Exter said of her grandparents. "Their
situation was not at all different from now."

In Queens, a Salvadoran-born veteran organizer said his coalition took root in
the struggle, ultimately unsuccessful, to stop New York state from cracking down
on driver's licenses for illegal immigrants. And disc jockeys on
Spanish-language radio often encouraged the dozens of rallies and student
walkouts across the nation.

Against this backdrop, Diego Vasquez's decision to march is perhaps unusual. A
Columbian living in New Jersey, he is a political refugee and has waited three
years for his green card. He figured it was better not to march. Then from his
lawyer's office in Manhattan he heard the ruckus coming down Broadway. He walked
downstairs and fell in step.

"I cannot forever sit in limbo," said Vasquez, a broad-faced 34-year-old. "Today
I'm standing up for my fellow immigrants  --  it makes me feel free."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              254 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Nation Built on Immigrant Genes

BYLINE: John D. Gartner

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 625 words


If you've been following the big immigration debate, you might get the
impression that the primary economic advantage of liberal economic immigration
policies is that they supply America with low-wage workers willing to do
grueling, unskilled jobs that native-born Americans won't touch. Not true: They
are the source of America's success.

The secret to America's wealth is that we were settled by restless, driven,
overconfident, risk-taking dreamers. As I have explained in a book on the
subject, these traits are all signs of a genetically based, mildly manic
temperament, which is not a mental illness, called hypomania.

Hypomanic traits have been part of the American character since the country's
beginning. In the 1830s, Tocqueville noted that Americans were "restless in the
midst of abundance," always moving, always working and perpetually hurling
themselves into one new business venture after another. Not coincidentally, in
my research, I found that entrepreneurs have these same traits.

America is an amazing natural experiment  --  a continent populated largely by
self-selected immigrants. All these people had the get-up-and-go to pull up
stakes and come here, a temperament that made them different from their friends
and relatives who stayed home. Immigrants are the original venture capitalists,
risking their human capital  --  their lives  --  on a dangerous and arduous
voyage into the unknown.

Not surprisingly, given this entrepreneurial spirit, immigrants are
self-employed at much higher rates than native-born people, regardless of what
nation they emigrate to or from. And the rate of entrepreneurial activity in a
nation is correlated with the number of immigrants it absorbs. According to a
cross-national study, "The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor," conducted jointly
by Babson College and the London School of Economics, the four nations with the
highest per capita creation of new companies are the United States, Canada,
Israel and Australia  --  all nations of immigrants. New company creation per
capita is a strong predictor of gross domestic product, and so the conclusion is
simple: Immigrants equal national wealth.

Andrew Carnegie, a 19th century Scottish immigrant and, quite a manic
personality, who started working in a factory for pennies a day and became the
richest man in the world by mass-producing steel, made the same argument.
Immigrants, he wrote, were unusually "capable, energetic and ambitious" people.
They had to be. "The old and the destitute, the idle and the contented do not
brave the waves of the stormy Atlantic, but sit helplessly at home." He called
the flow of people into America the "golden stream" that contributed more to
America's wealth than "all the gold mines in the world." It's as true today as
it was then. The Scottish, Irish, Italians, Japanese and Eastern Europeans were
last century's Mexicans  --  unwashed hordes, thought to be good only for cheap
labor.

Let's get the lesson of Sept. 11 right. We need to screen who gets into the
United States, to keep out the suicide bombers. But if they're not here to kill
us, chances are they will inject new life into our economy. In my book, I
predicted that future historians will be able to date the beginning of the
decline of the American empire to the day we stop being the destination of
choice for immigrants. Ominously, U.S. immigration peaked in 2000. Is this the
beginning of the end? I hope Osama bin Laden will not end the great American
experiment.

The writer is an assistant professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins University
Medical School and author of "The Hypomanic Edge: The Link Between (a Little)
Craziness and (a Lot of) Success in America." His e-mail address is
johndgartner@comcast.net.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              255 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

The Immigrants Rally;
What yesterday's demonstrations tell us about the state of the debate

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 407 words


THE SUN SHONE down on the Mall yesterday as tens of thousands of mostly Hispanic
immigrants gathered to call for legal recognition. Many carried American flags;
some brought children. The speeches began with the Pledge of Allegiance. Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) quoted his brother, President John F. Kennedy: "We
are a nation of immigrants." As in other cities across the country, the numbers
were impressive and the crowd was peaceful.

Nevertheless, it is far from clear what kind of effect these rallies will have.
Some Democrats and union leaders have been quick to attach themselves to the
protests, hoping that Hispanics will turn away from the administration and
Republicans in general. Yet on conservative talk shows and in the
anti-immigration slice of cyberspace, the rallies have been welcomed on the
grounds that they will scare other Americans and turn them against the
immigration compromise that the Senate nearly reached last week. Looking at
yesterday's crowd in Washington, it was possible to see how perceptions could
run either way. Yes, the demonstrators waved U.S. flags  --  but most of the
speakers spoke Spanish or had English interpreters. Yes, they recited the Pledge
of Allegiance  --  but the rally also attracted hard-left groups that aren't
likely to appeal to the average television viewer watching the scene on the
evening news.

It's impossible to predict how the rallies will be received in part because
there is no consensus on what to do about the estimated 12 million people who
live and work here illegally, which in turn is reflected in the lack of
political consensus. Having come close to compromise, partisan pressures may now
push Republicans toward building higher walls, Democrats toward calling for a
straightforward "amnesty." No wonder nobody close to the issue in Congress seems
certain whether it is possible to save a comprehensive immigration reform bill
at all.

But, as the size of the rallies also makes clear, there is one group that knows
what it wants. A recent poll of undocumented immigrants published by the
National Immigration Forum and the Manhattan Institute shows that 98 percent
wished to learn English, 98 percent would become legal residents if they could,
and virtually all would be willing to be fingerprinted and pay a fine and back
taxes to become legal, if that were required. Their eagerness to contribute, on
vivid display yesterday, ought to count for a lot.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              256 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Marchers Flood Mall With Passion, Pride;
Many Take Their First Political Step

BYLINE: Sue Anne Pressley, Karin Brulliard and Ernesto Londono, Washington Post
Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1388 words


They swept onto the Mall by the tens of thousands, waving American flags and
chanting, in Spanish, "Here we are, and we're not leaving."

With voices raised in protest, with placards in English and in the language of
their homelands and with slogans scrawled across white T-shirts worn to
symbolize their peaceful intent, the assembled mass delivered a simple message:
We are Americans now, too.

"Immigrant nation," read one handwritten sign.

"I'm an immigrant, and I vote," read another.

"Brown and proud," one announced.

"Nigeria Present," on another, reminded the overwhelmingly Latino crowd that
immigrants have arrived here from all over.

For many, the rally was their first political experience. Ranks of young men who
listened in respectful silence, high-school students taking advantage of their
spring break, immigrant mothers arriving with young children and day laborers
who live in fear of deportation turned out in force.

"Every Hispanic has to stand up. Every person who believes in justice has to
stand up," said Anna Torres, 38, a federal worker from Mount Pleasant in
Northwest Washington who brought along her sons, Joseph, 6, and Jeremy, 8. They
were waiting to be joined by their father, who came here from Guatemala 15 years
ago and is still an illegal resident.

"I'm here for my friends and my neighbors  --  and my husband," Torres said.
"They are all very hardworking people."

And as the last traces of the late-day sun disappeared behind the Washington
Monument, something of a battle cry was sounded to a crowd frustrated by
Congress's failure to reshape immigration law to their liking.

"This is only the start!" Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA of
Maryland, shouted to them. "We are just starting this movement."

The crowd erupted with an oft-repeated cheer: "Hoy, marchamos; mañana, votamos."

Today, we march; tomorrow, we vote.

As the rally dispersed, the loudspeakers blared what circumstance transformed
into something of an anthem: a Spanish version of Gloria Estefan's "Coming Out
of the Dark."

"This is just the beginning," said Elmer Palmer, 30, of Woodbridge, a real
estate agent originally from El Salvador. "If we don't have a fair response to
this, we'll continue, greater and greater."

Palmer pumped a sign above his head that read, in Spanish, "If you deport me,
who will build the wall?"  --  a reference to proposed legislation that calls
for construction of a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.

"Most of the construction work is done by immigrants. We do the hard work here,"
Palmer said. "If we get deported, who will build the houses?"

The crowd numbered in the tens of thousands, at least 100,000 by the estimate of
one police official who spoke on condition that he not be named. Closer to
500,000, according to Germonique R. Jones, a spokeswoman for the organizers.

Along the route, as protesters marched from a staging area at Meridian Hill
Park, spectator support seemed overwhelming. Office workers leaned out of
windows and piled onto the sidewalks to shout encouragement. About 150 members
of the National Education Association took administrative leave to cheer on the
demonstrators, NEA President Reg Weaver said.

"This issue is of such magnitude to America that we can't stand by and watch
from the sidelines," he said.

Only a few counter-demonstrators were visible. A handful appeared on the east
side of Seventh Street NW, across from the back of the rally stage. One held a
sign that read, "Protect Our Border." Another sign read "Back You Go to Mexico."

At 16th and Church streets NW, Erin Carrington accepted the boos from passersby
as she held a sign that read, "Keep walking  --  Just 1,800 miles till you're
home." Carrington, a 22-year-old graduate student, said she is concerned that
the taxes she pays will increase if immigrants receive benefits.

But the opponents' numbers were minuscule compared with the marchers', who
arrived at the staging area from throughout the region in buses provided by the
National Capital Immigration Coalition, the umbrella group coordinating the
event. Vendors there sold small American, Salvadoran and Mexican flags for $5
and $10.

Charles Vela, a naturalized citizen from El Salvador who lives in Potomac, was
among the first in line.

"I don't think it's fair that people who risk everything to come here live in
fear that they're going to be sent back," said Vela, 54. "We have humanitarian
policies for people in other countries  --  why not here?"

Alan Coleman, a D.C. teacher, said he resents the fact that according to
immigration reform proposals, "we could get in trouble if we help illegal
immigrants, if we don't turn them in."

Coleman was in the thick of the demonstrators, holding a sign decorated with
green shamrocks and reading, "We Were All Immigrants Once."

A 15-year-old from Northwest Washington said he joined the rally because he
feels that he and his family are threatened.

His parents are illegal residents from El Salvador, and he worries that they
could be deported. His mother, who is a custodian at FBI headquarters, and his
father, a landscaper in Virginia, have always stressed the importance of getting
good grades in school so he doesn't end up like them.

"My mom works from 1 p.m. to 10 p.m.," he said. "She's like, 'Stay in school;
you don't want to be like me. You're lucky to be born here.' "

Although the crowd was mostly Latino  --  speakers' statements were routinely
translated from English into Spanish  --  people representing other ethnic
groups also participated. At 16th and I streets, a coalition of Asian American
groups posed for pictures and compared posters as they waited for marchers to
reach them.

Many of them compared the present-day legislation they are battling to the
Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 and the subsequent quotas that limited the number
of immigrants allowed into the United States.

"It's something people still remember and think about," said Lisa Hasegawa,
director of a D.C. Asian advocacy group whose office cleared out to attend the
rally. "I think that history of being excluded and not welcome in the country
--  those things resonate with us. We went through it."

Many in the group had worked furiously to prepare for the event. Anh Phan, with
the Organization of Chinese Americans, kept rejecting possible slogans for signs
until she came up with a winner  --  a poster of panda celebrity Tai Shan with
the caption "Butterstick is the son of immigrants!"

"Well, if we're being precise, it would be 'son of temporary guest workers,'
since they're going back," Phan said.

The group Arabs for Immigrant Rights also participated. Rami El-Amine, an
information technology worker for the federal government, formed the group two
weeks ago to ensure that Arab Americans would be represented at the rally. Badia
Albanna, 32, of Takoma Park brought her 4-month-old daughter, Sama Jahmila, who
was wearing a pink shirt with a white peace sign.

"It's her third march of the year," Albanna said. "She's got to learn to stand
up for stuff, you know? As Arab Americans, our community has been demonized
since the terrorist attacks," she said.

"The Latino struggle is similar to ours. We need to stick together, support each
other."

Laura Castro said she has begun to think that way, too.

An 18-year-old in stylish sunglasses, she wandered away from the stage, her sign
held high above her head. Castro's reasons to be proud were listed on her
homemade sign: "Current HS GPA: 4.13, Class Rank: 14 out of 386, Pres. of
Spanish Club . . . National Honor Society . . . Am I a criminal?"

Castro is in the United States illegally. Having come from Colombia six years
ago to live with her mother in Chesterfield, Va., she overstayed her visa and
never returned home. That means she has no valid Virginia driver's license. She
will start at Virginia Commonwealth University in the fall, studying toward her
goal of becoming a doctor. She will pay out-of-state tuition, and she will not
receive any scholarships or grants.

"Because of my status," she said.

But Castro also has had a realization: The issue of immigration has inspired her
to speak out and unite her Latino friends, too.

"It used to be like, 'I'm Colombian' or 'I'm from Mexico,' " she said. "Now,
it's like, 'I'm Hispanic, I'm Hispanic.' "

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              257 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

A Banner Day on the Mall;
For Most Marchers, Stars and Stripes Speak Loudest About Loyalties

BYLINE: David Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 1139 words


The flag-waving immigrant is as familiar a presence in this land of immigrants
as pizza, tacos and green beer.

But, which flag? The red, white and blue? Or those other colors, familiar and
foreign at the same time: the blue and white of El Salvador, perhaps; or the
green, white and red of Mexico; the green, white and orange of Ireland; or the
red, white and green of Italy.

After Sept. 11, 2001, American flags went up overnight outside immigrant-owned
businesses, to show patriotism  --  and also just in case the terror-inspired
dark angel of xenophobia stalked the neighborhood. But during the wave of
demonstrations for immigrant rights over the past month, flags of Latin American
countries were unfurled along with the Stars and Stripes, giving critics of the
movement something extra to challenge.

On the Mall yesterday, most of the hundreds of thousands of Hispanics who
rallied for immigrant rights had gotten the memo from organizers. Which flag to
carry? The correct answer, they were told: the Star-Spangled Banner. American
flags outnumbered rivals by thousands to one. CASA of Maryland, one of the
organizing groups, had ordered nearly 11,000 U.S. flags (from a supplier in El
Salvador).

"I feel like we are here, we're going to be here and we might as well get used
to the enjoyment [that any American would have] carrying the American flag,"
said Walter Rivas, 32, who came from El Salvador half his lifetime ago and was
walking with the stars and stripes on a pole over his shoulder.

The power of a flag is a mojo not to be messed with, and, in an immigrant
nation, the decision of whether and which one to carry is fraught with
implications.

One morning last week on WLZL (99.1 FM), a Spanish-language music station known
as El Zol, morning DJ Pedro Biaggi threw open the question to listeners: Which
flag shall we carry at the march?

Opinions were mixed. One man called in and said, "Why should I carry the flag of
a country where, if I had stayed, I would have died of hunger?"

He didn't identify the land of such misery from which he emigrated, and he
acknowledged that things aren't perfect in the United States, but added: "Here
we can earn money." He promised to march with an American flag.

But another caller pointed out that Italian Americans, Dutch Americans and
others show the flags of their old countries without anyone complaining. Why not
Hispanics?

Biaggi, from Puerto Rico, and Doris Depaz, an organizer with CASA from El
Salvador, tried to explain the logic of going all-American for this march.
"Being proud of the United States doesn't take away from where you're from,"
Biaggi said.

"We want to make ourselves welcome," Depaz said. "We want to be under the laws
of this country. . . . We want to be sheltered under the flag of this country."

For the marchers  --  documented and undocumented, citizen and temporary worker
--  carrying the stars and stripes was a way to symbolize an appeal to the
rights and privileges of that flag.

Both of the callers made points that underscore the elusive potency of flags.

"What happens when you leave a country, and you leave it because of various
negative reasons, then your nostalgia for the country becomes cultural," says
Joseph Palacios, an associate professor of sociology at Georgetown University.
"It morphs from the political to the cultural."

A Latin American who waves the flag of his nation of origin is celebrating his
cultural identity, not his political allegiance, Palacios says. That's what has
happened to the Irish flag on St. Patrick's Day and the Italian flag on Columbus
Day. Those banners are folk expressions, as feel-good and non-controversial as
ethnic food and costumes.

But in the midst of a heated national debate over immigration, carrying the flag
of a Hispanic country of origin could be perceived as showing a lack of
sufficient loyalty and gratitude, even if the bearer simply intends to make a
cultural claim.

For the new wave of immigrants, going through the mental effort of selecting a
banner and having reasons for it can be part of the process of acquiring
political self-awareness.

"Each time, they have to think through what they are carrying, what they are
wearing, how they are comporting themselves; each of those is an element of
becoming politically aware and conscious of their role as citizen activists,"
Palacios says. "Whether they are here legally or not, they are functioning as
citizens."

Most of the marchers who carried the flags of Mexico, El Salvador and other
countries yesterday seemed to be under 25. Similarly, many of the protesters in
California who waved the Mexican flag were students. In one case, they
reportedly placed the American flag upside down and subordinate to a Mexican
flag.

Young immigrants in a new land feel a deeper need to make an assertion of
cultural pride, and they enlist the flag in this gesture, said Luis Cardona, a
youth violence prevention coordinator for Montgomery County who took yesterday
off to march with his 8-year-old son, Anthony.

"La cultura cura: culture cures," Cardona said. "Culture provides a protective
factor for these kids. . . . A number of young people mentioned to me this was
an issue of asserting their identity in a multicultural society, embracing
themselves in a positive light."

But sometimes the choice is hard to make. Scores of people on the Mall paired
their American flag with the flag of another country. Or groups of marchers
would be sure to include one flag of national origin among a full complement of
U.S. flags. Or many would wear T-shirts and sweat shirts announcing the land of
their birth while waving the flag of the land of their hopes.

Javier Rocha, 20, a construction worker from Baltimore by way of Mexico, wore a
big American flag as a cape and a Mexican flag as a head wrap. Maria Magdalena
Reyes, 48, a custodian at an animal hospital who was born in Honduras and lives
in Arlington, carried two flags, the baby blue of her old country and the red,
white and blue of her new one.

Are such people indecisive, trafficking in mixed messages? They don't think so.

"The two together are one flag," Reyes explains.

Rocha's friend Juan Moreno, 23, whose cape was a Mexican flag, said the national
flags represent the diversity of the Latino community, while the American flag
shows that many cultures and political histories are uniting under an adopted
standard.

Flags have this power.

"There's a lot of this that's happening in this current political moment, where
instead of saying am I one or the other, am I speaking English or Spanish,
what's happening is I'm doing both," says William Leap, chairman of the
anthropology department at American University. "I am able to be both, my
loyalties can be to both, and it doesn't qualify my commitment to my new nation
or my heritage."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              258 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 3, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Food Stamp Cuts Are Proposed;
House Plan Would Affect 300,000

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1067 words


House Republicans are pushing to cut tens of thousands of legal immigrants off
food stamps, partially reversing President Bush's efforts to win Latino votes by
restoring similar cuts made in the 1990s.

The food stamp measure is just one of several provisions in an expansive
congressional budget-cutting package that critics say unfairly targets the poor
and disadvantaged, especially poor children.

The battle will be joined today when the House Budget Committee is scheduled to
fold eight budget-cutting bills saving $50 billion through 2010 into a single
measure and then send it to the floor for a vote next week. The Senate is also
set to vote on its version of the budget-cutting package, which would not cut
food stamps. The smaller measure, with $39 billion in savings, has broad reach,
affecting Medicare, Medicaid, agriculture programs, private pension plans and
energy.

The Senate action will feature a showdown over a bid to open Alaska's Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, as well as confrontations over limits
to agriculture subsidies, Medicaid payments and Hurricane Katrina relief.

While concerns about runaway spending for the war and disaster relief have
dominated the debate over the budget until now, lawmakers in both chambers have
been quietly drafting changes to major spending and entitlement programs that
would affect millions of Americans, including the fast-growing immigrant
population.

The food stamp cuts in the House measure would knock nearly 300,000 people off
nutritional assistance programs, including 70,000 legal immigrants, according to
the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. Those immigrants would lose their
benefits because the House measure would require legal immigrants to live in the
United States for seven years before becoming eligible to receive food stamps,
rather than the current five years.

About 40,000 children would lose eligibility for free or reduced-price school
lunches, the CBO estimated.

The food stamp cuts, if approved, will especially affect 11 states, including
Maryland, that used the changes in the food stamp law  --  approved with Bush's
support in 2002  --  to expand eligibility and to simplify the application
process. Under the House measure, eligibility for food stamps would be tightened
to exclude some recipients who qualify for nutritional support simply because
they qualify for other anti-poverty programs funded by the federal welfare
program, known as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families.

Richard Larson, policy research director for the Maryland Department of Human
Resources, said the state took advantage of the 2002 changes in the law to
simplify the lives of Maryland's poor and to reduce the onerous paperwork
involved in meeting the different qualifications for various anti-poverty
programs. If a family qualifies for one program, such as Maryland's
family-preservation services, it qualifies for food stamps automatically.

By eliminating such "categorical eligibility," the House measure would
especially hurt those moving off of welfare, who may have incomes that exceed
the basic food stamp threshold but who also have higher expenses, such as for
child care and out-of-pocket health insurance, that come with work, Larson said.

White House officials have refused to disparage the House proposal, but they
have made it clear that the savings from programs under the Agriculture
Department can be achieved without food stamp cuts, as the Senate and the
president have shown.

Such issues have created deep divisions between the conservatives pushing the
cuts and Republican moderates, who fear the measure is going too far. A separate
House measure would scale back federal administrative aid to state child-support
enforcement programs, saving the federal government nearly $5 billion over five
years but potentially cutting child-support collections even more.

Still another House provision would roll back a court-ordered expansion of
foster care support, denying foster care payments to relatives who take in
children removed from their parents' homes by court order. That provision would
reduce the coverage of foster care payments to about 4,000 children a month and
cut $397 million from the program through 2010, the CBO said.

"Why would we want to do anything to discourage a family member from taking in a
child who has been abandoned or neglected by his birth family?" asked Rep.
Heather A. Wilson (R-N.M.), who has told House leaders she cannot support the
legislation.

House GOP leaders say the broad measure would root out government inefficiency
and waste, while confronting the hard choices posed by the stubbornly high
budget deficits and the costs of war and natural disasters. Even $50 billion is
just a 0.6 percent nick out of the $7.8 trillion in federal entitlement spending
expected over the next five years.

"We're cutting, but we're also changing things to try to make them fit today's
needs better," House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) said yesterday.

But some Republicans worry that social service cuts, though relatively small,
might have outsized political ramifications, especially when Republicans move in
the coming weeks to cut taxes for the fifth time in as many years. Those tax
cuts, totaling $70 billion over five years, would more than offset the deficit
reduction that would result from the budget cuts.

"The problem is the interrelationship between cutting taxes, which no matter
what you do will be viewed as cutting taxes for the rich, and reducing programs
for the poor," said moderate Rep. Michael N. Castle (R-Del.). "It's that
simple."

When Bush secured the restoration of food stamps for thousands of legal
immigrants in the huge 2002 farm bill, he pointed to the provision as proof that
the measure was a "compassionate bill."

At $844 million over five years, the House's proposed food stamp cuts would
account for less than half a percent of the total food stamp budget over that
time. But Jennifer Ng'andu, a health and social policy analyst at the National
Council of La Raza, highlighted the symbolism of the provision: It is the only
item in the budget measure targeted at immigrants.

"Going back on this is a reversal of all the achievements Bush has made with
immigrants," she said. "These are lawful residents, good enough to die for our
country in Iraq but not good enough to get food stamps."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              259 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 13, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Must Renew Aid For Some Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Otto, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 617 words


A Montgomery County judge ordered the State of Maryland yesterday to restore
health care assistance to 13 children who are legal immigrants bumped from the
state's Medicaid rolls by budget cuts last year.

In a temporary injunction, Circuit Court Judge Durke G. Thompson found the state
had improperly denied the children coverage under the state health insurance
program for the poor.

Initially, his order will affect only those children named in the suit, who
include a Montgomery girl with West Nile virus and a Prince George's County boy
with a blood disorder. But legal advocates say it could set a precedent for many
others who lost access to state health care when the $7 million cut took effect
in July.

The order was a setback for Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R), who said he imposed
the cut to rein in the state's ballooning Medicaid budget. The ruling affected
about 4,000 immigrants who enjoy legal status but have lived in the United
States fewer than five years.

The cut stirred criticism from Democrats, who said it was taking effect just as
the state had accrued a $1 billion budget surplus. The governor restored $1.5
million to provide prenatal care to women already receiving services.

In his ruling, Thompson found that Maryland had violated the equal protection
clause of the state constitution by singling out legal immigrants.

"Standing in the shoes of the government, the court cannot think of fiscal
interest sufficiently compelling to warrant such a 'suspect' budget cut under
these circumstances," he wrote in 25-page opinion accompanying the order.

He ruled that money for the past and current costs of the children's medical
coverage be reinstated until the final disposition of the case. A full trial on
the matter is expected this year.

That the children will get their health care "is wonderful news for our
clients," said Regan Bailey, a Legal Aid attorney who argued for the plaintiffs
in a hearing in Rockville last month.

Douglas M. Bregman, an attorney for the children, hailed the opinion as "an
affirmation that the Maryland Constitution protects some of the neediest people
in our community."

The governor's office declined to comment on the ruling, and a spokesman said
the case is being reviewed by legal counsel.

In court arguments last month, the state attorney general's office argued that
immigrants were not unfairly singled out because the program providing their
health care is funded entirely by the state. The broader Medicaid program for
all poor people receives federal and state money.

Maryland's divisions over the issue echo the larger debate over the nation's
1996 welfare reform act, which made most legal immigrants ineligible for federal
programs and cash assistance during their first five years in the United States.

In ensuing years, the District and more than 20 states, including Maryland and
Virginia, moved to restore health care to at least some of those immigrants.
Maryland's program remains on the books but without money to run it in this
budget year.

Maryland, like other states, is under pressure to limit spending on Medicaid,
which accounts for about one-fifth of the state's general fund, legislative
analysts said.

In Montgomery, home to about 1,200 of the legal immigrant children affected by
the order, County Executive Douglas M. Duncan praised the ruling.

"Clearly the court understands what Bob Ehrlich does not: People who are working
hard and playing by the rules deserve to get a fair shake," Duncan spokesman
David Weaver said.

"This is a victory for working families."

Duncan is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor.

Staff writer Ann E. Marimow contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post


                              260 of 260 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 17, 2006 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Bitter Pill for Md. Immigrants;
When the State Cut Health Care Coverage for Some Recent Arrivals, They Were Left
to Watch Their Children Suffer as They Searched for Help

BYLINE: Mary Otto, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1093 words


Seldom does a budget cut help cripple a child.

Yet when Maryland cut $7 million last year and eliminated health care coverage
for some recent immigrants, surgery was canceled on Eelaaf Zahid's malformed
hip. Now, as her family looks to the courts and other state programs for help,
an outgrown medical device implanted in her hip three years ago protrudes from
her small body. The Glen Burnie kindergartner walks with a limp.

In Hyattsville, Brayan Herrera, 7, is waiting to see a doctor. His mother,
Martha, worries that the rashes and pain he experiences are signs that his rare
blood disease has returned.

More than 3,000 children lost Medicaid coverage in July, an issue that has
inspired a high-level policy debate among Maryland lawmakers, officials, lawyers
and judges  --  and a desperate struggle among the parents, all of them poor but
legal immigrants, to navigate a complex patchwork of programs in search of care
for their children.

A few families have filed suit, saying Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R)
discriminated when he chose to cut support for legal immigrants who have lived
fewer than five years in the United States. The state's attorneys argue the
federal government has stopped aiding these new arrivals.

Many jurisdictions  --  including the District, Virginia and, until last summer,
Maryland  --  chose to keep them on the Medicaid rolls.

A ruling last week from the Maryland Court of Special Appeals will allow the
children's attorneys to petition on a case-by-case basis to restore health care
coverage while the matter awaits trial.

"I don't think the republic is going to crumble if the kids get medical care,"
Chief Judge Joseph F. Murphy Jr. said in a hearing before the ruling.

Legal Aid attorney Regan Bailey, who is representing 13 immigrant children in
the lawsuit, said she hopes a victory in the case would restore Medicaid
coverage to all children who lost their benefits.

But until then, the families are left with a series of federal, state and local
programs, each with differing eligibility rules and services.

Five-year-old Eelaaf, for instance, was set for surgery July 15 to remove the
clip on her hip. But when she lost her coverage July 1, her parents had to apply
under a state public health program. Seven months and two applications later,
she has received approval for the $20,000 operation.

"We don't want to interrupt care, especially for a little girl like this," said
Jill Bloom, a spokeswoman for Sinai Hospital of Baltimore. She said the hospital
would schedule the surgery soon.

Still, the girl's father, Muhammad Zahid Iqbal, wonders what damage has been
done to her hip in the months that have passed.

"I think it's late," he said one recent day as Eelaaf played with her two little
brothers in the living room of the family's apartment.

Martha Herrera said she was turned away when she took her son Brayan to
Children's Hospital for blood tests in October. "They said the coverage was
canceled," she said in Spanish.

Jackie Bowen, a vice president for Children's, said Herrera must have
misunderstood because the Northwest Washington hospital has committed to provide
charity care. But, Bowen acknowledged, the hospital cannot give the children the
options and the comprehensive care they got under Medicaid, the state's
insurance program for the poor.

The state's decision on recent immigrants is a legacy of the federal Welfare
Reform Act of 1996. With that act, Congress made most legal immigrants
ineligible for federal programs and cash assistance in their first five years in
the United States.

In the years since, more than 20 governments  --  including those of Maryland,
Virginia and the District  --  have used their money to provide health coverage
to these recent immigrants.

Ehrlich's $26 billion budget for the fiscal year that began in July cut $7
million for this class of recent immigrants. The General Assembly called for the
money to be restored, and Ehrlich agreed to continue paying for the pregnant
women in the system.

Advocates for the children point out that the cut was made while the state was
compiling a $1 billion budget surplus.

But state officials say Maryland, like other states, has to confront ballooning
Medicaid costs while balancing the needs of many vulnerable groups.

Maryland "is not out of the woods yet," said state health Secretary S. Anthony
McCann. In the coming year, however, the administration has earmarked $3 million
to help address the loss of medical assistance for recent immigrants through
other programs, McCann said.

"We are trying to fill in all the places where we have those services, but we
are funding them from the public health side rather than the Medicaid side," he
said.

Some of the $3 million is destined for counties, such as Montgomery and Prince
George's, hard hit by the loss of Medicaid for these immigrant children. Some of
it will go to Children's Medical Services, the public health program that
Eelaaf's family has tapped.

McCann has also said the newly arrived immigrants have health care options that
other low-income residents don't.

"The fact is, they have sponsors" who are backing them for citizenship, McCann
said in hearings on the issue in Annapolis. "They have alternatives."

Brayan Herrera's family emigrated from Mexico, and his father works in
construction. They have no insurance through work or their sponsor.

Eelaaf's father, a chemistry professor in Pakistan who is now a gas station
manager, has no sponsor because he and his family moved to the United States
four years ago after winning a green card lottery.

As for his alternatives, he said his job does not provide health care benefits,
and he has not been able to buy insurance for Eelaaf because of her preexisting
condition. Her hips have failed to develop normally since birth, and she has
undergone several operations, including the procedure three years ago when
doctors implanted the temporary clip in her left hip.

After last summer's budget cut, Iqbal applied for another state program but was
initially rejected when paperwork was not filled out properly. He thought of
asking friends to lend him the $20,000 for Eelaaf's surgery  --  nearly an
entire year's salary  --  but wondered how he would pay for the physical therapy
afterward.

He couldn't imagine waiting until this December, when the family reaches its
five-year mark in the country. He was too worried that Eelaaf's condition would
worsen and that she would never walk normally.

"I am in a dilemma from beginning to end," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Washington Post
