
                               1 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Policy Allows Faster Inmate Deportation;
All Jailed Foreigners Face Immigration Check

BYLINE: Raymond McCaffrey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. AA03

LENGTH: 415 words


Anne Arundel County is continuing its crackdown on illegal immigrants with a new
detention center policy that has resulted in about a dozen inmates being
delivered to immigration officials for possible deportation.

Under the system that took effect last month, the Anne Arundel Department of
Detention Facilities alerts U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement immediately
when it processes an inmate from a foreign country, according to the county. The
swift reporting allows immigration officials to identify undocumented
individuals, take the inmates into custody and initiate deportation, the county
said.

Forty-five inmates have been reported to immigration officials since March 6,
compared with three prior to that this year, when the detention center's policy
was to make weekly reports. More than half the inmates reported face
deportation, the county said.

"This administration has taken a strong stance against illegal immigration,"
County Executive John R. Leopold (R) said.

Businesses with county contracts have long been required to comply with federal
law regarding employing illegal immigrants. Last year, Leopold signed an
executive order requiring businesses with county contracts to sign affidavits
attesting that they did not employ illegal immigrants. The order has allowed the
county to more easily cancel contracts with violators, officials said.

As a state delegate, Leopold voted against measures allowing illegal immigrants
to get driver's licenses and pay in-state college tuition.

And as part of his overall effort to reduce expenditures in the county's 2008
fiscal plan, Leopold cut about $115,000 for El Centro de Ayuda and the
Organization for Hispanic and Latin Americans, which provide job referrals,
legal assistance and other services to Hispanic immigrants.

"The overwhelming majority of the public has been supportive," Leopold said.
"And the recent initiative with the jails has initiated a very favorable
response with the public."

Leopold said that the change in policy at the detention center was suggested by
police and corrections officials. As part of the initiative, a county police
officer will be assigned to the Baltimore office of a task force designed to
stem illegal immigration.

Leopold said the county has tried to balance its policies by participating in a
recent job fair to help employers to distinguish between legal and illegal
immigrants. He said he plans to earmark money in next year's budget to an
organization that helps legal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Anne Arundel County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 22, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Tweaks Proposal On Illegal Workers;
Employers Could Get Warnings in June

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 593 words


The Bush administration yesterday renewed its drive to crack down on U.S.
companies that hire illegal immigrants by slightly altering an earlier
initiative stalled by a federal judge since last September.

If the new proposal satisfies the court, the government could begin warning
140,000 employers in writing as early as June about suspect Social Security
numbers used by their employees and force businesses to resolve questions about
their identities or fire them within 90 days.

The result could intensify an economic and political debate over the
administration's immigration policies in the months leading up to November's
elections for president and Congress.

The mailings, known as "no-match" letters, were enjoined by U.S. District Judge
Charles R. Breyer in San Francisco while he hears a lawsuit brought by a
wide-ranging coalition of major American labor, business, farm and civil
liberties groups.

The plaintiffs, including the AFL-CIO, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
American Civil Liberties Union, allege that the plan will cause major workplace
disruptions and discriminate against legal workers, including native-born
Americans.

A systematic effort to wean the U.S. economy off an estimated 8.7 million
illegal workers has long been blocked by economic interests and civil rights
concerns. But the Bush administration considers that effort the linchpin of its
immigration enforcement efforts.

"We are serious about immigration enforcement," Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff said in a brief written statement yesterday. "The No-Match Rule
is an important tool for cracking down on illegal hiring practices while
providing honest employers with the guidance they need."

The 44-page proposal released yesterday makes mostly technical changes to the
administration's initial proposal. It includes a statement about the
regulation's impact on small businesses, as required by a 1980 law. According to
DHS, compliance will cost companies with fewer than 100 workers $3,000 to $7,500
overall, while it will cost larger companies $13,000 to $34,000. But these
estimates do not include the cost of firing and replacing workers who lack legal
documentation.

"DHS does not believe that the direct costs incurred by employers . . . would
create a significant economic impact" on most companies, the department stated.

Opponents said the proposal makes no substantive changes to a plan that Breyer
in October wrote would have "severe" effects and produce irreparable harm to
innocent workers and employers. Lawyers familiar with the plaintiffs' case said
they expect to battle the department in the rulemaking process and the courts
through the summer.

Critics have noted that the Social Security Administration's inspector general
has concluded the database used to cull suspicious numbers contains erroneous
records on 17.8 million people, 70 percent of whom are native-born U.S.
citizens. Even if the actual error rate of no-match letters is far lower, labor
leaders say that unscrupulous employers will use the rule to burden or harass
anyone who looks or sounds foreign.

"It's an attempt to justify the fundamentally flawed database without actually
fixing any of the problems," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the ACLU
immigrants' rights project.

Angelo I. Amador, director of immigration policy at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said the DHS glossed over the true costs. "It keeps the questions
before the judge the same. I would have been more concerned if they had come up
with a big study" detailing the broader impact on businesses, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 609 words

FEDERAL COURT

Man Pleads Guilty to Hiring Illegal Workers

A Manassas man whose concrete company was raided by immigration authorities last
month pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court in Alexandria to hiring
immigrants who were not authorized to live or work in the country.

Felisberto J. Magalhaes, 55, is listed in public records as president of CMC
Concrete Construction on Sudley Road in Manassas. On March 24, agents from U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement raided the business in what is believed to
be one of the largest federal immigration operations in the region in recent
years. The agents took 34 Latin American nationals into custody that morning.

Magalhaes pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor charge of hiring illegal immigrants
between 2006 and March 24. U.S. Magistrate Judge John F. Anderson sentenced him
to one year of probation and ordered him to forfeit $122,000, which court
documents said was traceable to his offense.

-- Tom Jackman

CHESAPEAKE BAY

Regulators Tighten Restrictions on Crabbing

Virginia regulators voted yesterday to end the state's century-old practice of
dredging for blue crabs in the Chesapeake Bay, in the latest move by the state
government to preserve the beleaguered crab population, a spokesman said.

Meeting in Newport News, the Virginia Marine Resources Commission also voted to
end the season for female crabs five weeks early in the fall and end the
practice of allowing recreational crabbers to set out five "pots," or traps.
Residents will still be allowed to set out two pots without a license.

The dredging method, in which watermen use large underwater scoops to dig crabs
out of their winter burrows in the bay mud, had been criticized for catching too
many pregnant females. As crab populations have hovered near historic lows,
Maryland and Virginia have sought to protect more female crabs from harvest,
hoping they will survive to spawn and rebuild the population.

-- David A. Fahrenthold

WAYNESBORO

Suspect in I-64 Shootings Faces More Charges

The 19-year-old suspect in the Interstate 64 shootings last month faces two more
felony charges in Waynesboro.

The new charges against Slade Woodson stem from the same incident March 27 --
shots fired at a house and a credit union building.

Waynesboro police said the new charges were filed after investigators found
another bullet hole in the house.

Woodson requested a public defender at a court hearing Monday.

He is also charged with felony counts in Albemarle County on charges that he
shot at five cars traveling on I-64, slightly injuring two people, and at an
unoccupied Virginia Department of Transportation dump truck.

A 16-year-old is also charged in the case.

-- Associated Press

FAIRFAX COUNTY

Man Who Hit Police Cruiser Is Charged

A man who led Fairfax County police on a chase to the Capital Beltway on Monday
afternoon and injured an officer when he collided with a police cruiser was
charged with six felonies yesterday, police said.

Police said Brian Gomez, 31, of Fort Washington was driving a stolen 2007 Ford
Explorer on Old Keene Mill Road about 3:25 p.m. when an officer tried to pull
him over. Gomez sped away, hit a police car that tried to intercept him on
Franconia Road and then pulled onto the Beltway at Van Dorn Street, where he
encountered heavy traffic, police said.

Gomez bailed out near Telegraph Road and was arrested. The officer was not
seriously hurt.

Gomez was charged with grand larceny, malicious wounding, attempted malicious
wounding, felony eluding police, two felony hit-and-run counts and having no
operator's license.

His passenger, Georgette Hodge, 26, of Oxon Hill, was charged with grand
larceny.

-- Tom Jackman

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Justice Seeks Delay in Court Challenge to Immigration Plan;
Bush Administration Says It Will Modify Crackdown on Employers Who Hire Illegal
Workers

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 389 words


The Bush administration said Friday that it will modify its planned crackdown on
U.S. companies that employ illegal immigrants, asking a federal judge to delay
hearing a lawsuit brought by major American labor, business and farm
organizations until the new strategy is completed.

In papers filed in San Francisco late Friday afternoon, Acting Assistant
Attorney General Jeffrey S. Bucholtz told U.S. District Judge Charles R. Breyer
that the Homeland Security Department is making unspecified changes to its plan
to pressure employers to fire as many as 8.7 million workers with suspect Social
Security numbers.

The Justice Department in court papers asked the judge to delay the case until
March 24, or until a new program is ready.

On Oct. 10, Breyer barred the government from mailing Social Security "no-match"
letters to 140,000 U.S. employers, citing serious legal questions about
requiring companies to resolve questions about their employees' identities, fire
them within 90 days, or else face potential fines and criminal prosecution.

President Bush made the initiative a priority in August after the Senate killed
his proposed overhaul of immigration laws. In issuing a preliminary injunction,
however, the judge cited plaintiffs' arguments that the Social Security
Administration database includes so many errors that using it to enforce
immigration laws would cause "staggering" disruptions at workplaces and
discriminate against tens of thousands of legal workers.

The judge also said that the government failed to weigh the cost of the new
regulation on small businesses as required.

"Certainly DHS believes that the court got it wrong," department spokeswoman
Laura Keehner said. However, in modifying the program, "DHS is planning to
provide an answer to the small number of minor issues that the judge raised in
his opinion," she said.

Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which
joined the suit brought by the AFL-CIO and the American Civil Liberties Union,
along with agriculture, restaurant and construction industry associations, said
businesses are bracing for the new effort. "I hope they give the employer
community adequate time to comment and do not just jam it through during the
holidays, particularly given that this regulation covers all industries, across
all sectors of the economy."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Businesses Will Fight Immigration Legislation;
Va. Coalition Opposes Punishing Employers

BYLINE: Amy Gardner; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 895 words


A broad coalition of Virginia business interests, including some of the most
powerful trade groups in the state, has created an organization to oppose laws
that would punish employers with undocumented workers on their payrolls.

Virginia Employers for Sensible Immigration Policy was formed in anticipation of
another flurry of legislation in the General Assembly seeking to crack down on
undocumented residents and  employers that hire them, business leaders said.
Individual trade groups and companies have spoken out before  about specific
anti-illegal immigration proposals, but the new group  is the business
community's most visible and organized effort to influence the immigration
debate.

"This is a major issue in Virginia, and we wanted to come together as a group
and have a seat at the table," said Julia Ciarlo Hammond,  state director of the
National Federation of Independent Business. She was one of the organizers of
the new group.

The coalition's formation comes at a critical time, just after a bruising state
and local election season during which public anxiety over  illegal immigration
figured prominently in many campaigns. Politicians seeking to get tough on
illegal immigration have been targeting employers with increasing frequency, a
tactic that critics have said allows them to appear responsive without being
vulnerable to accusations of intolerance or meanness toward immigrants.

One proposal that failed last session in Richmond would have revoked the state
business license of any employer found to hire undocumented workers. Another
would have prohibited employers from filing workers' compensation claims for
undocumented employees; the employers would have been required to pay such
claims from their own pockets.  Variations on those bills are certain to
reappear in the  session that begins Jan. 9, advocates said.

Claire Guthrie Gastanaga of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations said
she expects more than 50 pieces of legislation touching on  immigration  in the
session. She said she welcomes  help fighting policies that she believes make
all immigrants, documented or otherwise, feel unwelcome in Virginia.

"This coalition is important," she said. "Frankly, it takes some of the heat off
of me."

The coalition includes some of the most influential industries in the state,
including many  that rely heavily on low-cost and migrant labor. The group
includes home builders, contractors, hog and poultry growers,  retailers,
truckers, the hospitality industry and the state Chamber of Commerce.

"Our coalition at this point wants to be at the table to make sure that business
is able to participate in the discussion," Hammond said. "It's very
straightforward. We are interested in making sure that our employers have a
legal immigrant workforce and that we comply with the rules and regulations that
help us maintain our legal immigrant workforce."

Hammond said the group will focus exclusively on proposals affecting employers,
in part because such laws are expected in the coming session and in part to
maintain a narrow focus for a new and fragile coalition. Some business groups,
including the Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce, have taken  stands on
immigration laws affecting not only employers but also access to public
universities.

"It's time for the business community to come together and voice some sense of
reason and balance in the immigration debate," said William D. Lecos, president
of the Fairfax chamber. "It's clear that at its worst, some of the legislation
is either poorly placed, meaning the state is trying to do what is a federal
responsibility, or it is just so fundamentally unfair and imbalanced that it
threatens to compromise the quality of life and economy of Virginia rather than
improve it."

State Del. Thomas Davis Rust (R-Fairfax), who has supported a variety of
measures  to restrict undocumented residents, said it is entirely legitimate to
impose sanctions on businesses that hire illegal workers. Rust is a businessman
himself, an engineer with his own company in Herndon. He noted that many of the
industries represented in the coalition, particularly construction and
agriculture, are known to rely heavily on undocumented labor.

"It's against the law to hire folks who are not in the country legally," Rust
said. "As an employer of a fairly substantial number of people, I would take
issue with the fact that it's difficult to check."

Business leaders said the reverse. They said the business sanctions cast too
wide a net and place an undue burden on employers to police the immigration
status of their workers. They said the measures also send an unwelcome signal to
legal immigrants, who have provided a crucial labor pool, particularly in
Northern Virginia, as the economy has boomed in recent years.

The business leaders also argued that some of the measures are not proper
because they are preempted by federal law.

Rust did not argue that point, although he  said the federal government has
failed so "miserably" to enforce its immigration laws and police  the nation's
borders that the state has no choice but to step in.

"My constituents are saying, 'If they're not going to do it, you've got to do
something,' " Rust said. The business coalition,  he said, is asking Virginia to
mirror the  approach of the federal government, which is to "shut your eyes and
don't enforce the law."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Changes Planned In Visa Program For Farmworkers

BYLINE: Alejandro Lazo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 487 words


The Bush administration proposed changes yesterday to a little-used agricultural
guest-worker program that would provide incentives for farmers to hire
foreigners legally.

The proposed changes include a system for calculating how foreign workers are
paid and centralizing the application process under the federal government.

Immigration advocates said the changes would weaken rules that protect workers
under the program. The administration defended the proposal as a direct response
to Congress's failure last year to change the nation's immigration laws and as a
way to address a shortage of legal farmworkers.

"It is precisely because Congress failed to pass comprehensive immigration
reform that the president directed executive agencies to take a closer look at
the programs they administer," said Leon R. Sequeira, the assistant secretary of
labor for policy. "Our goal here is to make the program work so that
agricultural employers will use it to hire more workers legally."

The proposed rules do not require congressional action and can take effect after
a 45-day public comment period.

About 75,000 foreign workers participated in the H-2A visa program last year.
Meanwhile, 600,000 to 800,000 undocumented laborers worked on U.S. farms
illegally, the Labor Department estimates.

Perhaps the most significant change to the visa program would be a new method
for figuring wages for foreign farmworkers.

The current rules are intended to ensure that foreign workers are not paid wages
that undercut those paid to U.S. workers. But the wage scales have been
criticized by some who claim that they do not accurately reflect market wages by
occupation, skill level and geographic location. The new system would use data
compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics' occupational employment survey,
which is used to calculate required minimum wages for other visa programs
administered by the department.

The changes would also require employers to file visa applications with the
Labor Department, eliminating the role of state agencies.

The proposed changes would increase the number of days a farmer is required to
spend recruiting U.S. workers for jobs before filling them with foreigners, to
75 days from 45. They also would require contractors that recruit foreign
workers to post bonds with the federal government. And they would prohibit
employers from passing on processing fees to foreign workers and would increase
fines for abusing workers.

Bruce Goldstein, executive director of Farmworker Justice, said the proposed
changes would do away with much of the Labor Department's enforcement of the
current rules. And he said wages were likely to decrease. He said the Labor
Department should do more to enforce rules already on the books.

"Rather than spend its resources to lower wage rates, the Department of Labor
should have announced a campaign to actively enforce workers rights under this
program," Goldstein said.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 16, 2008 Wednesday 1:00 PM EST

At Issue: Immigrant Driver IDs;
Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required Before Licenses Can Be Issued

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2915 words



HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Martin O'Malley rejected a proposal yesterday to issue separate
driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants and legal residents, saying that
Maryland should comply with a federal security law by requiring immigrants to
prove they are here legally before they can drive.


Gov. Martin O'Malley rejected a proposal yesterday to issue separate driver's
licenses to undocumented immigrants and legal residents, saying that Maryland
should comply with a federal security law by requiring immigrants to prove they
are here legally before they can drive.

Washington Post staff writer Lisa Rein was online Wednesday, Jan. 16, at 1 p.m.
ET to discuss the reversal of the long-standing policy that made Maryland one of
only seven states that allow driving privileges for illegal immigrants.

The governor's decision effectively reversed a long-standing policy that made
Maryland one of only seven states that allow driving privileges for illegal
immigrants. It came just days after his transportation secretary had briefed
lawmakers on a proposed two-tier system that would have provided some latitude.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Lisa Rein: Hi everyone!

I'm Lisa Rein, a State House reporter in Annapolis, where the General Assembly
session is in full swing. Things have gotten interesting in the past few days on
the hot issue of illegal immigration and how Maryland plans to comply with Real
ID, the federal mandate that requires states to create secure driver's licenses
similar to identity cards. Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) entered the fray yesterday,
saying he wants to end the state policy of issuing licenses to undocumented
immigrants. This ran counter to a recommendation from the state's transportation
agency, which suggested a two-tier license system, one for legal residents and
the other for those not in the country legally. Please fire away!

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: What part of illegal in "illegal immigrant" do they(lawmakers)
not understand? Finally, repeal this stupid law! Geez!

Lisa Rein: Hi Bethesda,

Many Republicans and conservative Democrats in the legislature agree with you.
However, the policy allowing undocumented immigrants to obtain licenses was a
response to public safety concerns: These residents would drive anyway, but just
not take a driving test or get car insurance. And that's viewed as a potential
safety issue.

_______________________

Rockville: Business traveler: I travel biweekly every month, and with the fed's
new rule, I'm wondering where it would put me as a Maryland resident. Since
Maryland has not yet figured out where they stand on this issue or how they will
adhere to the required federal proposal what will happen to people like me who
travel? Will we be stuck at an airport, not allowed to board a plane? Also I
just renewed my license, will I have to pay for another one or will I be allowed
to wait the appropiate amount of time before I am required to renew my license
again?

Lisa Rein: Hi Rockville, you are not alone in your confusion. Officials in every
state have been struggling with how to implement this Real ID law. Maryland
fully intends to comply, and the Department of Homeland Security just last week
issued a bunch of regulations that gave states more time. Your driver's license
will be legit to get you on planes, into federal buildings and even a nuclear
power plant. Starting in 2011, motorists born after Dec. 1 1964 will have to
submit a digital photo, birth certificate or similar proof of identity. If
you're older 50 you have until 2018 to meet the new requirement.

_______________________

Crofton, Md.: I understand that Governor O'Malley's decision was met with
derision by Casa de Maryland. Perhaps Casa de Maryland needs to realize that it
needs to stop aiding and abetting lawbreakers. If it refuses, then perhaps the
governor should consider discontinuing any state-funded support to that
institution.

Lisa Rein: Hi Crofton. This issue as you know is complicated and inspires
passion on both sides. Maryland is a state with hundreds of thousands of
immigrants, most legal, some illegal. I don't think Casa de Maryland is really
the issue here... The state for years has had a policy that does not require a
legal presence for drivers.

_______________________

Aspen Hill, Md.: This is long overdue. My only question is why this can't be
phased in starting in May. Anyone getting a new license, or renewing after the
statutory start date for Real ID compliance, ought to have to prove that they
are legally here.

Lisa Rein: Hi Aspen Hill,

You're right, May 2008 was the original date for states to comply with Real ID.
But just about every state balked at that timetable because the federal law is
one of these unfunded mandates that is gonna cost tens of millions of dollars to
meet. For example, the state's transportation chief, John Porcari, told a
legislative committee yesterday that customer service is gonna stink for a while
at the motor vehicle offices. That's because motorists will no longer be able to
get their licenses renewed by mail.. They will all have to come into the office
to produce birth certificate, social security cards and other documents that
prove their identity. It's a big bureaucratic mess.. So that's why they aren't
moving to change anything, including the legal presence issue, this year.
However, Jan. 1, 2010 is the deadline for states to require legal presence.

_______________________

Aspen Hill, Md.: Why do reporters and editors for the Post conflate "legal
immigrants" and "illegal aliens" and "undocumented persons" into the single word
"immigrants"? Legal immigrants really resent being lumped in with illegal
aliens.

Lisa Rein: Hi. I don't think we conflate them. Our stories try to make clear
that people who are undocumented differ from those who are in the country
legally. However,the Post does not use the term "alien" to describe those who
are undocumented. Lou Dobbs does, but we try to steer clear of characterizing
people in a way that expresses opinions about their legal status. It's a good
question.

_______________________

Maryland: Newsflash -- even WITH a license many people don't get car insurance.
That's the dumbest reason ever to allow allow someone here illegally to access a
gov't issued ID.

Lisa Rein: Maryland, certainly you're right, but I'm almost sure that Maryland
and other states have laws that require proof of car insurance in order to
register a car, which partially, though not completely, addresses the issue.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I am a fairly liberal Democrat who believes the immigration
laws are often deliberately not enforced. I do not think you can say Republicans
and conservative Democrats are the only ones who support tighter laws. (and
those who do are not racists.) I beg of you to please bring a little more nuance
to this issue.

Lisa Rein: Washington, you are right. Many people--and politicians--are angry
that the federal government has not addressed this issue. The problem of
enforcement is thus left to states and local governments. Then you have local
police departments that are caught in the middle, as they are not trained to be
immigration agents.

_______________________

Social Security Cards, Legal ID: Weren't the DMV requesting those legal ID cards
along with proof of residence all along? I remember getting my license a long
time ago and that was one of the requirements. One of your previous comments
made it seem like they weren't requiring that. Am I missing something?

I also believe that Casa is a big issue for Maryland, but I'm glad the governor
is finally letting go of the supporting attitude he was giving towards that org.

Lisa Rein: Hi...The Motor Vehicle Administration asks for proof of residency
from those born here and those not (a utility bill, stuff like that). For
foreign-born license applicants, they ask for foreign passports, birth
certificates or other documents from their home country.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Is the insurance cost being factored in here? I know rates are
going up because there are more unlicensed, uninsured drivers because people who
have been here (and had licenses) will not be able to renew them. Why does DMV
have to turn into INS?

Why not have a two-tiered system?

Lisa Rein: Hi Baltimore. I'm not sure whether insurance rates go up if claims
from uninsured motorists increase. I assume so but am not positive. Gov.
O'Malley says the reason he does not want to pursue a the two-tier system is
because Maryland would be only one of two states on the Eastern seaboard that do
not require undocumented immigrants to show legal presence. He said he fears
this would draw illegal immigrants to Maryland from other states that have
clamped down.

_______________________

Madison, Wisc.: Thanks so much for sitting in the Hot Seat today! Question: How
do auto insurance companies weigh in on this matter? I see more risk to insured
motorists arising from accidents with people with no driver's licenses. How do
you report an accident to your carrier when you can't even identify who hit you?

Lisa Rein: Hi Madison, someone else just asked this question about insurance and
it's definitely something I need to pursue.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Do licenses for illegal immigrants make it easier for
businesses to hire them (let's remember that "illegal" also applies to the
people who hire them) or does it not matter?

Lisa Rein: Hi DC, that's an interesting question. I think that if someone has a
license and a car, they are valuable to any employer, whether they are here
legally or not, just like I couldn't do my job at the Post without a car and and
a license. I do know that Maryland's current policy of not asking drivers to
prove they are here legally does NOT apply to people seeking a commercial
license, e.g. one to drive a truck.

_______________________

Maryland: Why the age distintion? I'm trying to figure out why my sister and I
will have to comply with real ID in 2011 and my brothers won't have to comply
until 2018. It seems arbitrary. Better to roll it out as licenses come due for
renewal.

Lisa Rein: The Dept of Homeland Security, as I understand it, wanted to give a
break to older drivers who may have trouble locating Social Security cards,
birth certificates and other documents. I think also this was a strategy
designed to help states comply with the new law by essentially phasing it in. I
know, it's pretty complicated and the motor vehicle agency is going to have
quite a time telling drivers who must comply when.

_______________________

Edgewater, Md.: I was rear-ended by a non-English speaking individual with no
license, an out-of-state car of undetermined ownership and where a witness to
the accident claimed he saw the man driving erratically for several blocks
before he hit me. He wasn't arrested and can't be found. I'm out $2,500 (it was
the boat I was towing that he hit). Would my situation have been better had
there been two tiered licenses?

Lisa Rein: Hi Edgewater. I'm sorry, that sounds awful. Well, as the law stands
now, if the person who hit you was a resident of Maryland, he would have been
eligible to get a driver's license and, one would assume,insurance. But as
another person chatting with us mentioned a few minutes ago, there are drivers
out there who don't get any of these things. Virginia and the District do not
follow Maryland's policy and require motorists to prove that they are here
legally.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Hi Lisa --

Maryland already issues licenses to Virginia residents. What is the difference?
Won't an influx of residence increase the tax base? I don't know any "illegal"
who doesn't work, and work hard.

What about ID cards -- will the same rules apply?

Lisa Rein: Hi Baltimore, now I'm confused. Maryland doesn't issue driver's
licenses to Virginia residents that I know of!

_______________________

Undocumented, documented: You stated that "we try to steer clear of
characterizing people in a way that expresses opinions about their legal
status"but isn't it true that the media and The Post has grouped all aliens into
one catagory "illegal" when in essence there are two seperate classifications,
those that are documented(can be tracked since they came here through a visa
system) and those that are undocumented(can't be tracked because they came
through the border or other means without a visa)? Also why is it that every
"illegal" (which really could mean those that are on the verge of being legal)
are always grouped together when it comes to informing the public?

Lisa Rein: I'm sorry if I'm missing your point. But if someone has documentation
to prove that they are in the U.S. legally, like a work visa, green card, etc.,
then we would call them a "legal" immigrant.

_______________________

Public Safety: I fully support the public safety argument made for allowing
illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses. While it may not guarantee that
they actually have insurance, it does give a known address for filing police
reports and when filing a lawsuit. Don't think that just because someone is here
illegally that you can't get a personal injury lawyer and take what little they
have.

Also, and here's my question, wouldn't allowing these people to have licenses
make it that much easier for the feds to find them for deportation or whatever
other action they would take... that is, if the feds ever decided to enforce
immigration laws?

Lisa Rein: Hi Pub Safety,

Under a two-tier system of licenses that Gov. O'Malley's transportation staff
was recommending, there would have been one license issued to people who could
not prove their legal status, and a more secure card for legal residents that
would have complied with the Real Id mandate. Immigrant advocates were concerned
that the "lower tier" license would have been a kind of scarlet letter where
undocumented license-holders could have been targeted for deportation. Right
now, everyone gets the same license, so I don't know that federal immigration
authorities distingish status based on licenses.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I'm just so tired of people referring to undocumented workers
as deliberate lawbreakers. Can't anyone appreciate the fact that most of these
people come from very poor countries where they have little or no opportunities
to make a living or ever provide for their families? Furthermore, they'd love to
come here legally but will never be approved for a visa. Aren't they allowed to
have dreams and aspirations? So, they come here the best way they can and face
grave danger in doing so. The great majority of them live here peacefully and
work very hard. Can't we be concerned about all the other problems facing this
country right now?

Lisa Rein: Washington,

This is a view held by many people, that these are people who take jobs
American-born workers do not want, etc. etc. This issue has really catapulted to
the center of the presidential race, and I think that's partly why Gov. O'Malley
felt he had to address it the way he did.

_______________________

Aspen Hill, Md.: Does it seem likely that if the Maryland Assembly legislated
faster compliance with Real ID, that the Governor would follow suit and
accelerate the process?

Lisa Rein: Republicans in the General Assembly have already put in bills to do
just that, accelerate a legal presence requirement for Maryland. I'm just
guessing here but I believe the Democrats who dominate the legislature and state
government --and O'Malley is a Democrat--want to push this off until next year,
when the presidential race is over.

_______________________

Moving to Maryland: If the state requires proof of legal status, does a driver's
license from another state suffice?

What if said state allows illegal immigrants to gain a license? What
verification would Maryland then do to ensure their legal status?

Lisa Rein: Hi Moving,

A dwindling number of states don't require legal presence, and they are Maine,
New Mexico, Michigan, Hawaii,Oregon and Washington. But Michigan and Oregan are
looking to do what Maryland is proposing. I believe that a license from one of
these states that does not show legal presence would be a problem in Maryland if
and when the requirement takes effect.

_______________________

Virginia and non state residents: So does Maryland allow non-state drivers to
maintain their state license plates? I see that a lot of the Virginia licence
plates, driving away from a place of residence early in the morning on my way to
work.

Lisa Rein: Yikes, I'm not sure but if you are a Virginia resident, you've got to
get a license in Virginia, and vice versa.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: I see that the MVA requires a SSN to renew or get a new license.
Is that not enough to prove legal presence anymore?

Do you think Maryland will implement a "grandfathered" clause like Virginia
whereunexpired licenses that were issued prior to 01/01/04 do not need to prove
legal presence at renewal? I guess the question is geared towards having
enforcement of Real ID for new applicants versus some (like me) who have been
residing in Maryland for the last 20 plus- years.

Lisa Rein: Hi Bethesda, I believe the new rules on what documents to bring to
the motor vehicle office will be very strict for foreign-born and American-born
residents alike.

_______________________

Lisa Rein: Thank you everyone for participating. We will be writing more about
this issue during the General Assembly session, which just started and goes for
90 days.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Arlington Center Offers Hope in Hard Times;
Immigrants Find Support, Counseling to Weather Downturn

BYLINE: Brigid Schulte; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA12

LENGTH: 1375 words


In Prince William County, immigrant communities are unraveling as foreclosures,
a weak economy, a police crackdown and harsh policies to deny services to
illegal immigrants kick in. In Herndon, a day labor center became such a
lightning rod in the national debate about illegal immigrants that residents
elected leaders who shut it down 21 months after it opened.

In Richmond, lawmakers this session pushed 130 bills, most of which failed, that
would make life harder for illegal immigrants. And the record number of
deportations across the United States last year, 282,000, was more than double
the number from 2001.

But things are different in Arlington County.

In Arlington, where officials unanimously approved a resolution last fall
welcoming all immigrants, regardless of their status, a day labor center has
operated without much fanfare for eight years. And now, even in a budget crunch,
officials are asking for mental health counseling for immigrant workers.

And they're getting it.

"Things have gotten really bad for day laborers. Many have lost their houses,
their places of work. Many are exploited and not paid. And they have no way to
make things better," county mental health counselor Fernando PeÃ±aherrera said
in Spanish.

For the past month, PeÃ±aherrera has met every Wednesday with day laborers to
talk about stress, anxiety, depression and substance abuse.

"Alcohol is the easiest answer for many of them," he said. "Wherever you go,
there is a 7-Eleven, and you can buy a six-pack. The situation is serious. Many
are losing hope."

The request for counseling came from Andres Tobar, executive director of the
Shirlington Employment and Education Center, just off Four Mile Run.

"In the last couple years, we've had a more than 50 percent drop in jobs," he
told the County Board at a budget hearing. "Where we might have had 500 jobs a
month, now we're down to 230, maybe 200. We saw able men looking for work and
able to meet their needs. Today, we're finding them scraping and not able to
meet the rent."

Many have become homeless, he said.

One recent, dreary day, men in baseball caps, paint-spattered sweat shirts and
work boots milled about outside the center. Some waited in the covered shelter
outside, where they scanned the streets for any people who might drive by and
ask for workers for the day.

"Work?" the laborers eagerly asked every passerby. "You got work?"

Inside, men sat around talking or surfing the Internet on one of the center's
two computers, looking for news about El Salvador. Others crowded into the
conference room to watch a Spanish movie on television. Many absently fingered
the ID cards the center makes for them for $5, showing their names, date of
birth, address and work expertise.

"We need to keep them from getting bored," Tobar said.

The men have English-language training, job training classes and other programs.
With so little work, the days are long. Tobar called a meeting and asked how the
workers were faring. They agreed to talk about their lives on the condition that
only their first names be used, as many are not in the country legally.

A man named Ramiro, wearing a blue baseball cap emblazoned with a U.S. flag,
handed out his handyman card.

"There's no work," he said in Spanish. The 52-year-old hasn't worked in two
months. He has six children in Bolivia who are all in college. He left home five
years ago to make enough money to get them through school. Now he has nothing to
send.

"I wanted a good life for my children. But now, what can I do?" he asked.

Ramiro is considering returning home, in defeat, if he doesn't get work soon.
But he doesn't know how he'll face his family.

One worker blamed the lack of work on the anti-immigrant mood in the country.
"People are afraid to hire you if you don't have papers," he said.

He was quickly interrupted. "It doesn't matter if you have papers; there isn't
work for anyone," another said.

Another worker, clearly drunk at 9:30 in the morning, was roundly criticized by
the others. "If you get the job, you'll ruin it for the rest of us!" one said.

"Who would want to take a drunk to their house?" another scolded. "You'll do a
bad job and then [employers] won't come back."

Another worker, Balthazar, 60, left to pick up food at the food bank next door.
He explained how he left a municipal government job in Lima, Peru, eight years
ago so his son could attend college in the United States.

For a few years, Balthazar worked six or seven days a week to make that happen.
Now, he said, he will do anything for work: paint, lay bricks, hang drywall,
mow, landscape. Anything. But there isn't any work. And his son has had to
suspend his studies.

"I don't know if he can continue," Balthazar said. It's something he worries
about constantly.

"Some people are depressed," he said. "It depends on the person. I want to keep
fighting. My father was the kind of person who got up at 4 a.m. to work. I
respect that. I work like that."

Tobar said he has become increasingly concerned about the mental state of the
day laborers as work has dried up. When one worker became so depressed recently
that he swallowed rat poison and had to have his stomach pumped and another
remarked that there was no point in trying any longer, Tobar said he had to act.

"You can see it in their faces, the depression," Tobar said. "I don't know what
could occur with desperate people who are starving. But I do know that desperate
people often take desperate measures."

This year, Tobar called the county's Department of Human Services and received
help for mental health counseling. He was testifying recently in the hopes of
keeping that counseling, as County Board members consider a proposal to cut as
much as $1 million in services, including substance abuse and mental health
counseling, in Arlington's annual $925 million budget. Tobar worries that, with
positions being cut, the counselors will be stretched and will have less time to
come to the center to work with the laborers. The board is scheduled to vote on
the final budget on Saturday.

County Board Chairman J. Walter Tejada (D) was an early supporter of the day
labor center, for pragmatic and philosophical reasons.

"We have a history in Arlington of being a caring, inclusive community that
values diversity. And we support people who are here trying to improve the
quality of their lives in our region through hard work," Tejada said. "There are
people looking for work and employers looking for workers. And if that activity
takes place -- and it will take place -- the government needs to coordinate it
so that it happens in some kind of orderly manner, that the needs and demands of
work are met.

"We realize that this is a divisive issue in some places," he said, "but it does
not need to be."

Although times are tight, Tejada said, the mental health of day laborers must be
addressed to provide help to those who need it and to protect the community at
large.

"Having a substance abuse counselor there is a proactive way of addressing the
needs of the population. That's part of what a community needs to do. We need to
take care of our neediest residents," Tejada said. "And ultimately, when people
are able to find work, we all benefit."

Back at the center, officer manager David Benavides, a former Marine who served
in Iraq, spent the morning calling employers who hadn't paid workers to get them
to pay up.

The workers are friendly with one another, using nicknames such as Potato Face,
Dracula, Gloves or Perro de Lengua, "Loose Tongue," because he gossips so much.

Benavides said that as times have gotten rough, he's seen tough workers curled
up in a corner crying. Some people borrowed thousands of dollars to pay
smugglers to get them into the country. And now that they can't pay their loans,
the smugglers are harassing their families. "That's really tough for them," he
said.

A worker who had lost his apartment and could no longer share custody of his
children was ecstatic when he got a temporary job, Benavides said. He was
showing off, inviting his friends for drinks.

But he drank so much that he passed out. And his friends stole his money. Now
he's homeless.

"That's why we need a substance abuse counselor," Benavides said. "Going through
these times is very tough. But alcohol only makes it worse."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Alexandria-Arlington

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; "You can see it in their faces, the depression," said Andres
Tobar, executive director of the Shirlington Employment and Education Center.
IMAGE; Photos By Leah L. Jones For The Washington Post; Melvin Cabrera, above,
stands with day laborers seeking work. Below, 4-month-old Kimberly Lopez visits
the Shirlington Employment and Education Center, which helps immigrants and day
laborers.
IMAGE; David Benavides, a former Marine who served in Iraq and is now the
center's officer manager, said that as times have gotten rough for immigrants,
he has seen tough workers curled up in a corner crying.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

N.Y. Will Offer Secure Driver's Licenses to Citizens;
Illegal Immigrants Will Be Allowed to Get a Version, a Move Homeland Security
Secretary Criticizes

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 513 words


The Bush administration and New York announced an agreement yesterday to create
a generation of super-secure driver's licenses for U.S. citizens, but also to
allow illegal immigrants to get a version.

New York is the largest state to sign on so far to the government's post-Sept.
11 effort to make identification cards more secure. The agreement with the
Department of Homeland Security will create a three-tiered license system.

Under the compromise, New York will produce an "enhanced driver's license" that
will be as secure as a passport. It is intended for people who will soon need to
meet such ID requirements, even for a short drive to Canada.

A second version of the license will meet the new federal standards of the Real
ID Act. That law was designed to make it much harder for illegal immigrants or
would-be terrorists to obtain licenses.

A third type of license will be available to undocumented immigrants. New York
Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer (D) has said that this ID will make the state more secure
by bringing those people "out of the shadows" and into American society, and
will lower auto insurance rates.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said he is not happy that New York
intends to issue IDs to illegal immigrants. But he said there is nothing he can
do to stop it.

"I don't endorse giving licenses to people who are not here legally, but federal
law does allow states to make that choice," Chertoff said.

Arizona, Vermont and Washington state previously agreed to the federally
approved secure licenses. The issue is pressing for border states, where new and
tighter rules are soon to go into effect for crossings.

GOP Rep. Thomas M. Reynolds, who represents the Buffalo suburbs, said he fears
that Spitzer "is taking this state down a risky path" by giving any kind of
license to illegal immigrants.

Officials would not say whether the undocumented-immigrant license could be used
by local law enforcement as probable cause to detain someone suspected of being
in the United States illegally.

New York has as many as 1 million undocumented immigrants, many of whom are
driving without a license and car insurance or with fake driver's licenses,
Spitzer said in September.

Chertoff, meanwhile, lashed into his own employees for staging a phony news
conference at the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

The agency arranged to have FEMA employees play the part of reporters Tuesday
and question Vice Adm. Harvey E. Johnson Jr., the deputy director, about
assistance to victims of wildfires in Southern California.

"I think it was one of the dumbest and most inappropriate things I've seen since
I've been in government," Chertoff said. "I have made unambiguously clear, in
Anglo-Saxon prose, that it is not to ever happen again and there will be
appropriate disciplinary action taken against those people who exhibited what I
regard as extraordinarily poor judgment."

Asked specifically if he planned to fire anyone at FEMA, which is part of his
department, Chertoff declined to say, citing personnel rules.

"There will be appropriate discipline," he told reporters.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 447 words

Spitzer to Drop Plan For Driver's Licenses

 New York Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer (D) has decided to abandon a plan to issue
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, officials familiar with the decision
said last night.

The governor is due to meet this morning with New York's congressional
delegation, many of whom openly oppose the program. Debate on the issue has also
spilled into the presidential campaign of Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.).

The governor's office signaled to lawmakers yesterday that Spitzer will declare
at the meeting that he is shelving the plan and that immigration is a federal
issue for Washington to handle, according to congressional aides who spoke on
the condition of anonymity because no formal announcement had been made.

Last month, Spitzer sought to salvage the license effort by striking a deal with
the Department of Homeland Security to create three distinct types of state
driver's licenses: one "enhanced" that will be as secure as a passport; a
second-tier license good for boarding airplanes; and a third marked not valid
for federal purposes that would be available to illegal immigrants and others.

A Spitzer spokeswoman did not immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.

 Governor of Georgia Leads Prayer for Rain

 ATLANTA -- Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue (R) led a solemn crowd of several hundred
people in a prayer for rain on his drought-stricken state.

"We've come together here simply for one reason and one reason only: to very
reverently and respectfully pray up a storm," Perdue said after a choir sang a
hymn.

Georgia and its neighboring states are caught in a drought that threatens public
water supplies. Perdue has ordered water restrictions, launched a legal battle
against the release of water from federal reservoirs and appealed to President
Bush.

"It's time to appeal to Him who can and will make a difference," Perdue told the
crowd.

"God, we need You," Perdue said. "We need rain."

Fishing Suspended Over Oil Spill

SAN FRANCISCO -- California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) suspended all fishing
in areas affected by last week's oil spill in San Francisco Bay, the area's
worst in nearly two decades. The commercial season for Dungeness crab had been
scheduled to start Thursday.

4 Get AIDS Virus in Transplants

CHICAGO -- An organ donor infected four transplant patients with the AIDS virus
in what a donor group says is the first such transmission in the United States
in at least 13 years. The transplants occurred in January at three Chicago
hospitals. The patients infected with HIV and the virus for Hepatitis C did not
learn about their status until the past two weeks, according to medical
officials.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

N.Y. Drops Plan to Issue Driver's Licenses to Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 428 words


New York Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer (D) yesterday abandoned his plan to issue
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, saying the federal government's failure
to solve the nation's immigration troubles and a poisonous political climate
mean that his state "cannot successfully address this problem on its own."

Spitzer told reporters after meeting with members of New York's congressional
delegation that although states and cities must deal with the consequences of
Washington's failure, pushing forward unilaterally would be counterproductive to
his broader agenda in Albany. Spitzer's abrupt withdrawal of a plan rolled out
Sept. 21 to bring an estimated 1 million illegal immigrants "out of the shadows"
and into compliance with state licensing requirements marked an attempt to cut
the losses sustained by him and his party over the past few weeks. Several polls
showed that about 70 percent of New Yorkers opposed the plan.

In Washington yesterday, Spitzer redirected blame toward a federal government
that "has lost control of its borders," allowed millions of illegal immigrants
into the country, "and now has no solution to deal with it."

While he said he continues to believe that the licensing plan was a practical
way to increase security and make roads safer, "fear-mongering" forces who
equate immigrant dishwashers with Osama bin Laden and a driver's license with "a
passport to terror and a license to kill" were too strong. Spitzer called
instead for "a comprehensive solution," saying piecemeal reforms are
"unacceptable."

"Tomorrow, undocumented workers will not stop driving. The federal government is
not going to deport 1 million undocumented workers from New York by the end of
this year any more than it did last year or the year before," Spitzer said. "So
my challenge to the federal government is this: Fix it. Fix the problem so the
states won't face the local impact."

A spokesman for Spitzer said New York would continue a deal struck with the
Department of Homeland Security last month to create two other types of driver's
licenses.

The governor plans to move forward with an "enhanced" card that would be as
secure as a passport and that could be used to cross the border with Canada
under requirements of the federal government's Western Hemisphere Travel
Initiative. The pact also calls for New York to adopt stricter security
requirements for all driver's licenses used for federal purposes, such as
boarding airplanes, but only after federal "Real ID" regulations are issued and
New York's legislature and others are heard from, the spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Posturing and Driver's Licenses;
Illegal immigrants already drive. The real question is whether to promote
safety.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 719 words


LISTEN TO the fumblings and bumblings of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, two
otherwise canny and articulate senators, and you can hear a pair of candidates
who probably know that granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants is smart
public policy but maybe not such smart politics. Both Mr. Obama, who supports
the idea, and Ms. Clinton, who now says she does not, have come in for derision
by seeming to straddle an issue that is becoming a surrogate for the broader,
unresolved problem of illegal immigration.

Eight states already grant licenses to undocumented residents, from Washington
and Utah in the West to Maine and Maryland in the East. All adopted the stance
for clear and convincing reasons of public safety and in many cases at least
partly at the behest of law enforcement officials. None has come to tragedy
because of it.

At least 12 million illegal immigrants live in America, and many of them,
probably millions, are already driving regularly or periodically. They drive to
jobs, to schools, to hospitals, to shopping malls and to grocery stores. By
making licenses available to them, states are not enabling them to drive more;
they are encouraging them to get the insurance and training that will allow them
to drive safely. Deny them licenses, and be prepared to pay the consequences.

A report prepared for the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety gives a sobering
assessment of those consequences. The report, based on data collected in the
1990s, says that unlicensed drivers are almost five times more likely to be
involved in a fatal crash than drivers with valid licenses and that 20 percent
of all fatal accidents involve at least one driver without a valid license. Such
drivers are also more likely to operate vehicles under the influence of alcohol.

While the Democratic front-runners have equivocated, New Mexico Gov. Bill
Richardson, who signed legislation allowing illegal immigrants to be licensed
four years ago, was lucid about his reasons. Speaking at the Democratic forum
held Thursday in Las Vegas, Mr. Richardson, who may feel that he has less to
lose by his honesty than the equivocating Democratic front-runners, put the
matter succinctly: "When we started with this program, 33 percent of all New
Mexicans were uninsured. Today it's 11 percent. Traffic fatalities have gone
down. It's a matter of public safety."

That was also the logic that led Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York to announce in
September that driver's licenses would be issued without regard to immigration
status. He withdrew the plan last week  following a firestorm of political
protest, not least from the state's Democratic congressional delegation. It was
notable that many of those who urged the governor to reverse course did so not
because they thought the policy was foolish but because they worried about an
electoral backlash.

Polls show that a majority of Americans believe issuing driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants is a bad idea. Many fear that it will tempt more immigrants
to enter this country illegally. That's hokum; people who sneak into the country
or overstay their visas do so for jobs, not licenses.

A more serious concern is that granting licenses to illegal immigrants may give
would-be terrorists a tool  they would otherwise lack and that the licenses
could be used to gain access to commercial flights. That could be addressed by
making driver's licenses valid only for driving, not as all-purpose identity
documents, and by creating for other purposes a separate national ID card, with
stringent biometric and other safeguards -- much as European and other countries
already have. Doing so would mean rethinking the federal Real ID Act, which
requires states to adopt heavily vetted driver's licenses that would serve as
all-purpose IDs. But with many states already balking at Real ID's onerous
provisions, a rethink is in order anyway.

Rhetoric and reality already diverge on many aspects of the debate over illegal
immigrants. Now driver's licenses are providing easy fodder for elected
officials to prove their toughness and intolerance on the issue. By doing so,
they ignore the everyday reality of safety on the nation's roadways. Illegal
immigrants will continue to drive regardless of posturing by politicians. The
important question is whether they will do so safely.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Illegal Immigration's Cost Is Hard to Count;
Fairfax Cites Services That Are Required

BYLINE: Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 807 words


The cost of delivering government services to illegal immigrants in Fairfax
County is all but impossible to determine, County Executive Anthony H. Griffin
said in a report made public yesterday.

That's because no one knows how many undocumented immigrants live in the county
and because many of the services -- such as libraries, parks, public transit and
roads -- are provided to everyone and not designed for a specific subset of the
population.

The only direct cost the county said it was able to determine was in the
sheriff's office, which will spend about $3.8 million this fiscal year housing
undocumented immigrants in the county jail.

The report is the third produced this year in Northern Virginia after elected
officials, under pressure from residents, asked their staffs to study the impact
of illegal immigration on government services. It is also the third in which
officials reported that quantifying the local costs of illegal immigration is
difficult, at best, and that federal law requires them to provide an array of
basic services, for the protection of life or safety, to all residents,
regardless of status.

This year, Prince William County Executive Craig S. Gerhart told lawmakers that
he could not give them "an accurate or dependable answer . . . regarding the
total cost to serve the illegal population." Loudoun County administrators
delivered essentially the same message to their Board of Supervisors in
September.

The Prince William and Loudoun supervisors, however, have passed resolutions to
deny what services they can to some illegal immigrants, such as those who are
homeless, elderly or addicted to drugs.

Griffin's report was delivered in response to an inquiry from Supervisor Michael
R. Frey (R-Sully), who said he was getting numerous questions from constituents
about services provided to undocumented immigrants and their cost. "Quite
frankly," Frey wrote in a letter, "I am also getting many constituents demanding
that the Fairfax Board of Supervisors adopt a Prince William County type
resolution."

The Fairfax board, led by Chairman Gerald E. Connolly (D), has resisted calls
from Prince William and Loudoun officials to pass a similar measure. Connolly
has said that immigration remains a federal responsibility and that he wants the
county to focus on illegal behavior, not immigration status.

Griffin's report conforms closely to the terms set by the chairman. Griffin said
that where federal law requires the county to determine immigration status, it
will continue to do so. Otherwise, it will not. "The county is not responsible
for nor presently staffed to enforce federal laws as they relate to immigration
violations," he wrote.

One central issue, Griffin said, is that there is no reliable method for
counting the number of illegal immigrants. The available national estimates
don't differentiate immigrants in various categories, such as those with
"temporary protected status," who are legal and eligible for services.

The report broke the issue into three parts. The first category focuses on
programs that federal law prohibits the county from offering to illegal
immigrants. These include food stamps, Medicaid and public housing. The second
lists services related to protection of life and safety. Officials involved in
those areas -- including police, fire and rescue, health services, child
protective services, and juvenile and domestic relations court officials -- do
not investigate immigration status.

The report also lists a category of what it calls "universal access" services
that enhance the overall quality of community life, such as libraries and parks.
These are available to all residents.

Griffin did not address the cost of educating illegal immigrant children in the
county's schools, citing a 1982 Supreme Court ruling that upholds their right to
enroll.

Connolly said yesterday that the report should refute the notion that the county
is, of its own volition, spending countless millions of dollars on the needs of
undocumented  immigrants.

"The county's position is to deny services when we are required to do so. And
that's a fairly lengthy list," he said.

Asked about the cost of illegal immigrants using county services and facilities
available to everyone, Connolly said that was not the core of the issue. "Our
libraries are not being rushed by undocumented aliens looking for bestsellers."
He added that illegal immigrants "are not frequent consumers of county services,
for a lot of different reasons." The main one is fear of detection, he said.

Frey said he was reasonably satisfied with the report. "Obviously, the big costs
are education and health care. You don't need a detailed study to figure that
out," he said.

"But there's nothing we can do about that, and that's important for people to
understand. Until the feds do something, we have no choice," Frey said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Anthony H. Griffin cited services that can't legally be
withheld.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 1 Edition

State Officials Propose 2 Types of Driver's Licenses;
Plan Would Distinguish Illegal, Legal Residents

BYLINE: Lisa Rein; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 957 words


The administration of Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) is drawing up plans to issue
separate driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants and legal residents to
comply with new federal security regulations, a proposal that could become a
focus in the debate over illegal immigration in Maryland.

Top state officials began briefing lawmakers last week on a two-tiered licensing
system similar to one that New York Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer (D) proposed last fall
but was forced to scuttle after a political battle. New York does not allow
illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses, and Spitzer wanted to change that.

Maryland is designing a plan for thousands of immigrants who have been receiving
the same licenses as other drivers without having to prove that they are legally
in the United States. Maryland is among eight states that allow illegal
immigrants to get licenses.

Under a two-tier system, undocumented immigrants would have access to the
license they can get now, which requires proof that they live in Maryland. But
it could not be used to board airplanes, enter federal buildings or cross
borders. A separate license would be issued to those who can show they are in
the country legally. That would put the state into compliance with the federal
Real ID security mandate, which is aimed at screening out potential terrorists
and uncovering illegal immigrants.

Maryland officials say a two-tier system would address federal security concerns
and help ensure highway safety, because undocumented motorists would have to get
car insurance and pass a driving test.

"We ensure that Maryland motorists are licensed, and that enhances public
safety," said Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown (D). "At the same time, Marylanders who
have the highest form of identification can board airplanes and enter government
buildings."

State Transportation Secretary John D. Porcari said the timing of Maryland's
adoption of a new licensing system would depend on federal regulations issued
Friday for implementing the Real ID program. Most states, including Maryland,
have received extensions on a May deadline to have a plan in place.

Six states have refused to comply with Real ID, and legislatures in more than a
dozen others have passed resolutions opposing it. Maryland officials said they
have struggled to meet the mandate and balance the politics of immigration.

"We have a federal requirement," said Porcari, who recently briefed officials
with the Department of Homeland Security on the licensing plan. "We know we have
to comply with it. We intend to."

Porcari said some legal U.S. residents might opt not to get the license that
would allow entry into federal buildings, as they might not be able to find
original birth certificates or other documents to prove they are legal
residents.

The plan has drawn criticism from immigrant advocates and opponents of illegal
immigration.

"In this climate, that's a scarlet letter," Del. Ana Sol GutiÃ©rrez
(D-Montgomery) said of a two-license system. She said she thinks it would tag
its holders as illegal immigrants and make them vulnerable. "Any policeman could
call [federal] authorities," she said. GutiÃ©rrez is one of the legislature's
leading advocates for immigrants.

GutiÃ©rrez and Casa de Maryland, which helps immigrants find jobs and housing,
are pushing a different system that would keep the current license but offer
legal residents a federally valid identification card similar to a passport.

"We think the best system is to retain the license," said Kim Propeack, Casa's
advocacy director. "We believe the vast majority of people will want to keep the
system the way it is." She said many Maryland residents, such as older drivers
and ex-felons, regardless of their immigration status, would be unable to comply
with federal requirements or have little need to enter federal buildings.

Opponents of illegal immigration have fought unsuccessfully for Maryland to
adopt a federally recognized driver's license since the Real ID law was passed
in 2005. Last week, some said the O'Malley administration would do little more
than elevate the status of undocumented immigrants by awarding them a special
license.

"They're following the letter of the law, but they're ignoring the intent," said
Senate Minority Leader David R. Brinkley (R-Frederick). "The state is endorsing
people to skirt the law. . . . Then Maryland becomes a haven for people that are
here illegally."

Civil rights organizations and privacy advocates say that they are concerned
that a standardized driver's license would amount to a national identification
card and that a database with holders' information would be vulnerable to
identify theft.

John T. Kuo, head of the state Motor Vehicle Administration, said his agency
does not keep statistics on how many of Maryland's 3.9 million licensed drivers
are not in the United States legally because state law does not require it to
document immigration status.

"Our staff does not ask if someone is here legally, because that would be
discriminatory," he said. However, as other states, including Virginia, have
tightened the documentation required for a driver's license, Maryland has had a
"surge in demand" for licenses from foreign-born residents, Kuo said.

About 2,000 foreign-born residents make appointments each week to present
documents including foreign passports and marriage or divorce papers to get
their driver's licenses. About 500,000 Maryland residents who do not drive have
state identification cards.

Hawaii, Maine, Michigan, Oregon, Utah, New Mexico and Washington state do not
require legal presence in the country to get a driver's license, although Oregon
and Michigan are moving to require it.

Porcari said Maryland is the first state to propose a comprehensive two-tier
system.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· A Jan. 13 Metro article about Maryland's plan to comply with the
federal Real ID act by creating a two-tier driver's license system did not make
it clear that Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) has not yet signed off on the plan.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrant Driver ID Rejected by O'Malley;
2 Types Were Proposed For Legal, Illegal Status

BYLINE: Lisa Rein; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 819 words


Gov. Martin O'Malley rejected a proposal yesterday to issue separate driver's
licenses to undocumented immigrants and legal residents, saying that Maryland
should comply with a federal security law by requiring immigrants to prove they
are here legally before they can drive.

The governor's decision effectively reversed a long-standing policy that made
Maryland one of only seven states that allow driving privileges for illegal
immigrants. It came just days after his transportation secretary had briefed
lawmakers on a proposed two-tier system that would have provided some latitude.

Instead, O'Malley (D) directed his top transportation officials to comply with
the federal Real ID law by devising a secure, federally recognizable license
that would be accepted as identification to board planes or enter government
buildings.

"We should not allow Maryland to become an island virtually alone on the East
Coast" by not requiring proof of legal residence for licenses, O'Malley said
last night.

If approved by the General Assembly, O'Malley's plan would take effect in 2010.
Maryland would join Virginia and the District in requiring a "lawful presence"
of drivers.

Stunned immigration advocates accused O'Malley of pandering in a national
election year.

"The administration is prioritizing political pandering over good policymaking,"
said Kim Propeack, advocacy director for Silver Spring-based Casa of Maryland,
which helps immigrants find jobs and housing. The governor "is ignoring all the
support he's heard over the years for the system as it exists," she said.

Del. Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George's), whose district includes many
immigrants, said the policy change would upend life for thousands of Maryland
residents. Calling O'Malley's proposal a "setback," Ramirez questioned how the
parents of children born in this country could be denied permission to drive
their children.

The debate in Maryland reflects rising national controversy over the issue. In
New York, for example, Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer (D) proposed three license tiers in
the fall but abandoned the system after a bruising political battle.

Six states have refused to comply with Real ID, and legislative bodies in some
other jurisdictions that require "legal presence," including the District, have
passed resolutions opposing it because of cost and privacy concerns. O'Malley
said his administration has been wrestling the issue since "Day One" of his term
and concluded that Maryland would have to comply with the federal mandate.

O'Malley's announcement yesterday represents a change in direction from months
of planning by the Motor Vehicle Administration, which as recently as Friday had
proposed creating two license tiers, one for people who can produce documents to
prove their legal presence in the United States and one for those who cannot.

Some transportation officials said a two-tiered system also would comply with
Real ID, addressing federal security concerns while encouraging undocumented
immigrants to obtain car insurance and pass a driving test. But after
Transportation Secretary John D. Porcari and John T. Kuo, the motor vehicle
administrator, briefed lawmakers extensively last week on the two-tier proposal,
the O'Malley administration quickly distanced itself from it.

The governor accused the Bush administration yesterday of failing to secure the
country's borders and trying to "bootstrap" a national ID system onto state
driver's licenses. But he said he is not willing to risk having Maryland become
a haven for undocumented immigrants from other parts of the eastern seaboard.

"We'd become an attraction to people who feel they can easily obtain a license
through fraudulent means because they have one less thing to prove," he said. He
said that there are public safety concerns about immigrants who would drive
without insurance or a license but that he and other governors have been backed
into a corner by federal policy.

Porcari had briefed the governor and officials with the Department of Homeland
Security on a two-tier plan. But yesterday, Porcari told a Senate committee that
the "national landscape" is changing, with Oregon and Michigan announcing plans
to impose a legal presence mandate.

"That was premature," Kuo said yesterday of the two-tier proposal.

Lawmakers appear divided on the issue, with some who represent districts with
large immigrant populations defending the current policy and Republicans and
more conservative Democrats less tolerant of illegal residents.

Yesterday's announcement satisfied Republican lawmakers, who have pushed in vain
to pass tougher immigration measures in recent years, even when Republican
Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. was governor.

"When you've got a New York governor getting clubbed over the head for trying to
institute what Maryland has . . . you realize we are out of sync with the rest
of the nation," House Minority Leader Anthony J. O'Donnell (R-Calvert) said.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Rob Carr -- Associated Press; Gov. Martin O'Malley (D)
directed transportation officials to comply with the federal Real ID law.
IMAGE; By Alfredo Duarte Pereira -- El Tiempo Latino; Del. Victor R. Ramirez
(D-Prince George's), whose district includes many immigrants, called the move a
"setback."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Virginia Tightens Bills on Residency;
Legislature Debates Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1296 words


RICHMOND -- Many candidates for the Virginia General Assembly campaigned last
year on a pledge to curb the state's illegal immigrant population. But two weeks
into the legislative session, many of the more than 100 immigration-related
bills that have been introduced go even further and could penalize those living
in the country legally.

One bill would require that driver's license exams be conducted in English.
Another would force people applying for a driver's license to show proof of U.S.
citizenship. And several bills would declare English as Virginia's official
language.

"Virginia's legislators claim that they only want to crack down on undocumented
immigrants and that they welcome those immigrants who 'play by the rules.'
That's what they say," said Tim Freilich, legal director for the Virginia
Justice Center for Farm and Immigrant Workers. "Then they turn around and
introduce these bills that directly attack Virginia's lawfully present
immigrants."

But Del. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas), who has introduced several of the
bills, including one that calls for defendants to pay for language interpreters
in court if convicted, said that legal immigrants are not being targeted.

"They're welcome. That is not what the issue is about," he said. "The issue is
about the rule of law and fairness."

The number of immigration bills in the 60-day legislative session is the highest
in recent years and, some lawmakers say, is more than the total addressing any
other topic, including the abusive-driving fees and mental health reform.

House members have introduced more than 100 immigration bills; senators had
filed about 25 as of Friday, the deadline for legislators to file bills for the
season.

Republicans across the state, and some Democrats in conservative districts,
seized on illegal immigration last year before the November election, announcing
proposals to curb illegal immigration. Much of the debate was in Northern
Virginia, including Prince William County, where officials are planning to
curtail government services to illegal immigrants and increase enforcement.

"It's ground zero," said freshman Del. Paul F. Nichols (D-Prince William), who
has introduced several immigration bills. "It was a hotbed issue. I got elected
on a promise that I would dissuade illegal immigrants from coming into Prince
William County. Illegal is illegal. If you're going to have laws, which we do,
and you're not going to have enforcement of them, then you've got a failure."

But some House members say they know their efforts will be thwarted by the newly
Democrat-controlled Senate and Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), who has said that
immigration policy should be left largely to the federal government.

Senate Democrats list immigration as one of their six priorities for the
legislative session, but Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) said
bills that are punitive will face a tough road in the Senate.

Last year, lawmakers proposed more than 50 bills dealing with immigration. Only
seven were sent to Kaine for his signature. Many of the bills died in the Senate
after being passed by the House, which was controlled by moderate Republicans
who often collaborated with Democrats.

Because of the volume of immigration bills filed this year, each chamber is
sending them to one committee to be examined for duplication. In the House,
Speaker William J. Howell (R-Stafford) created a subcommittee consisting of four
Republicans and a Democrat. In the Senate, most of the bills are being sent to
the Courts of Justice Committee.

Claire Guthrie Gastanaga, who represents several immigrant groups, including the
Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations, said the number of bills filed this
year is surprising because many candidates who campaigned the loudest for
sanctions against illegal immigrants did not win in November.

"If you look at the results of the election, it's hard to see the genesis of
this attention," Gastanaga said. "For the majority of the electorate, this was
not the most important issue, and yet it is going to take up more time in the
session."

Only a handful of proposals offer immigrants help, including creating an office
of immigration assistance, protecting immigrant crime victims and increasing the
schools' funding formula based on the immigrant population.

House leaders say they will consider all bills but remain focused on the five
priorities they outlined before the election: prohibiting illegal immigrants
from attending public colleges, requiring sheriffs to check immigration status,
suspending business licenses of companies that hire illegal immigrants, denying
bail to illegal immigrants and ensuring that one person at every jail has
federal authority to begin deportation proceedings.

But Del. Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince William) said he hopes that House leaders
will also consider other proposals.

"There are a lot of concerns we have to address," he said. "Nobody has a
monopoly on these bills. There are multiple approaches. We're trying to use our
imaginations."

Other bills that have been introduced call for home buyers to prove they are in
the country legally to qualify for a mortgage, for police officers to have the
authority to begin deportation proceedings, for students to show a valid birth
certificate before entering public K-12 schools or college and to create a state
agency to deal with illegal immigration. At least two bills would allow
employers to fire workers for misconduct if they speak a language other than
English at work.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of Supervisors, said he
asked legislators to introduce proposals that would build more detention space
and clarify a locality's authority to enforce immigration policies, among other
issues.

"What we are concerned about most is public safety, not about lifestyle and
cultural differences," said Stewart (R-At Large). "We need to focus the ball on
removing illegal immigrants."

Of the 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be in the United States,
250,000 to 300,000 live in Virginia, according to the Pew Hispanic Center in
Washington. An additional 440,000 people in Virginia are not U.S. citizens but
are in the state legally, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.

Sen. George L. Barker (D-Fairfax) said that some bills, including his, target
not immigrants directly but the problems that can stem from an escalating
immigrant population. He and other lawmakers have introduced bills to help
localities combat single-family homes being used as boardinghouses.

"I'm not going to do anything that is going to have a negative effect on those
people who are legal," he said.

In the past three years, as the federal government repeatedly failed to pass
legislation regarding the nation's illegal immigrants, many states considered
immigration bills that address employment, identification, law enforcement and
public benefits.

Last year, more than 1,500 immigration bills were introduced in legislatures --
three times as many as in 2006. Only 244 were enacted.

Ann Morse, program director for the Immigrant Policy Project at the National
Conference of State Legislatures in Washington, said states are limited in what
they can do to curb illegal immigration.

Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), who leads the House Courts of Justice Committee
and reviews immigration bills, said some bills will be impossible to implement
because of legal or financial restrictions and lack of consensus among
lawmakers. He said he has narrowed the list of proposals that he expects will
pass this session.

But Angela M. Kelley, director of the Immigration Policy Center at the American
Immigration Law Foundation in Washington, said: "It's just fantasy to think [any
of these new laws] are going to drive people out. They will just go
underground."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Steve Helber -- Associated Press; Senate Minority Leader
Thomas K. Norment Jr. (R-James City), left, talks with Majority Leader Richard
L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) in Richmond. Saslaw says immigration bills that are
punitive will face hurdles in the Senate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Poll Shows Spending Cuts Are Key to Balanced Budget

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ04

LENGTH: 705 words


RICHMOND

Virginia residents want to cut spending to balance the budget, and they oppose
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine's proposal to transfer money from the state's reserve
fund, according to a new poll by Christopher Newport University in Newport News.

As the General Assembly considers the budget of Kaine (D),  the poll found
strong opposition to raising taxes but support for cutting social services and
even transportation if state revenue continues to slow.

The poll could offer a morale boost for House Republicans who say Kaine's
two-year, $78 billion spending plan is too large and based on unrealistic
revenue projections.

The Virginia Poll also gauged residents' opinions on another hot topic: illegal
immigration.

According to the poll, taken Jan. 8-10, voters are divided over how to deal with
illegal immigration at the state level.

Narrow majorities support cutting off state and local services to illegal
immigrants, including children, and would like to give local police the
authority to stop anyone they suspect of being in the country illegally.

But residents by wide margins oppose denying illegal immigrants access to
emergency rooms. Thirty-one percent say illegal immigration poses a "big
problem" for the state's economy, compared with two-thirds who say it is a
"little problem" or "no problem."

Immigration and the state budget could dominate the legislative session that
ends March 8.

Kaine has proposed additional spending on public education, health care and
environmental protection, and changes to the state's mental health system.

The governor was forced to craft a two-year budget during a time of slowing
revenue growth. But Kaine's budget is based on an assumption that revenue growth
will double, to 6.6 percent from 3.2 percent by 2009.

To close a shortfall in the current year's budget, Kaine is also proposing to
transfer $269 million from the state's reserve, known as the rainy-day fund.

House and Senate Republicans,  and even some Democrats, say Kaine's revenue
projections are too ambitious because the country might be sliding into a
recession.

Legislators also have raised concerns about taking money out of the rainy-day
fund this year, saying the money might be needed if the economy doesn't rebound.

The poll found that 9 percent of voters favor a tax increase to help keep the
budget balanced. Thirty-one percent say they favor a combination of cutting
spending and tapping the  rainy-day fund to balance the budget.

Fifty-six percent support an approach that relies exclusively on spending cuts
with no transfer from the reserves.

When given a list of ways to cut spending, 55 percent of voters selected
transportation as their first or second choice. Kaine and legislators wrangled
for two years over how to find more money to build roads and expand mass
transit.

Forty-one percent supported cuts to social services to low-income residents, but
few respondents backed additional cuts to public safety, health care and
education.

On the issue of illegal immigration, 53 percent of voters want to cut off all
local government service to immigrants without proper legal status, and 41
percent oppose the idea.

At least half of all voters in every part of the state approve of the idea,
which is being pushed by some conservative House Republicans. In Northern
Virginia, 52 percent support the elimination of public services for illegal
immigrants, and 46 percent oppose it.

Sharp partisan differences on the issues exist. Two-thirds of Republicans agree
with cutting services, compared with one-third of Democrats.

On the question of giving local police the authority to stop suspected illegal
immigrants, Northern Virginians are divided, with 48 percent supporting the
concept, and 52 percent are opposed. A majority of residents in Hampton Roads,
Richmond, Southwest Virginia and the Shenandoah Valley support giving police
that power.

The poll also solicited voters' opinions about creating a bipartisan commission
to draw congressional and legislative boundaries, which occurs after each
official census. Nearly three-fourths of voters support the idea.

For more information, go to http://newsandevents. cnu. eduand go to Jan. 18.

For more Virginia politics, go to
http://blog.washingtonpost.com/virginiapolitics.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Gov. Timothy Kaine has called for a transfer from the rainy-day
fund.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

At Least 20 Dead After Boat Capsizes Off the Bahamas

BYLINE: Tosheena Robinson-Blair; Associated Press

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: NASSAU, Bahamas, April 21


Haitians fleeing their impoverished homeland met tragedy when their boat went
down off the Bahamas, killing at least 20 people and leaving only three known
survivors, including an alleged migrant smuggler, authorities said Monday.

Survivors said the boat was carrying 24 people when it capsized Saturday night,
according to U.S. Coast Guard spokesman Luis Diaz in Miami. Just before dawn
Sunday, fishermen heard screams.

Volunteers searched for bodies, tying life preservers onto them so they could be
recovered by the Coast Guard, said Chris Lloyd of the Bahamas Air Sea Rescue
Association. "We recovered as many as we could," Lloyd said.

The migrants appeared to be aiming for U.S. shores and the accident happened
less than 150 miles from Miami, said Chief Petty Officer Ralph McKinney of the
Royal Bahamas Defense Force. The boat had set out from Nassau and was supposed
to stop in Bimini en route to Florida, he said.

Two Haitian survivors -- a man and a woman -- were being treated at a Nassau
hospital for dehydration. The third survivor, a Honduran marine mechanic, was
taken into police custody as authorities investigate smuggling allegations,
McKinney said.

The two Haitian survivors identified the Honduran as the vessel's captain, Lloyd
said.

Haitian Ambassador Louis Harold Joseph said he had not yet received confirmation
that everyone who died was Haitian, but he expressed doubt that the voyage was
connected to recent Haitian food riots in which at least seven people died.

Survivors described the boat as a go-fast, suggesting the migrants had more
money than others who make the perilous crossing jammed aboard makeshift
vessels.

The Coast Guard has been on alert for a spike in migration following the riots
earlier this month in the Western Hemisphere's poorest country, but it has not
occurred. So far this year, 737 Haitians have been intercepted, according to the
Coast Guard.

Caricom, the Caribbean economic trade bloc, said Monday that it is considering
sending $10 million to Haiti to help it through its food crisis. The United
Nations, United States and Venezuela also are offering help.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Brent Dean -- Nassau Tribune Via Associated Press; A Bahamian
official in Nassau questions one of the three known survivors of the Saturday
accident.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 4, 2008 Tuesday 12:00 PM EST

Virginia County Checks Immigrant Status

BYLINE: Nick Miroff, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2637 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post staff writer Nick Miroff was online Tuesday, March 4
at noon ET to discuss a Prince Williams County ordinance that went into effect
on Monday that allows police to check people's immigration status for even minor
legal infractions.


Washington Post staff writer Nick Miroff was online Tuesday, March 4 at noon ET
to discuss a Prince Williams County ordinance that went into effect on Monday
that allows police to check people's immigration status for even minor legal
infractions.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Nick Miroff: Hi, Nick Miroff here in Prince William County. Looking forward to
your questions.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: I wonder about the driving issues you raised in the story.

It is very difficult to get a legal driver's license in Virginia without all the
necessary papers. So does that mean the undocumented workers are using illegally
obtained driver's licenses or are they driving without licenses?

If the former, that opens those stopped by police to violations of state law
more serious than the traffic violation. If the latter, that is also a violation
of state law but also a major threat to the safety of other drivers.

From the people you interviewed, do you have a sense of the license status of
the people?

Nick Miroff: This is a great question that really cuts to the heart of some of
the enforcement challenges for local police in jurisdictions like Prince William
County.

You're right that it is very difficult for an illegal immigrant to get a
Virginia driver's license. My understanding from interviews with police is that
illegal immigrants will sometimes show a foreign driver's license when pulled
over, or may be using a license that actually belongs to someone else.

There are also cases of illegal immigrants who managed to obtain licenses before
more strict post 9/11 rules went into effect, though they would run into
challenges when attempting to renew their licenses.

In sum, there appear to be a fair number of illegal immigrants who are driving,
and it's something police run into frequently. Under the new rules in Prince
William, the lack of a valid driver's license is much more likely to lead to an
immigration check.

_______________________

Deja Vu: Having the police asking people they deem suspicious "Papers please"
sounds eerily familiar. Has this happened anywhere else in recent history?

Also, I think liberties taken away are very tough to reinstate. At what point in
the future do you think perceived problems will be "fixed" and we can look
forward to having freedom of movement restored without having to produce papers?

Nick Miroff: There is certainly a lot of concern about how the new rules will be
implemented, especially in the county's Hispanic immigrant community.

But police and county officials would argue that the added scrunity doesn't
involve a different set of documents. If a driver can show a valid U.S. driver's
license, the officer will lack probable cause to inquire further about the
person's immigration status. So it's really just the same "papers"-- only that
the consequences of not having them will be different for those in the country
illegally.

As for when the problem will be "fixed," I suppose that's something for the
county's elected officials (and ultimately, voters) to decide as their new
enforcement plan is put into practice.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I don't see how the Prince William cops can enforce the law
"fairly" unless they ask EVERYBODY, regardless of skin color or fluency in
English, for their citizenship papers. Otherwise, it WILL be racial/ethnic
profiling.

I say this as someone who is generally considered "white" and who was born in
the United States (if conservatives will acknowledge that Massachusetts is one
of the 50 states). But I have French Canadian ancestors who were looked down
upon and vilified as dirty, ignorant factory-job stealers in the late 19th and
early 20th centuries, and I am ashamed and appalled that these attitudes have
resurrected themselves in 21st-century America.

Is a U.S. passport sufficient documentation for traveling to and from Prince
William County? It was enough when I visited Tijuana last week.

Nick Miroff: I know that Prince William Police Chief Charlie Deane is very
concerned about the perception/fear that the new policy will result in racial
profiling. This is one reason he's pushed county officials to have video cameras
installed in every patrol car, adding significantly ($3.1 million) to the price
tag of the so-called "crackdown." Officers have been specifically directed not
to profile suspects, and again, the main thing that will trigger additional
scruntiny is the lack of a driver's license.

So I think you're safe keeping your passport for those trips to Tijuana.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: As a black male, I have seen first hand how illegals have taken
better jobs than I could land because I ask for a decent wage in the
construction trade. Don't you believe this crackdown will curb wage suppression
in the area so I am not held down for being both black and legal?

Nick Miroff: Most of the studies I've seen suggest that illegal immigration
fuels economic growth but depresses wages for blue-collar workers who compete
for jobs in construction, food service, and other sectors where illegal
immigrants have typically found work.

As for whether the crackdown in Prince William might create opportunities for
you, my guess would be that it'll be hard to tell, given that it appears we're
headed for tough economic times anyway. Especially for those who rely on
construction jobs.

_______________________

Manassas, VA: I understand that they say that they will not turn it into a witch
hunt, which I believe is total you-know-what. But tell me, why should Latinos
trust police when the police do nothing to help the immigrant community. I have
personal experience in that area.

Nick Miroff: Not sure what kind of personal experience you've had, but I think
you're way off in your claim that police "do nothing to help the immigrant
community."

County police data shows that immigrants are disproportionately affected by
crime, and in some cases, targeted specifically because they're more vulnerable,
ie less likely to report crimes.

One the biggest concerns of police here is that the tougher new measures will
discourage illegal immigrants from reporting crimes and cooperating with police
as witnesses. Some community outreach efforts are underway to address this, but
from my conversations with illegal immigrants here in Prince William, I think
it's safe to say that whatever community trust had been built up is now badly
damaged by the perception that police should be avoided.

_______________________

Annandale, Va.: Nick,

Just wanted to check, what happens if you get stopped by police? Is The Post
going to need to get a new reporter? What documents do you carry around?

Nick Miroff: I've got a VA driver's license. Some credit cards. Not much money
(I'm a reporter, after all). Mainly, I try not to get pulled over, which is what
illegal immigrant residents of the county will really have to avoid now that
these policies are in place.

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: Given your experience reporting from Latin America, would you
say that immigrants in the U.S. have more or less rights than immigrants in
Latin America, and Mexico specifically?

Nick Miroff: It's an intriguing question. I'd say it depends. Wealthy foreigners
and ex-pats living in Latin America tend to enjoy a fairly priveledged
lifestyle, albeit with some inconveniences and bureaucratic hassles. But an
illegal immmigrant laborer from Guatemala working in Mexico is likely to face
much tougher conditions, and, I would say, enjoy fewer legal protections than
immigrants here.

But most Latin American emigrants dream of coming to the U.S., I think, rather
than another Latin American country.

_______________________

Immigrant: I am not a U.S. citizen, but have been living here legally for almost
8 years.

I've held various different visas during that time. And jumped through all hoops
that first the INS and now BCIS put up. It took a huge amount of time and cost a
lot for lawyers (I wouldn't even attempt to navigate this maze without them).

I think there should be checks on immigration status. People who don't follow
immigration law are criminals. If all law enforcement agencies applied all the
mountains of immigration law in the U.S. and we made it impossible for people to
get anything (health care, education, driving license) without proving they are
here legally it would go along way towards discouraging people from coming here
illegally. Also maybe we should make parents prove they are citizens or legal
residents when they register a birth -- your kid doesn't get citizenship unless
you are here legally.

Nick Miroff: Your experience really gets to the frustration of legal immmigrants
who put considerable time and expense into becoming U.S. residents and citizens.

But I'd also point out that there are checks on immigration status. Illegal
immigrants aren't eligible for welfare, food stamps, driver's license, and other
benefits. As for your suggestion that parents must be legal residents in order
for their children to be citizens, it's a proposal I've heard before, but seems
like it would require some fairly fundamental changes in our sense of who is
"American."

_______________________

Follow up to "deja vu" comment: I think that was an absurd analogy to use, the
illegal immigrants here are by their very nature breaking our laws already!

"At what point in the future do you think perceived problems will be 'fixed' and
we can look forward to having freedom of movement restored without having to
produce papers?"

As for this comment, it will be "fixed" when they go through the process of
becoming LEGAL residents of this country. I'll just never understand this
willingness people have to ignore the border and security issues that are at
play here and say eh, you're breaking the law but I don't care. Why doesn't this
blase attitude apply to drug dealers or rapists?

Nick Miroff: I'd say because our legal system does not equate rape and drug
dealing with the act of being in the country illegally. That seems pretty
sensible to me. Technically, illegal immigration is a federal CIVIL violation,
not a criminal one.

and I'd also say that it's a little unfair to say that the country doesn't
"care" about illegal immigration. from watching the presidential campaigns, it
seems more like our country isn't sure what to do about the issue, though not
for lack of interest.

_______________________

Prince William County: So how do all of these new "checking" laws come into play
with the new 28 percent tax increase that members of the county will need to
start paying? Are people glad to pay these taxes? Happy? They are the ones who
wanted to get people out of their county and are now paying for it...

Nick Miroff: The "crackdown" is estimated to cost $26 million over the next five
years. This is not a huge amount of money for a county with something like an
$800 million annual budget, but it's still causing great consternation to some
county taxpayers facing increases.

A correction to your question: the 28 percent figure is a recommended increase
in the tax rate, not an outright tax increase, and is expected to result in an 8
percent hike in actual tax bills. Make sense?

As to whether that makes people happy in the county, I think they're split, but
it's important to point out that these measures were approved unanimously by
county supervisors and there has been considerable public support for them.

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: I am concerned that those who reside here illegally may now
go to extreme measures to avoid ALL contact with law enforcement. Specifically,
in cases of domestic violence -- the abused will not call 911 due to fear of an
immigration-related confrontation. This may be an unintended consequence of the
new PW county laws. Thoughts?

Nick Miroff: I think your concern is a valid one. And it is shared by police. My
impression is that there is still a great deal of fear and confusion in the
community about how these measures will work.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Just a comment: This should have been done long ago. If you are
an illegal alien, you have no business being here. As human beings, we have to
follow laws and face the consequences if we are caught breaking them. This
measure is long overdue and I believe it will eventually restore order in PWC. I
just hope other counties follow example.

Nick Miroff: Just passing along this comment from a reader.

_______________________

Dumfries, Va.: That's a messed-up law they just passed. All immigrants want is a
better life.

Nick Miroff: And this one.

_______________________

Papers: You said police and county officials would argue that the added scrunity
doesn't involve a different set of documents. But what if the infraction is
jaywalking or a non-driving offence? Can the police detain people until they can
produce a passport or birth certificate?

Nick Miroff: Great question. This is where things get complicated-- when the
suspect isn't required to produce a driver's license.

If police have probable cause to think a suspect in a jaywalking or shoplifting
incident is an illegal immigrant, they can ask for valid U.S. identification. If
the suspect doesn't have it, they can ask the person outright if they are in the
country legally. If the person says yes, and they don't come up in other
criminal checks, my understanding is that the immigration inquiry will most
likely end there.

But I also suspect we'll be seeing some of these scenarios debated in court at
some point if these new measures result in lawsuits.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I applaud Prince William county for enforcing the law and
doing its job. I'm a legal immigrant who stood in line, played by the rules,
paid my taxes and abided by all the laws of this great country. If ever I'm
stopped by traffic police I'll gladly show my valid driver's license and
congratulate the police for doing their job!

Nick Miroff: Here's another comment from a legal immigrant and proud owner of a
valid U.S. driver's license.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Nick, I speak Spanish and was in a Fairfax restaurant on
Saturday where an older man was talking to a teenager in Spanish. He was telling
the youngster to never lose touch with his heritage and other nice platitudes,
but also told the kid to stop speaking English, to learn Spanish and speak
Spanish in restaurants, not to assimilate with the culture of the United States,
to date Latin women exclusively, to avoid the police and politicians, etc. Some
of it was a kindly grandfather kind of advice, other advice was absolutely
racist and anti-Anglo. Instead of arguing with the guy, the teenager kept
nodding and saying, "yo se" or "se sabe que" which I took to mean "this is
known." It was really shocking that immigrants who have two countries, mine and
their home country, would display these kinds of hostile attitudes. This is
something I've run into before, but never hear them say in English. Do you hear
this attitude in the rural counties like Prince William?

Nick Miroff: Huh. That's a weird one. I also speak Spanish and frankly, I've
never heard (or overheard) this kind of Hispanic supremacy attitude you came
into contact with. Especially the idea that the kid shouldn't speak English.
That seems pretty delusional. So while I have seen a resurgence of Latino pride
here in Prince William, partly as a result of the crackdown and the political
polarization, I've never heard grandfatherly advice that was quite that bad.

Thanks for all your questions, and my apologies to those I couldn't get to.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 14, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Nativism's Electoral Flop;
Bashers of illegal immigration are failing at the polls.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 568 words


IN THE AFTERMATH of last summer's national debate over immigration reform,
elected officials of all stripes were stunned by the popular passion and fury
unleashed by the failed effort in Congress to provide an eventual path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants. Many Republicans concluded hopefully -- and
many Democrats reckoned fretfully -- that immigration would be the premier wedge
issue of the 2008 campaign. But with the presidential primaries in their
homestretch, it now appears that both the hopes and the fears were overstated.

On the Republican side, what's striking is that the talk-show tantrums of the
anti-immigrant ranters, despite having riled up a vocal minority, have had
little impact on the outcome of primaries. Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who
styled himself as the nativists' champion, dropped out of the presidential
contest after never registering more than a blip in the polls. Former  governor
Mitt Romney of Massachusetts took his turn at strident rhetoric against
undocumented immigrants, to no discernible effect. Rudy Giuliani all but
repudiated what had been his constructive, tolerant record on immigration as
mayor of New York and then got shellacked in Hispanic-heavy Florida.  Former
governor Mike Huckabee of Arkansas took the most rabid line of all, promising to
drive all 12 million illegal immigrants from the country in four months; he
seems destined to be an also-ran, barring unforeseen miracles.

Granted, hard-liners remain apoplectic about Arizona Sen. John McCain's
erstwhile role as a champion of what they regard as amnesty for illegal
immigrants; their ire may yet erode the Republican base in the general election.
And  many Republican congressional candidates will surely try to exploit the
residual fervor on the issue in this fall's elections. But the fact remains that
Mr. McCain is the presumptive GOP nominee, despite what amounts to only a mild
shift in emphasis in his longstanding position. (He now talks about the primacy
of border security but continues to express compassion for illegal immigrants,
who, he notes, "are God's children.") Perhaps the more interesting fallout  from
the immigration debate has been in the Democratic primaries, which have been
marked by  a major surge of Hispanic voters in some states. In California, 29
percent of Democratic voters on Super Tuesday were Hispanic, almost twice the
share they represented in 2004. In Connecticut, their share of the party's
primary electorate leaped to 7 percent from just 2 percent four years ago. In
Missouri, where the Latino vote was negligible in 2004,  Hispanics accounted for
5 percent of Democratic primary voters this year.

Those jumps go well beyond Hispanics' increasing share of the overall
population. And while Hispanics constitute a diverse electorate, concerned with
jobs, education, health care, crime and other issues, it's a safe bet that the
nativist rancor of last year's debate has motivated and mobilized many of them.
This is bad news for a Republican Party that has aligned itself with the most
noxious anti-immigrant voices.

No doubt, the unrealistic and irresponsible advocates of harassment, roundups
and deportations will show up at the polls this November, if only to cast
ballots against candidates who would embrace workable reforms. The hope here is
that their electoral clout will be outweighed by a backlash among fired-up and
fed-up Latino voters.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. Steps Up Deportation Of Immigrant Criminals

BYLINE: Ernesto LondoÃ±o; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1313 words


Immigration officials are increasingly scouring jails and courts nationwide and
reviewing years-old criminal records to identify deportable immigrants, efforts
that have contributed to a steep rise in deportations and strained the
immigration court system.

Long accused of failing to do enough to deport illegal immigrants convicted of
crimes, federal authorities have recently strengthened partnerships with local
corrections systems and taken other steps to monitor immigrants facing charges,
officials said.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said that in the 12-month period that
ended Sept. 30, it placed 164,000 criminals in deportation proceedings, a sharp
increase from the 64,000 the agency said it identified and placed in proceedings
the year before. The agency estimates that the number will rise to 200,000 this
year.

The heightened scrutiny, fueled by post-9/11 national security concerns and the
growing debate over illegal immigration, has introduced a major element to the
practice of criminal law in the Washington region and other parts of the country
with large immigrant populations.

"It used to be two parties in the courtroom: the state and the defense," said
Mariana C. Cordier, a Rockville defense lawyer. "Now you know immigration is
waiting in the wings."

Two groups of people are now more likely to be placed in deportation
proceedings: illegal immigrants who might once have been criminally prosecuted
without coming to the attention of immigration authorities, and legal immigrants
whose visas and residency permits are being revoked because of criminal
convictions.

The number of deported immigrants with criminal convictions has increased
steadily this decade, from about 73,000 in 2001 to more than 91,000 in 2007,
according to ICE.

Julie L. Myers, the assistant secretary of homeland security who heads ICE, said
in a recent interview that she has strived to use technology and improved
relationships among local and federal law enforcement officials to multiply her
agency's eyes and ears in all levels of the criminal justice system.

"It's such a high priority of mine to make sure that people are not released
from criminal institutions onto the street," said Myers, noting that when she
took the helm of the agency in January 2006, ICE did not check all federal
detention facilities for immigration violators.

Since then, she said, the agency has studied the demographics of correctional
facilities across the country and has assigned more agents to check facilities
with higher numbers of foreign-born offenders. ICE's Criminal Alien Program
created partnerships between immigration officials and jailers at nearly 4,500
detention facilities. Federal agents now frequently visit courthouses and jails
to comb through court files. In 2006, the agency opened a division in Chicago
that is responsible for screening federal inmates nationwide for deportation.

Additionally, a growing number of police departments -- including those in
Frederick and Prince William counties and the city of Manassas -- have enrolled
in an ICE training program that deputizes officers to enforce immigration law.

Probation and police officers are also tipping off federal authorities to cases
involving suspected illegal immigrants, defense lawyers say.

"What's happening more and more is the police, when investigating a case, will
research immigration status," said Rob Robertson, an Annandale lawyer who
practices criminal and immigration law.

As a result, defense lawyers and prosecutors are increasingly confronting the
complexities of immigration law -- a task some have assumed grudgingly.

"It's a minefield that defense attorneys need to understand before entering into
plea negotiations in a criminal case, before resolving the case in any way,"
Montgomery County Public Defender Paul DeWolfe said.

An immigration judge who requested anonymity because he is not authorized to
speak publicly said his cases increasingly involve illegal immigrants charged
with relatively minor offenses, such as driving without a license.

"What's growing is the kinds of offenses being brought to ICE's attention," said
the judge, who is not based in the Washington area. The judge said he believes
that is partly due to the growing concern about illegal immigration in many
parts of the country.

"Cities are overwhelmed with the consequences and costs of illegal immigration,"
the judge said. "It's a concerted effort to get rid of them, get them out of
their community."

Denise Slavin, vice president of the National Association of Immigration Judges,
said that when she joined the bench 10 years ago, local law enforcement
officials frequently complained that their calls to immigration agents went
unheeded.

"Now, even something that turns out to be a false charge, they get turned over
to the department," she said, referring to ICE.

Slavin said Congress has increased funding for immigration enforcement
initiatives but has not provided commensurate financial support to the
immigration court system. The flood of cases of immigrants convicted of crimes
has been especially vexing, she said, because judges must evaluate the complex
and fluid intersection of criminal and immigration law, which varies from state
to state.

"It's been a big burden on our system," said Slavin, who is based in Miami.
"We're dealing with more complex cases and fewer resources."

Elaine Komis, spokeswoman for the immigration court system, acknowledged that
the number of immigration judges has remained steady, despite the steep increase
in cases they hear. "We feel comfortable that we will be able to deal with any
increased caseload," she said in a statement.

Immigration judges and lawyers say the case volume is forcing judges to rule
quickly on complicated cases and is keeping people in custody longer as they
await their day in court -- an issue Myers says the government is addressing by
streamlining the removal process in certain cases.

In 1996, a new immigration law dramatically increased penalties for immigrants
convicted of crimes. The law established that immigrants -- even those who have
obtained permanent residence -- can be deported if they are convicted of
"aggravated felonies," a term for offenses labeled as serious under immigration
law.

Christopher Bailey, 23, a Jamaican man convicted of armed robbery last year in
Montgomery County, is among the local illegal immigrants whom ICE promptly
identified and placed in deportation proceedings last year. ICE expects to
deport him after his expected release from prison in 2011.

Damion O. Brissett, 23, a permanent legal immigrant from Jamaica, was sentenced
to three years of unsupervised probation for a marijuana possession charge in
2003. But the Baltimore mechanic was recently placed in deportation proceedings
because of the case.

His criminal record came to the attention of a customs agent who processed his
arrival in October on his return from a visit to Jamaica. Because he had been a
permanent resident for more than five years, he was ultimately permitted to
remain in the country, according to his attorney, Mary Ann Berlin. The process,
however, cost his family $7,000 in attorney's fees and kept him in jail for two
months, said his father, Junior Brissett.

"It was crazy," Junior Brissett said. "He'd never been in jail before. He was
far away from home."

Didi Bonilla, 29, a Salvadoran mother of four, was never convicted of a crime
but came to ICE's attention because of charges brought against her. Montgomery
County police charged her in April with failing to report child abuse to
authorities.

Bonilla had failed to renew her legal status two years earlier and was ordered
deported during a 2005 hearing, which she did not attend. If not for her arrest,
Bonilla and her lawyer said, her illegal status could have gone undetected for
years, as hers was one of hundreds of thousands of outstanding deportation
orders.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Julie L. Myers, who heads ICE, points to improved ties with
local law enforcement.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 16, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

'Wanted' Flier Featuring Delegate Doesn't Fly

BYLINE: Annapolis Notebook

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C07

LENGTH: 666 words


Del. Joseph F. Vallario Jr., the Prince George's County Democrat who has long
chaired the House Judiciary Committee, has been targeted all session by
activists fighting illegal immigration in Maryland. A YouTube video clip
featuring Vallario speaking at a recent immigrant rights rally has been
circulating. In it, the son of Italian immigrants is chastised as a friend of
CASA of Maryland, a Silver Spring-based immigrant rights group.

Last week, things got really ugly at a hearing in the committee on several bills
to deny rights to illegal immigrants.

Susan Payne of Montgomery County had distributed a flier modeled on a "wanted"
poster, featuring a doctored photo of Vallario wearing a large sombrero. "Wanted
for Aiding & Abetting," it was headlined, and it called him a CASA "Hero." Many
on the committee, including the chairman, said the flier crossed a line.

Payne, founder of the Maryland Coalition for Immigration Reform, has made
frequent appearances before legislative committees this year to speak on a
number of anti-immigrant bills.

Vallario said he was disgusted by the flier and testimony and told Payne that
she was no longer welcome to testify. "I just would not pass out this
propaganda. It was intended to intimidate, harass and ridicule," he said.

Payne said she left the hearing room in anger.

"Mr. Vallario censored me," Payne said. "He did not want people to know the kind
of pandering he's been doing to CASA." She called the flier a "political
cartoon."

-- Lisa Rein

Committee, Black Caucus Clash

Members of the Legislative Black Caucus had strong words Friday for the House
Judiciary Committee as it weighed Gov. Martin O'Malley's proposal to expand
Maryland's DNA database.

Specifically, some African American lawmakers were pointing fingers at committee
Chairman Joseph F. Vallario Jr. (D-Prince George's). The caucus, which had
opposed the DNA bill, asked Vallario to postpone a scheduled voting session to
give them time to reach a compromise on the legislation.

But Vallario rejected their request.

"We've been trying to come to the table," said Sen. Verna L. Jones
(D-Baltimore), the caucus chairman. "But we've been excluded at very key points
of the process."

Del. Joanne C. Benson (D-Prince George's), a caucus member, said she is
"extremely and profoundly disappointed" with the Judiciary Committee.

"I really feel that the kind of respect that should've been given to the caucus
was not given," Benson said.

A majority of Judiciary Committee members resisted delaying a vote on the bill,
saying the black caucus has had several weeks to consider the proposal and would
still be able to introduce amendments during the floor debates.

"This bill did not sneak up on anyone," said Del. Benjamin F. Kramer
(D-Montgomery). "The hour does in fact grow late. . . . It is time to move
forward."

After several hours of deliberation late Friday, the committee voted to pass the
bill and send it to the full House for debate.

Under the legislation, the state would collect DNA samples from people arrested
for violent crimes and burglaries, significantly expanding a database that
currently includes information only about people who have been convicted of
felonies. The bill is a top priority for O'Malley (D) and Attorney General
Douglas F. Gansler (D).

But seeking compromise, several lawmakers have proposed amendments that would
weaken the legislation.

-- Philip Rucker

No. 2s Add Up to Coup for Brown

Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown (D) touted a victory last week when he announced that
he has successfully convinced the National Lieutenant Governors Association to
hold its 2009 summer conference in Maryland.

The conference, which draws those officials first in line of succession to the
governorship of each state, will be held in July 2009. The No. 2s will spend two
days in Baltimore and one day in Annapolis.

"This is a great opportunity to showcase to state leaders all across the nation
the greatness of what Maryland has to offer," Brown said in a statement.

-- Philip Rucker

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
March 16-22

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 735 words

Pr. William Police Will Be Watched Group to Study Crackdown on Illegal
Immigrants

The police are among those being watched in Prince William County.

Under a crackdown in the county, the immigration status of crime suspects will
be checked if officers think they are in the country illegally. But officers'
actions will also be scrutinized -- by a team of college professors and
criminologists studying the consequences of the crackdown. Among the questions
they're looking to answer: If many illegal immigrants leave the county, is it
out of fear or because of the economy?

"Too often we put things in place, we pass laws and don't look back," Police
Chief Col. Charlie T. Deane said. "We need to know how this impacts our overall
mission of keeping the community safe."

11th District Contest Gets Testy Byrne, Connolly Take Swipes Ahead of Primary

The gloves seem to be off in Northern Virginia's 11th District Democratic
Congressional primary, and voters won't head to the polls for three months.

A mailing paid for in part by the campaign of Leslie L. Byrne accuses candidate
Gerald E. Connolly of helping his contributors get "lucrative contracts" with
Fairfax County, where he is chairman of the Board of Supervisors. Connolly's
campaign manager called the claims "outrageous."

For his part, Connolly accused Byrne of "swiftboating" Mark R. Warner when she
unsuccessfully ran against him in a U.S. Senate primary about a dozen years ago.
The two other Democrats in the 11th District race, Douglas J. Denneny and Lori
P. Alexander, haven't raised as many hackles.

Metro to Suspend Work on Tracks Temporary Halt to Accommodate Heavier Crowds

You don't have to worry about the usual track closures on Metro this weekend.
But you might need to worry about the crowds.

Starting this weekend, Metro is temporarily suspending most track maintenance
work for four weekends  as the system heads into its busiest season. The work
will continue overnight while the system is closed.

Group Plans to Take Guns to Restaurants Move Is Response to N.Va. Senator's
Comments

Gun rights advocates in Virginia are up in arms. Angered by a statement from
Senate Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax), members of a pro-gun group
plan to take guns into restaurants in his Northern Virginia district each
Saturday in April.

Tom Lisk, a lobbyist for the Virginia Hospitality and Travel Association, says
the group might alert Fairfax County restaurants so they won't be alarmed. "What
they are planning to do is certainly legal," Lisk said, but "they are using
restaurants to advance their political and legislative agenda."

Saslaw had said on the Senate floor that those who take guns into restaurants in
urban areas are being asked to leave. Gun activists say that's not true. Under
Virginia law, people may carry guns into any of the 6,000 restaurants in the
state that serve alcohol, as long as the weapons are displayed openly and not
concealed. People also are allowed to take concealed weapons into the 11,000
restaurants that do not serve alcohol, as long as they have a permit.

VDOT Vows Reforms After Ice Storm Agency Says It Mishandled Response in February


Just wait until next time. The Virginia Department of Transportation has
outlined a series of reforms that it says will prevent a debacle like the one
caused by an ice storm in February that brought the region's evening rush-hour
traffic to a standstill.

"The events . . . were clearly unacceptable," said VDOT Commissioner David S.
Ekern. "We'll learn from this, and we'll move forward."

More than 100 traffic incidents were reported the evening of Feb. 12 at the
Springfield interchange, one of the East Coast's largest highway interchanges.
Anti-icing equipment went unused, and electronic warning signs remained dark.
But Ekern said a formal action plan for ice storms and a clarified chain of
command should stave off repeat performances.

Growth Is Slowing in Pr. William, Loudoun Data Show Departure From Years of
Expansion

After several years of go-go growth, the population expansion in outer suburbs
such as Prince William and Loudoun counties is slowing down.

During the early 2000s, Loudoun's population grew by as much as 9 percent a
year. In each of the past two years, the county grew by less than 5 percent.
Prince William,  where population once jumped by more than 4 percent a year, is
growing by about 2 percent, according to recent census estimates.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Iraq War Protests
Police carry away Jessica Serrante, 19, of Bridgewater, N.J., at a demonstration
in Washington. Several protests were held across the city to mark the fifth year
of the war.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

41 Arrested in First Month Of Stricter Immigration Policy

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 591 words


Nearly 100 people have been questioned about their citizenship status in Prince
William County since a crackdown on illegal immigration went into effect a month
ago, Police Chief Charlie T. Deane told supervisors yesterday.

Most of the checks have occurred during traffic stops and calls for service,
Deane said. Forty-one of the 89 people whom officers questioned were arrested on
various charges and taken to the county's adult detention center.

Deane's report was the first that the Board of County Supervisors has received
about the stepped-up enforcement since it began March 3.

The board voted in the fall to direct officers to check the residency status of
crime suspects who they think might be in the country illegally. Many in the
immigrant community have said they fear that police will use the program to
profile Latino residents.

In an interview, Deane said he would offer no judgment about how well the
measures are working.

Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said, "I was pleasantly surprised
by the numbers. That's pretty good. It's a lot more than expected." But, he
said, "it's a bit early to fully judge the police portion of the program."

Prince William has detained almost 700 people since July, when the county began
implementing federal immigration laws. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is
supposed to pick up detainees within 72 hours, but there has been a two- to
three-week lag time, said Prince William Police Maj. Peter Meletis.

"In order for it to work inside the jail, ICE has to do its part," said Meletis,
superintendent of the jail. "They don't have the budget or manpower to keep up
with the amount of people we are detaining."

Mark X. McGraw, deputy special agent of the Washington field office for ICE,
said the agency can't handle the influx of arrested suspects.

"We've gotten ahead of ourselves," he said. "But we are doing the best we can.
We never expected that to happen as fast as it did." Jail officials could not
provide the outcomes of the cases of the 41 people arrested.

Deane's briefing came a few days after Stewart had tried to prevent the chief
from holding a public meeting with Mexican consul Enrique Escorza. Stewart had
said that Deane should not meet with officials of foreign governments.

Deane held the meeting Thursday, saying that the board had directed him to reach
out to the community as police officers began enforcing laws directed at
detaining illegal immigrants.

The meeting was consistent with the police department's public outreach efforts,
Deane said yesterday.

"That meeting was not unprecedented," he said.

Patric Quinn, president of the Police Association of Prince William County, said
association members back the chief in regard to the meeting with Escorza.
Stewart should have carefully considered the chief's actions before "publicly
undermining him," Quinn told the board yesterday. "Proper protocol was followed.
He is simply carrying out your directive."

Stewart said he felt no need to apologize. "I never said anything bad about the
chief," he said. "He satisfactorily answered my questions, and I'm convinced now
there was nothing wrong with the meeting."

Former supervisor Hilda M. Barg defended the chief to the board.

"Chief Charlie Deane is a man of integrity who has kept his promise to the
people of this community . . . by holding public meetings and removing the
hatred and the fear," she said to Stewart. "I'm appalled that you have publicly
attacked the chief."

Stewart later said: "That's Hilda. That's what I expect her to say. She's never
been a fan."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Giuliana Nakashima -- The Washington Post; Charlie T. Deane,
Prince William County police chief, said most residency checks have occurred
during traffic stops and calls for service.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

How We Respond to Illegal Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 566 words


In his April 21 op-ed, "Arizona's Immigration Two-Step," Lee Hockstader reminded
us that  Congress's failure to pass comprehensive immigration reform last summer
has not  prevented states such as Arizona from  trying to fashion immigration
policies of their own.

I agree with Mr. Hockstader's concern regarding Arizona's policies, but I
disagree with his implication that such policies have no value other than as a
stopgap until the  federal government  acts. In fact, the desire of people on
both sides of the debate to be more active on immigration at the state level
predates the failure of Congress to pass comprehensive reform, and this growing
movement is likely to continue.

Moreover, we should welcome this trend toward immigration "federalism" just as
we have welcomed federalism in so many other areas of national policy. Some
state policies may produce unintended consequences, but this is no less true of
federal policies. Having states involved in policymaking -- as partners and
initiators -- is an opportunity to experiment and gives  citizens at the grass
roots a stronger voice.

STEWART LAWRENCE

Washington

Â·

Regarding the April 28 front-page article "N.Va. Hit With Cost of School
Migration":

Three cheers for the brave members of the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors for their effort to rid the county of illegal immigrants. These
latest measures have been taken to protect the citizens and legal residents of
Prince William, which is exactly what elected representatives are supposed to
do. Let's hope the most recent attempt to roll back their efforts will fail.

As a teacher in Fairfax County, I see firsthand how much money illegal
immigrants cost Northern Virginia. With free and reduced-price lunches, extra
ESOL teachers, "community liaison" staffing (a.k.a. "interpreters") and new
teachers needed to accommodate increasing enrollment, law-abiding taxpayers are
being fleeced.

And now I and others like me, most of whom remain silent for fear of being
labeled racists, will have to absorb the flow of lawbreakers from Prince William
seeking refuge in Fairfax. But even the residents of wealthy Fairfax will
eventually tire of raising taxes to accommodate illegal activity in the name of
tolerance and diversity. Sadly, it will probably come too late to spare the
county's nationally renowned school system the problems other schools have
struggled with for years.

PATRICK PHILLIPS

Chantilly

Â·

The crackdown on illegal immigrants in Prince William County has had many
negative consequences. Hispanic restaurants are closing. Businesses are losing
workers. Hispanic neighborhoods are full of houses for sale. Students are
disappearing from schools. Hispanic breadwinners languish in jail awaiting
deportation.

All of this reduces tax revenue to the county. These are people who are striving
to better themselves in America because their native countries have little to
offer. Is this a model for our national immigration policy?

Let's try an alternative approach. Why not grant amnesty to the illegal
immigrants who are here, provided they learn English? We think bilingual
teachers and volunteers in Prince William would be willing to work evenings
teaching English to these desperate people.

It would certainly cost much less than the current approach. Can we not, as our
forefathers did, welcome people who want to make their lives better?

DON and CINDY WHITTAKER

Woodbridge

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Council Votes to Stay an Immigrant 'Sanctuary'

BYLINE: Steve Hendrix; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 631 words


The Takoma Park council voted unanimously last night to reaffirm the town's
status as a "sanctuary city" where police and other municipal employees are
forbidden from enforcing federal immigration laws, an action members say is
meant to set the community pointedly apart from localities roiled by the illegal
immigration debate.

It comes two weeks after they turned down a request by the police chief for more
flexibility in executing immigration warrants for possible deported felons.

"I hope it comes out very clearly that Takoma Park is going in the opposite
direction as some of these other communities," Mayor Kathy Porter said.

In recent months, a handful of local jurisdictions have taken action against
illegal immigrants. Prince William County, for example, has authorized its
police force to check the immigration status of certain crime suspects and has
voted, along with Loudoun County, to curtail government services to illegal
immigrants. Herndon has closed a day-laborer center used by many immigrants.

Takoma Park has long been known for its independent stands. In the past, it has
declared itself a nuclear-free zone, and earlier this year, the council voted to
call for the impeachment of President Bush and Vice President Cheney. The town
also allows residents who are not U.S. citizens to vote in municipal elections.

The flurry of activity on immigration was sparked this year when a Guatemalan
man was deported after a traffic stop by Takoma Park police. An immigration
warrant for the man showed up on the National Crime Information Center database,
and the officer contacted federal authorities, not knowing that the city's
sanctuary law prohibited him from doing so.

The law was originally passed in 1985, but immigration warrants were added to
the crime database only in 2002.

Takoma Park Police Chief Ronald Ricucci, who took over the department in
February, instituted rules to keep his officers in compliance with town law. But
he also asked the council to loosen restrictions for one particular category of
illegal immigrant: those who were once convicted of violent felonies and were
deported after serving their sentences.

To check for such violators, Ricucci asked that his officers be allowed to
follow up on the database hits with a call to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE). If the warrant was for an ordinary immigration violation,
police would go no further and let the person go. If it was for a deported
violent felon, they would detain him for federal authorities.

"It's very rare," Ricucci said. "We've only gotten three ICE hits this year out
of hundreds of checks we make a day. But I thought it was my duty to bring it
up."

Ricucci said he had positive meetings on the issue with council members and the
advocacy group CASA of Maryland, whose objections focused on the reported
unreliability of the federal crime database and with the importance of not
fraying the immigrant community's trust in the police. The request turned into a
discussion on Takoma Park's commitment to its sanctuary law.

A series of hearings in recent weeks featured often emotional testimony,
frequently from residents who see the law as central to the town's reputation as
a hub of social and political activism.

Takoma Park "is a sanctuary for me against what is going on in this country,"
said resident Jenny Hughes at an Oct. 15 hearing. "I have always been proud of
the fact that our city is a place where I can feel not just physically safe but
politically safe."

The few residents who spoke in favor of the change said the chief should be
granted the powers he sought.

"We want police enforcement. We want law enforcement," Steve Davies said. "But
this guy comes in and tries to propose something to protect officers and the
public, and you're not agreeing with him."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Timothy D. Hugo (R)*

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA37

LENGTH: 464 words

Timothy D. Hugo (R)*

Age:  44

Residence: Clifton.

Education: BA, government, William & Mary; Kodak Fellowship, Senior Managers in
Government program, Harvard University.

Occupation: Executive director, Free File Alliance; U.S. Army Reserve, 1991-98.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Virginia House of Delegates
2002-present; board member, Occoquan Watershed Coalition; member, St. Andrew's
Church, American Legion, Rotary Club, Clifton Lions Club, Knights of Columbus.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Legal immigrants helped to build this country and have enriched our society.
But illegal immigrants have broken our laws and place a tremendous burden on
Virginia and Fairfax County. As your delegate, I refuse to sit back and say that
there is nothing we can do to individuals whose first action was to break our
laws. Illegal immigration is taking a heavy toll on our state health care, law
enforcement, education system and our overall security. We must crack down on
businesses that knowingly hire illegal immigrants, deny taxpayer benefits to
illegal immigrants and strictly enforce our current laws."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will work to keep taxes low and relieve traffic congestion, improve our
schools, enforce immigration laws and provide common-sense solutions for Fairfax
County."

Web site:

http://www.timhugo.com

E-mail address:

delegate@timhugo.com

Rex A. Simmons (D)

Age:  56

Residence: Fairfax Station.

Education: BA, political science, University of North Carolina; MA, public
administration, American University.

Occupation: Retired assistant inspector general, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Association of Government Accountants,
school booster clubs and PTSA; youth basketball coach; office fundraising
executive, Combined Federal Campaign; fundraiser, American Cancer Society.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"The traffic mess is choking our district. Like many other residents, my wife
and I have had lengthy commutes to our jobs in downtown Washington. The traffic
seriously erodes the quality of life in southwestern Fairfax County by robbing
us of time together and time with our families. Increasingly, the heavy traffic
is dangerous. A fundamental key to maintaining our region's prosperity is an
updated transportation system that can support our growing population. And we
must give our local governments the means to control future development so we do
not have to keep paying to fix transportation."

Why should voters elect you?

"I have a public administration background, experience improving government and
cutting waste, deep community roots and connections and can devote full time to
the job."

Web site:

http://www.rexsimmons.com

E-mail address:

rex@rexsimmons.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Losses Might Doom GOP-Led Crackdown on Illegal Immigrants;
_

BYLINE: Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 933 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Nov. 8


House Republican leaders, who made immigration a centerpiece of the fall
campaign, said Thursday that efforts in the Virginia General Assembly to crack
down on illegal immigrants probably are doomed because of losses their party
suffered in the election this week.

"It's dead on arrival," said Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax), who chairs the
Virginia Crime Commission, which is considering immigration proposals. "It's
very disappointing."

House leaders said they still would introduce anti-illegal immigration bills,
including those that would prohibit illegal immigrants from attending public
colleges, require sheriffs to check immigration status and suspend the business
licenses of companies that hire illegal immigrants.

They said, however, that even if the GOP-led House approves the proposals, they
are not optimistic that the Senate, which will be controlled by Democrats for
the first time in a decade, would consider any of them. Gov. Timothy M. Kaine
(D) has said he believes immigration policy is largely a federal issue.

"It's going to be a lot tougher," said Del. Terry G. Kilgore (R-Scott), chairman
of the House Republican caucus. "I'm sure it's not on the top of [the
Democrats'] list. . . . But we are going to push forward."

Sen. Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax), who is poised to become majority leader in
the Senate, accused Republicans of using the illegal immigration issue to try to
win voters in Tuesday's legislative elections and said his chamber would not
tolerate the same kind of "grandstanding." Many of the House and Senate
candidates who embraced the party's stance on illegal immigration lost,
including several in Northern Virginia.

Saslaw said he would consider all legislation but immigration is not one of his
priorities. Instead, he would rather see lawmakers revisit the costly and
contentious abusive-driver fees, the budget shortfall and education funding.

"I'm willing to look at all legislation," he said. "It doesn't mean I have to
vote for it all."

More than 50 bills dealing with illegal immigration were proposed during the
legislative session this year. Only seven were sent to Kaine for his signature,
including increased penalties for housing violations.

Many of the bills died after they reached the Senate, which is now controlled by
a group of moderate Republicans who often collaborate with Democrats. After
Tuesday, Democrats have a 21-seat advantage in the 40-member chamber, with one
race undecided.

Tim Freilich, legal director for the Virginia Justice Center for Farm and
Immigrant Workers, said he hopes legislators will be thoughtful when considering
proposals next year.

"Unfortunately, I think there will be many proposals introduced that I would
consider to be both anti-immigrant and anti-Virginia," he said. "More than 10
percent of Virginians were born outside the United States. When you hurt
Virginia's immigrants you hurt Virginia."

Republicans across the state, and some Democrats in conservative districts,
seized the issue this fall, unveiling countless proposals to curb illegal
immigration and talking it up on the campaign trail. But many candidates who
campaigned the loudest for tough sanctions against illegal immigrants did not
win.

"I am hoping that the people will really understand that the election sent a
message that voters don't reward them for this issue," said Claire Guthrie
Gastanaga, who represents several immigrant groups, including the Virginia
Coalition of Latino Organizations.

But Corey A. Stewart (R) said his election to a full term as chairman of the
Prince William Board of County Supervisors proved that many Virginians want
local and state government to step in because the federal government has failed
to address the country's immigration problem.

Although state and local governments can do little to resolve immigration
concerns, a Washington Post poll in early October found that 53 percent of
Virginians said they want state and local governments to do "a lot" to deal with
illegal immigration.

Since an immigration overhaul package died in Congress this summer, several
organizations in Virginia have formed to try to address illegal immigration, and
several localities have acted.

Prince William voted to curtail government services to illegal immigrants, and
Herndon voted to close a controversial day-laborer center frequented by many
illegal immigrants. Fairfax County officials are trying to determine which
county services could be denied to illegal immigrants, although they have not
decided to do that.

Sen. John S. Edwards (D-Roanoke), who sits on two Senate committees that often
consider immigration bills, said he could consider any proposals that come up
during the session next year.

"We need to look at the proposals first," he said. "Some of their ideas are
preposterous. Others we could work with."

The state crime commission would consider several proposals next week, including
automatically denying bail to illegal immigrants who commit crimes unless they
can prove they are not flight risks, and having authorities ask all arrestees
about their immigration status. A new Virginia Commission on Immigration, which
also is scheduled to meet next week, will advise Kaine and the General Assembly
on what, if any, state policies should be adopted to address illegal
immigration.

Sen. John C. Watkins (R-Chesterfield), who chairs the commission on immigration,
said he expects the issue to be debated by his group and later by the General
Assembly.

"It took two years to come up with a commission and put it in place," he said.
"Why did we go to all the trouble of putting the commission in place?"

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Panel Urges Action by State Police

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 647 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Nov. 13


The Virginia Crime Commission called on the General Assembly on Tuesday to ask
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) to require state troopers to help federal authorities
detain and deport illegal immigrants.

The commission's recommendation, one of a series of actions it took Tuesday
related to illegal immigration, will put pressure on Kaine and the newly elected
Senate Democratic majority to take up an issue that split state lawmakers during
the fall campaign and caused local governments such as Prince William County's
to enact their own measures.

According to a recent Washington Post poll, an overwhelming majority of
Virginians want the state and local governments to do more about illegal
immigration. Eight in 10 state residents said they would support a measure
requiring local police to check the immigration status of people they suspect of
a crime and think might  be undocumented.

Prince William police officers soon will check the immigration status of anyone
suspected of breaking the law, whether for speeding or shoplifting, if they
believe that person is in the country illegally.

The 13-member Crime Commission, which is dominated by Republicans, was more
guarded, recommending that state police limit their checks of immigration status
to people suspected of committing violent, drug-related or gang-related crimes.

"Everybody who is arrested for being drunk in public, there's not enough money
in the federal government to put a detainer on that person, pay for a place to
stay and then deport them. Practically, that's not possible," said Del. David B.
Albo (R-Fairfax), chairman of the commission, a criminal justice agency that
advises lawmakers on public safety issues. "We are looking to create a system by
which the people who are arrested for certain crimes are guaranteed to be
deported."

Some of the panel's less controversial recommendations will probably win
support, such as automatically denying bail to illegal immigrants who commit
crimes unless they can prove they are not flight risks. The commission also
wants the legislature to require all regions of the state to form anti-gang task
forces.

The commission acknowledged that Kaine and the Democrats will probably reject
the state police proposal, as they have in the past, because they believe
immigration is a matter for the federal government.

"I expect the governor will reject it," said Albo, who helped the GOP make
illegal immigration a campaign issue this fall. "He has consistently said he
does not want to give [that] authority to state police."

Kaine's position has not changed, said Gordon Hickey, the governor's press
secretary. "His position has been clear: The commonwealth is doing all it can,"
Hickey said Tuesday. "It is not the commonwealth's job to pick up the slack for
the federal government."

The commission approved 16 immigration-related recommendations for lawmakers,
who return in January.

Other recommendations include requiring databases about inmates to include
immigration status, calling on state corrections officials to verify Social
Security numbers and asking law enforcement officials to check inmates' names
against certain federal databases.

Last month, a commission task force on immigration rejected its most
controversial proposal -- to build a 1,000-bed detention center where illegal
immigrants arrested for certain crimes could be held until federal officials
deport them. Instead, the commission voted to ask lawmakers to give more money
to localities to house arrested illegal immigrants and to build or expand jails.

Localities would be allowed to keep all of the money the federal government
sends them to house federal inmates, including arrested illegal immigrants,
instead of giving a share to the state. Sheriffs also would receive 50 percent,
rather than 25 percent, of the cost of expanding or building jails.

Polling director Jon Cohen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. Coalition To Focus On Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 962 words


County and city leaders from several Virginia jurisdictions have formed a group
to push for tougher measures against illegal immigrants, the latest sign that
local governments in the state will look for ways to act while immigration
reform remains stalled in Congress.

The Coalition on Illegal Aliens will consider the impact of illegal immigrants
on residential overcrowding, crime, public services and other quality-of-life
concerns while developing proposals for state and local laws. The coalition will
also look at measures designed to punish employees who hire illegal immigrants
and landlords who house them.

Leaders from across the state hope to capitalize on the momentum created by
policies targeting illegal immigrants in Prince William and Loudoun counties and
elsewhere, though it's unclear whether the policies will prove to be a
deterrent.

The coalition is the third multi-jurisdictional body in the state created this
year to address the issue. The others are the Virginia Commission on Immigration
and the Alien Criminal Enforcement Task Force.

But leaders of the new coalition -- some from areas where illegal immigrants are
admittedly scarce -- said their effort will be different. "Those groups were put
together by the governor and the General Assembly," said Herndon Mayor Stephen
J. DeBenedittis, who was picked to be the coalition's chairman at a meeting last
week in Culpeper. "This is a group of local governments who are joining together
to try to make our voices stronger."

Coalition members said DeBenedittis was chosen because of his experience in the
successful fight to shut down Herndon's day-laborer center. The coalition's
other leader, Shenandoah County Board of Supervisors Chairman Dick Neese (R),
will help steer the group as its vice chairman, though his jurisdiction has few
illegal immigrants.

"Really, I don't know that there's an issue here right now, but this is one way
to flush it out," he said.

Neese said his constituents have kept a wary eye on events in Prince William,
where supervisors voted in October to enact some of the toughest policies
against illegal immigrants in the state. "We're really concerned [illegal
immigration] will be moving further west," he said. "If Prince William cracks
down, it may move to Shenandoah County."

Martin Bernal, a community leader in Culpeper, said it has seemed lately as
though the whole Latino community has been under attack. "Things have really
picked up since Prince William came out with that plan," he said. "They are
blaming us for everything that's going wrong in this country and with the
economy. We'll see what the coalition proposes, and we'll stand up for
ourselves."

About two dozen localities have expressed interest in joining the coalition, but
only about half that many have sent representatives to its first two meetings,
according to Culpeper Mayor Pranas A. Rimeikis. Although it has elected
officers, the group lacks a committed membership list, he said.

"The coalition is in its infancy, and I think it's still trying to figure out
what its purpose is," said Rimeikis, who also sits on the 20-member Virginia
Commission on Immigration, formed this year by the General Assembly and Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine (D).

Rimeikis questioned the value of input from localities with few illegal
immigrants. "If you don't have experience with the issue, I don't know how you
can endorse some of these proposals," he said. The group would best be served,
he said, by comparing experiences.

But others who have attended coalition meetings said they are tired of talking
about the issue and want something done. "People want action," said F. Steve
Jenkins, the Culpeper Town Council member who proposed creating the coalition
last spring.

Jenkins said the group is not interested in debating the pros and cons of
immigration and makes a clear distinction between legal "immigrants" and
"aliens" -- what they say is the correct term for illegal immigrants. They
welcome the former but not the latter. Jenkins's fellow council members did not
appoint him as a representative, so he attends as an observer.

Along with DeBenedittis, outgoing Loudoun Supervisor Bruce E. Tulloch
(R-Potomac) was the only other elected official from Northern Virginia to attend
the meeting last week. Prince William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey
A. Stewart (R) said the county has not joined because of concerns about future
lawsuits over its plan, scheduled to go into effect early next year, that
increases local enforcement and denies certain public services to illegal
immigrants.

Though several of its participants are Republicans, the coalition has no party
affiliation, and it includes police officials and county administrators as well
as elected representatives.

Coalition members voted during that session to create committees for safety, law
enforcement and public services, each with the goal of identifying the impact of
illegal immigration and recommending ways to discourage it. Zoning violations,
hiring practices and crime will be examined, members said.

"There are a lot of impacts, and some things we can't address," DeBenedittis
said. "But the longer the federal government continues to avoid the issue, the
more impact it has on local governments."

Culpeper County Administrator Frank Bossio said that the coalition is looking to
expand and has a lot of work to do before it can make policy recommendations.

"There's an awful lot of rhetoric on both sides of the issue," he said.
"Sometimes there are facts there, sometimes there's just emotion. Our goal is to
act -- but to act with information, data and forethought."

With no plans to meet this month, Bossio said the coalition will not have time
to develop legislative proposals for the General Assembly session, which begins
Jan. 9.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Stephen DeBenedittis
said the group will "make our voices stronger."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 6, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

County Seeks Protection on Immigration Enforcement;
Jail Funds, Construction Part of Legislative Plan

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 644 words


Prince William County is looking for backup in its fight against illegal
immigrants.

The Board of County Supervisors will ask the General Assembly, which reconvenes
next month, to give local governments the "broadest level of immunity" when it
comes to the enforcing federal immigration law.

It also will ask the state to promote uniformity of federal immigration laws by
Virginia localities and "lessen the burden of housing illegal immigrants in
local and regional jails."

Supervisors approved the measures Tuesday as part of the county's legislative
program. Counties generally adopt a generic guide for what they plan to advocate
during the session while also taking a defensive mode, opposing any legislation
that would scale back local authority.

"We have specific things we are looking for, or specific things we are trying to
avoid," said Dana Fenton, the county's director of legislative affairs. "This is
one of several things we do in order to navigate the General Assembly."

One of the initiatives Prince William has attached a price tag to is partial
reimbursement for the county's 200-bed expansion to its adult detention center
once it is completed. It is also asking the General Assembly to appropriate $43
million to expand Bull Run Hall at the George Mason University Prince William
campus and another $43 million to finance the construction of a second
instructional building at the Woodbridge campus of Northern Virginia Community
College.

The county will request continued state funding for the design and construction
of SciencePort, an addition to the science center at Belmont Bay. It seeks $40
million this year and plans to ask for more funding for programs, equipment, an
endowment and other items to build the 200,000-square-foot facility.

Prince William wants the General Assembly to meet the commonwealth's statutory
95 percent share of transit operating and capital costs, which would require
about $175 million a year in new funds.

The board usually approves its legislative package before it meets with the
local delegation. But this year the board met with members in advance to make
sure they were on the same page.

Supervisor Maureen S. Caddigan (R-Dumfries) asked the board to amend the plan to
include a request to help fund the county's Manassas Senior Adult Day Program.
Earlier this year, the board considered scaling back the program because of lack
of participation. But Del. Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince William) and his wife
pleaded with the county to keep it open. Marshall's father-in-law used the
program.

"The delegate reminded us on several occasions that he could have helped if we
asked," Caddigan said. "Let's see if he'll help."

In other business, the board got a preview of the county's soon-to-be updated
strategic plan. County staff members conducted a survey earlier this year, in
which residents ranked the issues most important to them. Eight issues remained
on the list, as they did four years ago, including improving county roads and
the quality of public education, but in a slightly different order.

Keeping the county safe from crime remains the No. 1 issue for Prince William
residents. Meeting the basic needs of low-income residents and promoting
economic development fell off the top 10, replaced by better public
transportation and affordable housing.

The new strategic plan will provide policy guidance for the county's budget and
operating decisions from 2010 through 2013. Nearly 1,300 residents participated
in the survey, conducted from May to July.

Tracking this fall's campaign season, immigration made its first appearance on a
list of priorities among those who attended community meetings in October and
November. It came in fifth to transportation, schools and education, environment
and parks and recreation. Supervisors will select goals in April of next year
and adopt the final plan next fall.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Think First on Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A38

LENGTH: 189 words


The  Dec. 5 Metro story  "Va. Coalition to Focus on Illegal Immigration" noted
the efforts of local officials pushing for tougher laws against illegal
immigrants. The Culpeper coalition's frustration with federal inaction on
immigration reform is understandable.  Rushing to a conclusion is not.

Coalition members can consult with area nonprofits or learn from the work of two
government panels examining  illegal immigration in Virginia. The Virginia
Commission on Immigration is focused on education, jobs, public services and
public safety. A task force of the Virginia Crime Commission looked at law
enforcement. Both panels focused on policies  not preempted by federal law and
on separating facts from rhetoric in a debate that has  held lawmakers'
attention to the detriment of other issues.

Virginia has the tools to arrest criminal  aliens and to prevent those who are
ineligible  from  getting public benefits, something advocated  by some members
of this coalition.

CHERI ZEMAN

KERRIE WILSON

Reston

Cheri Zeman chairs the Human Services Coalition of Northern Virginia, and Kerrie
Wilson chairs the group's immigration task force.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Ex-Official at Immigration Agency Guilty of Harboring Illegal Resident

BYLINE: Jerry Markon; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 688 words


A former top official for the federal agency that processes immigration
applications, whose job was to ferret out corruption at his office, was
convicted yesterday of harboring an illegal immigrant at his Centreville home.

A federal jury in Alexandria convicted Lloyd W. Miner of allowing the woman to
live with him, paying her expenses and providing her with perks, including a
black convertible with Fraternal Order of Police license plates personalized
with her name. Miner was dating the immigrant, a Mongolian woman who was also
convicted yesterday of immigration fraud.

When federal agents began investigating Miner last year, his title was deputy
assistant chief of internal affairs at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, which is responsible for granting citizenship, green cards and other
immigration benefits. His job was to investigate allegations of corruption and
to perform security checks on employees. Miner joined the agency, part of what
was formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service, in 1987.

Chris Bentley, a spokesman for Immigration Services, said yesterday that Miner,
49, has been fired and that the case "is an isolated event that in no way
reflects the professional demeanor and the manner in which our 16,000 employees
approach their jobs every day."

But the prosecution of Miner grew out of another corruption case involving a top
official at the agency. Robert T. Schofield, a supervisor, pleaded guilty last
year to accepting more than $600,000 in bribes in exchange for falsifying
immigration documents to help Asians obtain U.S. citizenship.

When federal agents searched Schofield's house last year, they found a
photograph of him with a woman he had gone to meet in Southeast Asia. In the
background was Miner, who had gone on the trip with Schofield, according to
testimony at Miner's trial. Agents recognized Miner and began investigating him.

Schofield, who is serving a 15-year prison sentence, testified at Miner's
two-day trial in U.S. District Court in Alexandria. After deliberating for about
4 1/2 hours, the 12-member jury convicted Miner of one count of harboring an
illegal alien and one count of encouraging and inducing an illegal alien to
reside in the United States. He was acquitted of helping the woman obtain a
false identity document.

He faces a maximum of 10 years in prison at his sentencing March 7.

"Of course, there is irony when you catch the guy who is supposed to be
enforcing the law breaking the law himself," said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors tough enforcement of
immigration laws and fewer immigrants in the United States.

But Mehlman and officials from other groups said they found no deeper meaning in
the case. "It just shows that nobody is exempt from the human foibles that
sooner or later trip up most of us," Mehlman said.

Miner's attorney, John Gullette, said he was surprised by the verdict. "He just
thought she was just a student and had visa problems, but he had no idea he was
committing a crime by allowing this girl he fell in love with to live with him,"
Gullette said.

"Should he have known better? Sometimes when you fall in love, it can cloud your
judgment. This was a good man who really didn't do any harm to the country."

The woman, Tsomorlig Batjargal, 21, was convicted of immigration fraud for
obtaining a driver's license in Washington state when Virginia would not renew
hers because she was not a legal resident. Prosecutors said she came to the
United States legally but overstayed her student visa starting in 2004. She and
Miner met at a social club in the District.

Prosecutors said Miner, who is divorcing his wife, got Batjargal a gym
membership, paid her cellphone bill and other expenses and tried to start her up
in a janitorial business, according to testimony at the trial. He was acquitted
of helping her obtain a driver's license in Washington state.

Gullette said Miner and Batjargal are engaged, but the relationship might end if
she is deported.

"I doubt that Lloyd will follow her to Mongolia," he said.

Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Weighing In on Illegal Immigration

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 162 words


Here is a sampling of immigration-related organizations recently formed in
Virginia:

Virginia Commission on Immigration: A bipartisan panel studying the impact of
immigration; it will make policy recommendations to Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D)
and the General Assembly.

Illegal Immigration Task Force: A Virginia State Crime Commission task force
targeting criminal illegal immigrants.

Coalition on Illegal Aliens: A group of city and county leaders organizing to
crack down on illegal immigrants at the local level.

Virginia Employers for Sensible Immigration Policy: A coalition of trade groups
and companies likely to challenge proposals that target employers.

Ayuda Business Coalition: Business leaders and entrepreneurs lobbying against
anti-illegal immigrant proposals.

Help Save Virginia: An umbrella group for anti-illegal immigrant activists to
lobby state lawmakers.

Save the Old Dominion: Another umbrella group for grass-roots anti-illegal
immigrant activists.

-- Nick Miroff

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Schooling for Legal Immigrants Only

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 138 words


"Filling the Void after High School" [front page, Jan. 14] described a
disservice done to illegal immigrants, but the article did not say that U.S.
taxpayers are footing the bill for educating the 65,000 undocumented people
graduating from U.S. public schools each year.

It also   did not mention the downside of allowing illegal immigrants to attend
state-funded colleges and universities: There would be less financial aid for
taxpaying American citizens to attend college.

Yes, illegal immigrants provide desperately needed labor, but our country has
laws against hiring these workers. Two wrongs do not make a right.

Our government has a system in place that allows foreigners to immigrate
legally. And I would have no problem paying taxes to help a deserving legal
immigrant obtain a college degree.

JOHN ALFRED JAMES III

Richmond

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Mount Rainier Council to Vote On Becoming 'Sanctuary' City

BYLINE: Jackie Spinner; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 926 words


The tiny city of Mount Rainier is considering whether to declare itself a
sanctuary for illegal immigrants, entering a regional and national debate over
enforcement of immigration law.

If the City Council approves the proposal, the eclectic city of 9,000 in Prince
George's County will join nearby Takoma Park in prohibiting police officers and
city workers from checking the immigration status of residents or reporting
those who lack legal residency documents to federal immigration authorities.
Takoma Park has been a "sanctuary" city since 1985.

Mount Rainier City Council member Pedro Briones, who proposed the measure, said
his intent is not to protect criminals but to allow all immigrants access to
community services "so long as they are contributing residents of Mount Rainier
and follow our city rules and regulations."

Briones added: "Until we have more effective national immigration policies,
there's no reason why hardworking immigrants who may be undocumented should live
in fear that their local police, code enforcement officer or sanitation worker
is going to turn them over for possible deportation."

The five-member, nonpartisan council is expected to vote on the measure after a
Feb. 12 public hearing. One other council member has endorsed the measure, and
another was said to be leaning in favor. But the city, like the Washington
region, appears split on the issue.

Last year, Prince William County supervisors approved a resolution meant to deny
illegal immigrants certain public services and increase immigration enforcement
by local police. Loudoun County supervisors also approved a measure to restrict
access to public services for illegal immigrants, although a new majority on the
Loudoun board recently distanced itself from that policy.

In Arlington County, supervisors voiced sympathy for illegal immigrants
displaced from other communities but declined to pass legislation that would
offer them sanctuary. Montgomery County Executive Isiah Leggett (D) has said the
county should not be in the business of enforcing immigration issues but has
gone no further. Anne Arundel County Executive John R. Leopold (R) has issued an
executive order declaring that the county will sever contracts with businesses
caught employing illegal immigrants.

Mount Rainier is known as a funky, left-leaning community. The city has a
cooperative swimming pool, vegetarian food store, cooperative bicycle shop and
community tool shed for residents to borrow lawn mowers and chain saws. Signs
calling for the repeal of Maryland's death penalty and the impeachment of
President Bush dot many residential lawns like colorful flags at a political
convention.

Census data show that almost 28 percent of residents are foreign-born, compared
with about 11 percent nationally. Nearly 30 percent of residents speak a
language other than English at home, almost double the national average.

A Mount Rainier e-mail group list has been flooded with postings on the
sanctuary proposal. Council members expect a large turnout at the hearing.

Sandra Joseph, an administrative secretary who has lived in the city for 20
years, said she opposes the measure.

"While I feel for people wanting to better their lives, coming here illegally
and getting the benefits just isn't right," she said. "We just don't have the
resources for something like that."

Victor M. Kenworthy, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 85, which
represents the city's police officers, said national immigration policies and
laws should be reviewed. But he said local law enforcement should not be
prohibited from cooperating with federal authorities.

"That's a big sticking point for us," he said. "You have a local entity coming
up with some type of legislation that says it doesn't recognize federal law.
It's not a question of whether the law is right or wrong. We have to respect the
law whether we like it or not."

In fact, city policy bars the police department from enforcing federal
immigration laws and from inquiring about a person's  citizenship status. The
proposed legislation would extend that sanctuary policy to any agent, officer,
employee, contractor or subcontractor of the city.

"There are great residents in our town from various Latin American countries,"
said council member Jimmy Tarlau, who supports the Briones proposal. "We want to
reach out to them. We want to indicate that they are welcome and we don't really
care about their status."

If the measure passes, Mount Rainier will join more than 30 other cities
nationwide that have sanctuary laws in place, including Seattle, San Francisco,
Albuquerque, Austin, Los Angeles and Madison, Wis.

The sanctuary movement took hold in the 1980s, inspired by churches that were
helping Central Americans who fled civil war at home. Berkeley, Calif., and St.
Paul, Minn., were the first two cities to adopt sanctuary laws in response.
Takoma Park reaffirmed its status as a sanctuary city in October after its
police chief asked for and was denied more leeway to execute immigration
warrants.

Federal authorities, however, have pledged to uphold immigration laws,
conducting raids on businesses and arresting and deporting illegal residents
whether they live in a sanctuary city or not.

"Those who willfully violate U.S. immigration laws face the consequences of
their actions," said Pat A. Reilly, spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. "While the courts and various local governments decide how to
approach lawmaking in their communities, ICE will continue to enforce the
federal laws throughout the country."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 3, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Pr. William Needs More Funds for Crackdown;
Reserves to Be Tapped For Immigration Law

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 464 words


Cash-strapped Prince William County will look to its contingency reserve fund to
pay for its crackdown on illegal immigrants.

On Tuesday, the Board of County Supervisors will consider transferring nearly
$800,000 from its reserves to the Prince William Police Department to enforce
its anti-illegal immigrant resolution enacted last year. That will nearly wipe
out the county's reserves this fiscal year, which ends in June.

When county officials set aside a $900,000 surplus last year, they knew it would
not cover the cost of enforcing the plan. Prince William was further hampered
when Virginia cut $575,000 from county police services, leaving the reserves the
only option to pay for the unbudgeted initiative. Supervisors are anticipating a
$51 million budget shortfall this year and are likely to raise taxes.

Also Tuesday, Police Chief Charlie T. Deane is scheduled to brief the board on
the enforcement of the resolution. Supervisors also will receive an update on
the implementation of federal immigration laws at the county adult detention
center.

Prince William has detained nearly 400 people since July, when supervisors
passed a resolution directing officers to check the immigration status of anyone
in police custody whom they have probable cause to think is in the United States
illegally.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement has detained 60 people suspected of being in
the country illegally.

Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said the county is "making good
progress."

"The numbers show this is effective in removing illegal aliens who commit
crimes," Stewart said.

There have been some unexpected issues in implementing the changes, which
officials will discuss Tuesday. The estimated cost of implementing the program
this fiscal year is $1.3 million.

"The processing is more complex than we thought," County Executive Craig S.
Gerhart said. "There is a different level of intensity than we originally
contemplated."

Deane is expected to discuss the Police Department's three-phase approach. The
first phase is training officers and implementing the policy, followed by public
education and then evaluation. The University of Virginia, James Madison
University and the Police Executive Research Forum will review the measure's
fairness after two years.

According to an advance copy of his presentation, Deane will discuss "risk
analysis," using other jurisdictions as an example, especially when it comes to
how to avoid racial profiling and discrimination.

"We can enter this foray at various levels of funding and at various levels of
risk," Gerhart said. "The more we do to mitigate the risk, the more it costs."

Tomorrow the newly created Criminal Alien Unit will begin training in Maryland.
The seven officers will get four weeks of training in federal immigration law.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 15, 2007 Thursday 4:31 PM EST

Pelosi: War, Immigration Hurt Public Approval of Congress;
Speaker Says Clinton Can 'Hold Her Own'

BYLINE: David S. Broder and Chris Cillizza, Washington Post Staff Writers,
washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 631 words



HIGHLIGHT: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi today blamed Congress' failure to bring an
end to the war in Iraq and deal effectively with the reform of immigration laws
as the primary causes of the institution's near-record low approval ratings.


House Speaker Nancy Pelosi today blamed Congress' failure to bring an end to the
war in Iraq and deal effectively with the reform of immigration laws as the
primary causes of the institution's near-record low approval ratings.

In an interview at the U.S. Capitol, Pelosi said the Democratic takeover of
Congress had raised expectations on action to end the conflict in Iraq, and that
the Senate's initial willingness to tackle immigration reform followed by its
failure to do so left the American public disappointed in Congress.

The House on Wednesday night passed spending legislation that sought to tie
funding for the Iraq war to hard deadlines for beginning troop withdrawals, a
proposal that has little hope of passage in the Senate.

"People thought it was a problem that could be solved and when it didn't happen
I think it was a big disappointment," she said. "Usually those low numbers
relate to expectations and there were high expectations" on both Iraq and
immigration.

Pelosi made her comments in an interview for washingtonpost.com's "PostTalk"
program, just hours before seven of her party's presidential candidates are
scheduled to gather in Las Vegas for a televised debate.

Pelosi said that the heavy wave of criticism directed at Sen. Hillary Rodham
Clinton (N.Y.) in recent days stemmed from her status as the frontrunner, not as
the lone woman in the race. "I believe that any 'picking on' ... [of] Senator
Clinton has to do with her being a frontrunner," she said. "Frontrunners always
have to undergo that."

Pelosi, who had a chance to closely evaluate six of the candidates at last
weekend's Jefferson-Jackson Dinner in Iowa, said that she saw up close that
night that Clinton can "hold her own."

Discussing her own rise to the speakership, Pelosi said she did little to
emphasize her gender in lining support within the caucus. "The last thing I
could have said to any of my colleagues would have been: 'Vote for me because we
need a woman in the leadership.'"

On Wednesday night, the House narrowly passed a measure -- 218 to 203 -- that
would tie funding for the Iraq war to a specific redeployment plan for the
troops in the country.

Pelosi cast the Bush administration's plan to draw down 30,000 American troops
from the country as "inadequate," arguing that such a proposal would leave more
soldiers in Iraq next year than were there in November 2006.

Citing a story in Thursday's Washington Post, Pelosi said that leading U.S.
generals have concluded that the stubbornness of the Shiite government in Iraq
is causing more problems than al Qaeda or other insurgent groups. "The
government is not taking political steps," said Pelosi.

While Pelosi said she hoped the House action would help move the debate forward,
she acknowledged that Senate action on the bill was unlikely.

Pelosi sounded a conciliatory note on the current spending showdown with the
White House but repeatedly referenced the President's much larger requests for
Iraq funding when discussing Democratic priorities like children's health
insurance and medical research.

She did, however, express confidence that a deal would be reached with the
president on the remaining appropriations bills -- dismissing the possibility of
a repeat of the 1995-1996 government shutdown that left House Republicans
deflated and President Clinton triumphant.

While admitting that she must do a better job at ensuring the American people
are aware of what the Democratic-led House has accomplished in its first 10
months, she expressed confidence that her party's brand was still strong.

She repeatedly cited polling that showed Democrats with a double-digit leads
over their Republican counterparts in both specific battleground congressional
districts as well as nationally.

Cillizza reports for washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     January 30, 2008 Wednesday 9:36 AM EST

McCain Florida Victory Has an Accent

BYLINE: Robert McMahon, Council on Foreign Relations, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 681 words



HIGHLIGHT: The wide-open Republican nominating contest for president has swung
back in favor of Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) with signals he is attracting support
beyond his normal base. McCain also polled particularly well among Hispanic
voters possibly troubled by the strident tone of last summer's debate on
immigration reform. Known as a maverick in the party for his views on issues
like climate change, the treatment of imprisoned terror suspects, and
immigration, McCain's solid victory (Miami Herald) over Mitt Romney in the
January 29 Florida primary led analysts to suggest the GOP was beginning to
coalesce behind his candidacy. This appeared especially true after reports that
third-place finisher Rudy Giuliani, a former front-runner in national polls, was
set to throw his support behind McCain (AP). McCain has been propelled by
support from independents and moderates. Florida marked his first win in a
nominating process in which only registered Republicans were allowed to
participate.


The wide-open Republican nominating contest for president has swung back in
favor of Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) with signals he is attracting support beyond
his normal base. McCain also polled particularly well among Hispanic voters
possibly troubled by the strident tone of last summer's debate on immigration
reform. Known as a maverick in the party for his views on issues like climate
change, the treatment of imprisoned terror suspects, and immigration, McCain's
solid victory (Miami Herald) over Mitt Romney in the January 29 Florida primary
led analysts to suggest the GOP was beginning to coalesce behind his candidacy.
This appeared especially true after reports that third-place finisher Rudy
Giuliani, a former front-runner in national polls, was set to throw his support
behind McCain (AP). McCain has been propelled by support from independents and
moderates. Florida marked his first win in a nominating process in which only
registered Republicans were allowed to participate.

On the Democratic side, Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) was the other winner in
Florida on January 29, defeating her rival, Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL), by a wide
margin (NYT). But a dispute within the Democratic Party over Florida's decision
to break ranks and move its primary date forward drew a suspension from the
national party, meaning the state's Democratic delegates may not influence the
nomination this year. Still, after abiding by the campaigning boycott, Clinton
swooped into Florida to celebrate a "victory" Obama decried as mere spin (Times
of London). The party's eventual nominee is expected to press for the admission
of Florida's delegates, as Clinton vowed Tuesday night (CNN). John Edwards is
dropping out of the race, the Associated Press reported on January 30.

The stakes on the Republican side were high. Campaigning against Romney, McCain
stressed his national security experience (WSJ) and asserted his leadership on
supporting last year's surge in Iraq. Exit polling of voters showed McCain did
markedly better with those putting the war as their top concern. He also bested
Romney, who is campaigning as a business and finance expert, among voters
placing the economy at the top of concerns (NYT). Exit polling logged by CNN
showed 47 percent of Republicans said the economy was the most important issue.
That far exceeded terrorism (19 percent), illegal immigration (17 percent), and
the war in Iraq (13 percent) as top issues.

The immigration issue, long seen by analysts as McCain's chief vulnerability
because of his support for a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, may
actually have cut the other way in Florida (Miami Herald). Romney received
strong support from Republicans who cited it as the most important issue and
among those favoring deporting illegal immigrants. But McCain gained support
from half of Hispanic voters. And Florida's influential bloc of Cuban-American
voters supported McCain five-to-one over Romney, which the Washington Post said
was less about rhetoric against Castro-led Cuba and more "because he was the
moderate, pro-immigrant candidate they wanted."

McCain captured all fifty-seven of Florida's delegates, putting him in the lead
in delegate count heading into the massive February 5 primaries in more than
twenty states. In conceding defeat, Romney repeated his criticism of Washington
insider politics and touted his credentials for fixing economic problems, saying
"I've worked in the real economy." Giuliani was seen as the night's biggest
loser, after focusing his efforts on Florida while the nominating season got
under way in early January in Iowa and New Hampshire. His emphasis on leadership
as New York's mayor on 9/11 led some analysts to call him a single-issue
candidate focused on the war on terror. Giuliani finished just ahead of Mike
Huckabee, who declared he is remaining in the GOP race. McCain now holds a lead
in national polling averages (RealClearPolitics). The leading Democrats, along
with McCain, Romney, Giuliani, and Huckabee, all offered their views on foreign
policy in recent issues of Foreign Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 6, 2008 Thursday 12:00 AM EST

DHS Strains As Goals, Mandates Go Unmet

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer, Post

SECTION: NATION

LENGTH: 1506 words



HIGHLIGHT: Stumping for President Bush's ill-fated immigration overhaul in 2006,
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff vowed that his department would
wrest "operational control" of the nation's borders away from human and drug
traffickers within five years.


CORRECTION: Earlier versions of this article, including this morning's print
edition, misstated the former title of George W. Foresman, who served as DHS
undersecretary for preparedness from 2005 to 2007.

Stumping for President Bush's ill-fated immigration overhaul in 2006, Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff vowed that his department would wrest
"operational control" of the nation's borders away from human and drug
traffickers within five years.

That projection was based on the prospect of tough new enforcement measures as
well as a temporary-worker program meant to stanch the flow of illegal
immigrants, including the most ambitious use of surveillance technology ever
tried on the U.S.-Mexico border.

Two years later, the legislative overhaul has been shelved, development of the
"virtual fence" has been delayed, and its designers are going back to the
drawing board. Completion of its first phase has been put off until as late as
2011, congressional investigators say. The possibility of this outcome was
flagged early on by internal and external watchdogs, who warned of
unrealistically tight deadlines, vague direction to contractors, harsh operating
conditions and tough requirements of Border Patrol end-users.

The virtual fence is not the first major contractor-led technology effort to be
ineffective, incomplete or too expensive to sustain since the Department of
Homeland Security was formed five years ago this month. Former officials,
private-sector partners and independent analysts say the evolving
208,000-worker, $38 billion agency remains hindered by a crisis-of-the-moment
environment, in which the rush to fulfill each new mandate or meet every threat
undermines its ability to hold a strategic course and deliver promised results.

Among a slew of high-profile projects that have gone astray, DHS has struggled
to field next-generation explosive-detection "puffer devices" at airports and
has projected it could take $22 billion and 16 more years to deploy advanced
baggage-screening systems in airports.

It scaled back and indefinitely delayed the "exit" half of a $10 billion,
biometric entry-exit system to track foreign visitors using digital fingerprints
and photographs, citing technological and cost problems. Homeland Security also
faces a congressional mandate after the Dubai Ports World controversy to scan
100 percent of U.S.-bound shipping containers overseas, while scientific and
logistical problems have hampered a $1.2 billion effort to field highly
effective nuclear detection devices.

To be sure, the department's managers in its first half-decade have labored hard
to oversee 22 rivalrous components. They have improved aviation security and
forged a more unified strategy for improving border security and using
intelligence.

DHS spokesman Russ Knocke noted that Chertoff this week requested a
comprehensive review of airport screening policies to increase efficiency and
eliminate outdated steps, and that the department has begun tracking exiting
visitors at airports and expects more progress soon at land borders. DHS also
moved faster than required to launch experimental scanning efforts at several
overseas ports.

Still, the ever-growing list of troubled programs illustrates the extent to
which each new crisis -- from the 2001 terrorist attacks to Hurricane Katrina to
the Dubai ports scare to the Bush administration's push for comprehensive
immigration policy revisions -- has forced DHS leaders to launch costly
initiatives with broadly defined goals that wind up missing their targets.

"You felt the pressures. You see the threats. You see the political needs and
you think, 'We need to make sure it's the best we can do to solve this problem
as soon as we can.' And that's a constant problem with the department," said C.
Stewart Verdery Jr., assistant secretary of policy for border and transportation
security from 2003 to 2005, who now is a private consultant.

If the Pentagon is the bureaucratic equivalent of Washington's biggest,
hardest-to-turn battleship, "DHS is like a speedboat and it keeps turning . . .
constantly shifting gears," Verdery said. "If you told people five years ago
there was going to be a billion dollars for a fence, people would have laughed
at you."

Department veterans complain that its contract-management system is weak, and
that it still has trouble working with experts both inside and outside
government to set rigorous, enforceable requirements on contractors.

"You have management issues, political pressure, the complexity of what is
arguably a very tough thing to do, all within an unreasonable deadline and it's
kind of the old adage -- we can hurry up and do it fast, or we can take a little
bit longer and do it right," said George W. Foresman, DHS assistant secretary
for preparedness from 2005 to 2007. "External pressures on DHS made this a
hurry-up-and-do-it-fast."

Chertoff disputed congressional investigators' findings based on DHS work
schedules indicating that completion of the first phase of the virtual fence may
be delayed up to three years, including a planned expansion of the tower system
to another stretch in Arizona -- 37 miles near Yuma -- and a span near El Paso.

Instead, he said that technical problems discovered in a 28-mile pilot project
south of Tucson caused only a half-year delay, produced "functionally workable"
tools that are helping agents now, and are only a small part of a broad
deployment of other ground, aerial and mobile sensors.

But contractor Boeing Corp., which received about $18 million for its work, is
being paid an additional $60 million to replace the program's key component and
original goal, better software to link sensors and users. Boeing will also test
and integrate equipment in laboratories instead of the field and will work more
closely with Border Patrol agents, DHS and company officials said.

When DHS announced the fence contract in September 2006 and called for an
operational pilot by June 2007, Chertoff said that "we're not interested in
performing science experiments on the border," and he emphasized the need for
proven technology. "A common complaint about government is there's a lot of
lofty rhetoric, but there's no metrics, there's no holding to deadlines, and the
achievement always falls short of what the original proposal is. Well, we're
very mindful of that," he said.

In May 2006, however, then-Rep. Martin O. Sabo (Minn.), ranking Democrat on the
House Appropriations homeland security subcommittee, had warned Chertoff in a
letter that DHS's contract solicitation did not set a price tag for providing up
to "6,000 miles of secure U.S. border" and failed to define its measure of
success for controlling the border -- a benchmark for which DHS acknowledges it
still has no wholly satisfactory definition.

"The only conclusion I can reach is that the SBINET solicitation is a public
relations document," Sabo said in his letter. "It provides the Administration
with the cover to say that you are doing something to secure the borders."

DHS and its precursors had already been stung by two earlier U.S. border
surveillance programs, spending $429 million between 1998 and 2005 and reaping a
warning system triggered by insects, horses and weather, DHS's inspector general
reported in December 2005. Border Patrol agents eventually ignored 60 percent of
the sensor alerts, while 90 percent of the rest were false alarms and only 1
percent led to arrests.

Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), a former chairman of the Senate Appropriations
homeland security subcommittee, this week called the pilot fence -- known as
Project 28 -- a good-news, bad-news story: It did not work as expected, he said,
but its cost was curbed by DHS leaders. Funding a virtual fence was politically
necessary for Bush's immigration overhaul to advance, Gregg said, but "I think
everyone presumed that once we funded it, it would work." He added: "I don't
know where we go from here."

DHS officials are scheduled to testify before the House spending panel today
about whether the agency's December 2006 projection that it could secure the
border by 2011 with technology, physical fencing and vehicle barriers for $7.6
billion will change. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), former chairman and now the
panel's ranking minority member, called "delays and excuses within the Secure
Border Initiative . . . unacceptable. We need to know when it will work, how
much it will cost and what we are paying for."

Michael P. Jackson, deputy secretary from 2005 until October 2007, said
Americans must learn to allow DHS to balance risks against resources, whether in
controlling the border, securing inbound sea cargo or tightening airport
security.

"People keep demanding with each new homeland security challenge, 'Fix this
today,' " Jackson said. "DHS is not funded to address every one, there's not
time to do every one, and some of the increased effort needed to eliminate all
risk for a given problem ends up . . . wasting time, focus and dollars."

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 25, 2008 Tuesday 12:00 AM EST

Immigration Agency Arrests 34 Workers At Construction Firm

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer, Post

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 544 words



HIGHLIGHT: Federal immigration authorities converged on a Prince William County
construction company just before sunrise yesterday, arresting 34 Latin American
nationals for being in the country illegally.


Federal immigration authorities converged on a Prince William County
construction company just before sunrise yesterday, arresting 34 Latin American
nationals for being in the country illegally.

Workplace raids are rare in the Washington area, and the roundup at CMC Concrete
Construction in the Manassas area appears to be the largest in the region in
nearly two years, according to a review of news releases on the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement Web site.

The workers -- who come from Guatemala, Mexico, Honduras, Costa Rica and El
Salvador -- are being charged administratively and are in ICE custody undergoing
deportation proceedings, said Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman for the customs
agency.

News of the arrests spread quickly through an immigrant community already on
edge after a county law took effect this month allowing Prince William police to
check the immigration status of people stopped for other infractions.

Fobbs said the agency had executed two search warrants in connection with the
operation. Because those warrants were under seal, Fobbs said, she could not
discuss how or why the company had drawn federal attention, nor confirm that CMC
Concrete Construction was the agency's target.

James Rybicki, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of
Virginia, said no employers had been charged. But he added, "Obviously, we'll be
reviewing the case for possible criminal charges."

Public records identify Felisberto J. Magalhaes as the president of CMC and
Maria Brandao Magalhaes as its secretary and treasurer. A relative of the owners
who entered the company's administrative suite in a Manassas office complex
yesterday afternoon to meet with several ICE agents declined to comment.

A few miles away, at a large lot where CMC workers come to pick up equipment
before heading out to job sites each day, about a dozen remaining workers stood
in groups discussing the morning's events.

A 32-year-old Mexican man, who asked that his name not be published for fear of
retaliation from his bosses or the government, said he and three others had
driven off the lot in one of the company's pickup trucks when they noticed a
silver van behind them flashing police lights.

"We thought maybe we had run a light or there was something wrong with the
plates -- we figured at worst we were going to get a traffic ticket," he said.

Instead, the man said, an armed immigration agent leaned in the window and
demanded identification.

"Everyone grew very quiet. We were horribly sad, but more than anything,
resigned," the man said.

He said agents were able to retrieve records demonstrating that CMC had
successfully sponsored him for legal permanent residency years ago. But he said
two colleagues in the truck had no such proof to offer and were handcuffed,
along with five workers riding in a pickup behind them.

Minutes after the roadside detentions, other workers said, immigration agency
vehicles entered the lot and more than a dozen agents fanned out in pursuit of
several fleeing workers.

When the Mexican worker finally reached the lot, he learned that his younger
brother was among those taken away.

"You feel so impotent, to see someone you know, who is just trying to work, go
through this and to not be able to help him," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 27, 2008 Thursday 12:00 AM EST

U.S. to Stop Green Card Denials for Dissidents

BYLINE: Karen DeYoung, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 885 words



HIGHLIGHT: The U.S. immigration service said yesterday that it will temporarily
stop denying green cards to refugees and other legal immigrants tied to groups
that sought to topple foreign dictatorships, placing their cases on hold while
it determines more "logical, common-sense" rules for judging them.


The U.S. immigration service said yesterday that it will temporarily stop
denying green cards to refugees and other legal immigrants tied to groups that
sought to topple foreign dictatorships, placing their cases on hold while it
determines more "logical, common-sense" rules for judging them.

The decision will potentially affect thousands of pending applications for
permanent U.S. residence. The cases of hundreds of others who have been denied
green cards since December will also be reexamined, said Jonathan "Jock"
Scharfen, deputy director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. All the
applicants are living in this country under refugee or other visa provisions or
political asylum.

Most of the applications involve people linked to groups that U.S. immigration
and counterterrorism laws have defined as "undesignated terrorist organizations"
because they took armed action against a foreign government. The groups include
U.S. allies that fought against former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and the
Taliban government in Afghanistan, as well as Burma's military junta and Sudan's
Islamic leaders.

Scharfen said that USCIS recognized the illogic of admitting immigrants under
one provision of the law and then labeling them terrorists for green card
purposes, calling it a "very good question." At the same time, he said, the
restrictions are "written so that the definition of a terrorist organization and
activity is very, very broad." Even groups that have been "closely associated
with the United States," such as Montagnard tribesmen who fought with U.S.
forces in Vietnam, "fall under the definitions."

In addition to the Immigration and Nationality Act, restrictions are contained
in the 2001 USA Patriot Act and the 2005 Real ID Act. The laws, Scharfen said,
"cover groups that are opposed to the government. Any government."

Although there are waiver provisions, they are cumbersome and rarely used.
Denials and delays in processing applications -- with determinations made by the
Department of Homeland Security and the State Department -- have been sharply
criticized by many in Congress and by nongovernmental immigration groups.

"USCIS is right to review such cases, especially for people in Iraq and
Afghanistan who have helped the U.S. and suffered persecution for doing so,"
said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who chairs the Judiciary Committee's
subcommittee on immigration. "It would be tragic to prevent such people from
receiving the full protection of our immigration laws because of a harsh
interpretation of laws that should be used to go after true terrorists."

The catalyst for yesterday's decision, Scharfen and other officials said, was a
Washington Post article last weekend about a translator for U.S. forces in Iraq.
Saman Kareem Ahmad, 38, arrived in the United States under a special visa
program for those assisting the nation's war effort, after his life was
threatened in Iraq. He had received commendations from the secretary of the Navy
and then-Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, now the top U.S. commander in Iraq, as
well as strong support from Marine and Army officers with whom he had worked.
Ahmad was later granted political asylum, but his application for permanent
residence was denied last month on grounds he had once served with Kurdish
military forces that fought against Hussein.

The USCIS letter denying Ahmad's petition said that the Kurdistan Democratic
Party forces fit the definition of terrorist, based on information it had
gleaned from public Web sites, because KDP forces "conducted full-scale armed
attacks and helped incite rebellions against Hussein's regime, most notably
during the Iran-Iraq war, Operation Desert Storm and Operation Iraqi Freedom."

The KDP, a U.S. ally, is now part of the elected Iraqi government, and Ahmad
teaches Arabic language and culture at the Marine Corps base in Quantico and
other military facilities, working with Marines who are about to deploy to Iraq.
Although the letter said the denial could not be appealed, Scharfen said
yesterday that Ahmad's case is now "under review" and should be resolved "in a
matter of days."

Until recently, waivers were narrowly allowed for those who had involuntarily
aided "Tier III," or "undesignated," terrorist groups -- such as kidnapping
victims or those forced under threat to provide assistance. Legislation passed
in December broadened the waiver provisions to include people who, under certain
circumstances, had received military training or participated in violent
actions.

DHS and the State Department, Scharfen said, will now identify groups that may
be eligible for exemption. "We've recognized there are issues that need to be
addressed in a logical, common-sense fashion so that we can apply the exemptions
that the law provides." He said they will "start making a list" of groups from
Iraq, Afghanistan, Sudan, Ethiopia and other countries.

"There are lots of groups around the world," Scharfen said, adding that "it
could be a cumbersome process." But "all of us have this as a priority," he
said. "We want to do this in a way that is careful and deliberate, but also with
efficiency and dispatch." He said that USCIS planned to announce the hold placed
on pending applications on its Web site and that the agency would notify those
whose denials are being reviewed.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 12, 2008 Saturday 12:00 AM EST

Immigration Inertia

BYLINE: James Jay Carafano, From the Heritage Foundation, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 818 words



HIGHLIGHT: "I'm in favor of immigration," Rep. Gary Ackerman (D-N.Y.) once said.
"But we also need rules." Most Americans probably agree. So why are sensible
rules so hard to come by?


"I'm in favor of immigration," Rep. Gary Ackerman (D-N.Y.) once said. "But we
also need rules." Most Americans probably agree. So why are sensible rules so
hard to come by?

Last year, lawmakers on Capitol Hill tried and failed to pass comprehensive
immigration and border security reform. The bill died largely because it tried
to do too many things. For example, it would have granted amnesty to the
millions here illegally and put all of them -- whether they came here to work
hard or to commit crimes -- on a path to citizenship.

Fortunately, that approach collapsed. But the problems persist. America needs to
regain control of its broken southern border and restore the integrity of U.S.
immigration laws. Employers, meanwhile, need legal workers to grow the American
economy. Doing nothing won't make these troubles go away.

There is, in fact, a lot that can be done. Yes, without disgorging a massive
comprehensive bill hundreds of pages long and stuffed with special-interest
demands -- one that members are expected to vote on first and read later. The
problem is, congressional leaders appear unwillingly to let anything come to the
floor. Certain lawmakers are insisting that nothing be done unless Congress
follows last year's flawed formula. Right now, the leadership is listening.

Holding immigration reform and enforcement hostage won't work. An amnesty-first
strategy formed the basis of the 1986 Simpson-Mazzoli legislation, Washington's
last major attempt at an overhaul. Then, an estimated 3 million were "unlawfully
present." Now it's easily five times that number. Rampant fraud and a tsunami of
applications overwhelmed the system. The number of visas for legal workers was
far too small to meet the needs of a growing economy. Border security and
workplace enforcement couldn't keep up with the demand for undocumented workers.

Americans learned their lesson. That's why they soundly rejected this approach a
second time.

But something must be done. American employers likely won't just sit by while
Congress does nothing -- frozen between those who want amnesty at any cost and
those who want secure borders and iron-clad enforcement of the law. America
needs workers. With the economy slowing, it's more important than ever to get
employers the workers they need so that they can prime the business pump again.

High-tech companies are demanding more visas for high-skilled workers. They just
can't get enough. On April 1, foreigners with specialized skills and a college
degree or higher could apply for a U.S. work visa for fiscal year 2009. The
quota -- 65,000 -- was filled almost immediately. Admitting such a low number of
qualified workers hurts the high-tech industry in the United States and pushes
the smartest people to work in competing countries.

Some U.S companies that are desperate for workers, such as Microsoft, have moved
certain branches to Canada and Mexico. Adding these kinds of workers to our
economy makes sense. A National Foundation for American Policy study concluded
the average S&P 500 company creates five new domestic jobs for each H-1B visa
employee hired.

We also need low-skilled workers. According to the Labor Department, between
600,000 and 800,000 here illegally are working on America's farms -- mostly
because employers can't find legal workers to do the job. In a sense, though,
illegal labor isn't cheap labor; it's subsidized by communities crushed under
the burden of education, emergency-room care and other benefits and entitlements
they must pay to take care of America's shadow work force. With food prices
rising and many communities emptying their tax coffers, the need for more legal
agricultural workers has never been more severe.

America wants border security and workplace enforcement, along with a legal
workforce adequate to its needs, now -- not when it's convenient for the
Congress. The administration must continue to increase border security and more
stringently enforce immigration laws. But Congress must also streamline current
visa programs, raise caps and implement measures to reduce visa over-stay rates.

One measure should be to provide incentives for temporary worker visas to
participate in a voluntary land-border exit checkout system. Workers that check
out should automatically be eligible to qualify for future temporary worker
programs. Those that don't should be barred from participating in future
programs. Employers should post bonds that are redeemed when their workers check
out. Countries whose workers exceed a 2 percent over-stay rate for a visa
category should have their citizens barred from participating in that category
of temporary work program.

Workable solutions are possible. But can Congress muster the will to make them
happen?

James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow for National Security and
Homeland Security at The Heritage Foundation (heritage.org) and author of "G.I.
Ingenuity."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 6, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Citing Profiling Worries, Chief Seeks Cameras in Police Cars

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 692 words


The Prince William County police chief said yesterday that the county should
install video cameras in patrol cars to help protect officers from allegations
of racial profiling as they enforce the county's crackdown on illegal
immigration.

Chief Charlie T. Deane told the Board of County Supervisors during its regular
weekly meeting that cameras would help paint a picture of "what really happened
and what was really said" in the field. Cameras create visual evidence, shield
officers from complaints and serve as training tools, he said.

"We want to protect officers and the county from unjustified allegations of
discrimination and racial profiling," Deane said.

The chief said he is concerned that when Prince William's new immigration policy
is put into place next month, the county will experience a surge in complaints
from people stopped by officers. Under the new rules, police are required to
check the immigration status of anyone suspected of breaking the law, no matter
how minor the crime.

"This is to prevent lawsuits," he said.

Installing digital cameras would cost about $6,000 for each patrol car,
officials in other jurisdictions said. That does not include the costs of
monitoring the footage. Prince William has more than 250 cars.

"If they install cameras, it is a good check for police, as long as all of the
videos are available for the public to view," said Nancy Lyall, a coordinator
with Mexicans Without Borders, an immigrant advocacy group. "We are going to see
that the issue is not whether it's effective or constitutional, but whether
taxpayers are willing to see taxes increase to pay for this."

Like other jurisdictions, Prince William is facing a budget shortfall in the
coming year and will have to cut spending, slash services or raise taxes.
Deane's request for cameras was not a formal budget request.

The chief recently visited the New Jersey State Police department to assess its
use of cameras in patrol cars. They have been in place since 2000, after a
shooting in 1998 on the New Jersey Turnpike raised questions about racial
profiling.

In response, the state police installed cameras in its patrol cars at a cost of
$137 million over eight years. Tapes are randomly reviewed and used as part of a
risk-management system to protect civilians' rights and ensure that officers are
following probable-cause procedures.

"It's the trooper's best friend," said Capt. Al Della Fave, a state police
spokesman. "It's protected so many troopers when it came to suits being filed.
The tale of the tape has been tremendous in clearing troopers of inappropriate
behavior."

New Jersey's program has evolved. Initially, VHS tapes were locked in car
trunks, and only supervisors had access to them. Troopers are now testing
digital models that can instantly transmit video to a police station. Instead of
storing tapes in a warehouse, digital displays can be kept on hard drives, Della
Fave said.

Digital cameras cost $6,000 each; analog cameras, $3,700, he said.

Deane said yesterday that the University of Virginia, James Madison University
and the Police Executive Research Forum will review the fairness of Prince
William's policy after two years, a $300,000 effort. Researchers have begun
meeting with local groups, including immigrant-advocacy organizations.

At its meeting yesterday, the Prince William board delayed the transfer of
almost $800,000 from its contingency reserves to the police department to
enforce portions of the illegal immigrant resolution passed last year.

The board postponed the vote because Supervisor John T. Stirrup (R-Gainesville),
who introduced the resolution, was not at the meeting.

The contingency fund is money set aside each year for unexpected expenses. The
estimated cost of implementing the crackdown in the current budget year is $1.3
million.

Supervisors also received an update yesterday on the implementation of federal
immigration laws at the county adult detention center. Prince William has
detained almost 400 people since July. There have been some unexpected issues in
implementing the new rules, leading to higher-than-anticipated costs because of
increased staff overtime and jail crowding.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Lawyer Michael A. Maggio, 60

BYLINE: Patricia Sullivan; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 682 words


Michael A. Maggio, 60, a well-known immigration lawyer in Washington whose
Dupont Circle law firm has one of the area's biggest immigration practices, died
Feb. 10 of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma at his Washington home.

Mr. Maggio represented everyone from Guatemalan housekeepers to a Russian
"whiz-kid" millionaire pursued by the KGB and threatened with deportation. He
advised the father of EliÃ¡n GonzÃ¡lez in his successful effort to return the
Cuban boy to his homeland. His work on a landmark human rights case, Filartiga
v. Pena, in 1980 established the legal precedent for U.S. courts to punish
noncitizens for acts committed outside the boundaries of the United States. Most
recently, he represented Bolivian scholar Waskar Ari, a Georgetown University
graduate barred from reentering the United States to teach at the University of
Nebraska.

Named Washington's best immigration lawyer in 2002, based on Washingtonian
magazine's interviews with lawyers, judges and clients, Mr. Maggio was known
over his 30-year career for championing the rights of the

underclass. He also represented large corporations, nonprofit organizations and
universities.

"He was incredibly dedicated to his clients, he had a very strong commitment to
justice, he hated intolerance, and he could disagree with you without ever
seeming personal, disagreeable or abrasive," said a colleague, Andres Benach.

Mr. Maggio didn't hold his tongue, however; in 1996, he publicly compared the
Washington regional office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
"Dante's rings of hell." Two years later, he said: "The bureaucracy is
unresponsive, the building is Third Worldly, the computer equipment is a decade
old. It's a disgrace to have this office serving the nation's capital."

When a young Russian millionaire banker, Alexandre P. Konanykhine, found himself
in the gunsights of organized crime, he fled to New York, then Washington. INS
agents arrested him and his wife at their Watergate apartment on a visa
violation. The Russians claimed Konanykhine embezzled $8 million in bank funds,
and they threatened that unless the INS turned him over, the  United States
could not occupy its new embassy in Moscow. Konanykhine was granted asylum in
1999 but was rearrested in 2004 and came within minutes of being put on a plane
and deported to Russia. Benach said Konanykhine finally got asylum again this
summer.

"Alexandre's suitcase was sent [back] to Russia; that's how close he came to
deportation," Benach said. Mr. Maggio "showed a relentless determination to
fight deportation . . . where the situation couldn't be any more bleak. [The
case] represents his dogged determination to save someone's life."

Mr. Maggio was born in Philadelphia and attended Georgetown University. He
graduated from Temple University, where he led many politically charged protests
both on and off campus. He had spent part of the 1960s living in Berkeley,
Calif., and graduated from the District's Antioch School of Law in 1978.

A fluent Spanish speaker, he was active in the opposition to U.S. intervention
in Chile, El Salvador and Guatemala in the late 1970s and early 1980s and
represented refugees from those countries who sought asylum. He also represented
Iranians opposed to U.S. policies and Nicaraguans  opposed to U.S. intervention
in their country.

He was honored by the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the American
Immigration Lawyers Association and the National Immigration Project of the
National Lawyers Guild. He received  awards from the Tahirih Justice Center,
which focuses on gender-based violence, and  the National Coalition to Protect
Political Freedom.

A nephew, Peter "Jamie" Maggio, said the importance of his uncle's work came
home to him one day as they rode to court together in a cab. "The driver refused
payment as he excitedly told Michael that he was the reason that the driver and
his family were able to live and work in America as citizens," the nephew said.

Survivors include his wife of 26 years, Candace Kattar of Washington; his
mother, Dr. Lena Maggio of Philadelphia; and a brother.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of Maggio & Kattar; Over a 30-year career, Michael A.
Maggio represented housekeepers, refugees and even a Russian millionaire being
pursued by the KGB.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. to Skirt Green-Card Check;
Action Will Help Applicants Lacking Final FBI Clearance

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 983 words


Facing a rapidly growing backlog of immigration cases, the Bush administration
will grant permanent residency to tens of thousands of legal U.S. immigrants
without first completing required background checks against the FBI's
investigative files.

The change affects a large but unknown number of about 47,000 permanent
residency, or green-card, applicants whose cases are otherwise complete but
whose FBI checks have been pending for more than six months, U.S. officials
said. Overall, about 44 percent of the 320,000 pending immigration name checks
before the FBI -- including citizenship as well as green-card requests -- have
waited more than six months.

The delays have been called "the most pervasive" processing problem in the U.S.
immigration system, according to Prakash Khatri, the ombudsman of U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

The change, announced in an internal agency memorandum Feb. 4, follows years of
criticism by Khatri, the Department of Homeland Security inspector general,
lawmakers and federal judges, who say that lengthy delays in FBI name checks
serve neither national security nor immigrants, who in any case have been living
in the United States for years while awaiting a decision.

Critics blame poor management and coordination at the FBI and USCIS, and the
inefficient system by which the FBI keeps more than 86 million investigative
files. About 90 percent of name checks are completed electronically within three
months, but the rest can take years to finish through paper-based searches for
any mention of an applicant's name in records stored in 265 locations
nationwide.

Applicants already must clear automated checks against FBI and DHS fingerprint
databases and consolidated federal law enforcement databases.

"This is a . . . step in the right direction for the government to see this name
check has really been holding up thousands or tens of thousands of people
unnecessarily," said Cecilia D. Wang, senior staff counsel for the American
Civil Liberties Union's immigrants' rights project, which has tracked nine
class-action lawsuits and thousands of individual suits filed by immigrants
seeking faster processing.

Steven A. Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies,
which calls for stricter limits on immigration, said the shift reflects the
government's ongoing efforts to run its immigration system "on the cheap."

"You end up with people waiting longer than they should, and getting approved
when they shouldn't," Camarota said. "It's bad for crime prevention, national
security and customer service."

Immigration officials expect the backlog to balloon within weeks. Last summer,
before a well-publicized increase  in application fees, the Department of
Homeland Security saw a surge of 3 million applications for naturalization and
other immigration benefits -- 60 percent more than it received for all of 2006.
Those cases have just started to enter the FBI pipeline.

Under the new rules, USCIS will approve otherwise completed cases when the FBI
has not performed  its checks within 180 days. In the instances when negative
information is found -- less than 1 percent of the time, according to the bureau
-- green-card holders will be deported.

USCIS spokesman Christopher S. Bentley said the agency has long wrestled with
how to streamline the effort. He said the change aligns its practices more
closely with those of its sister agency, Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
which admits asylum applicants into the United States before FBI name checks are
completed.

The decision "just seems like a very logical way to get people who deserve
benefits in a very fair and timely manner without compromising national security
or the integrity of the immigration system," Bentley said.

The change does not apply to citizenship applicants because green-card holders
are more easily deported, whereas "revoking naturalization is a much more
difficult thing to do," he said.

Representatives of the American Immigration Law Foundation, the ACLU and other
immigrant advocates hailed the change. But they  questioned why it excludes
citizenship applicants, when they must have lived in the United States at least
three years after becoming permanent residents.

"If they really believe people pose some risk to the United States, why would
they want folks inside, waiting years and years to complete the same name
check?" asked Karen Tumlin of the National Immigration Law Center.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), chairman of a House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee, said beneficiaries of the change are already living in the United
States and often are married to Americans. "The card has no impact at all on
security, but it may have some impact in a positive way on their lives," she
said. "It's not very hard to take away the green-card status if there's an
error."

Rep. Brian P. Bilbray (R-Calif.), who seeks tighter U.S. immigration controls,
objected. "Do they revoke them if they blow up something?" he asked. "There is a
reason why the system was put in to do these checks, and it's national security.
It's scary that we've reached a point where we're waiving that national security
requirement because the bureaucracy is not responding."

Congress has approved more money to speed the FBI name checks. Gregory Smith,
head of the USCIS office that coordinates name checks with the FBI, said in an
e-mail to his FBI counterpart that his agency will prioritize "a significant
percentage" of $20 million in new funding to expedite naturalization cases --
such as hiring 221 FBI contractors -- but "existing resources should not be
diverted" from green-card checks.

The USCIS memo and Smith's e-mail were filed by the government last Wednesday
in a pending case brought by immigrants before U.S. District Court in
Philadelphia. The memo was first reported Sunday by McClatchy Newspapers.

Staff researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

DHS Strains As Goals, Mandates Go Unmet

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1472 words


Stumping for President Bush's ill-fated immigration overhaul in 2006, Homeland
Security Secretary Michael Chertoff vowed that his department would wrest
"operational control" of the nation's borders away from human and drug
traffickers within five years.

That projection was based on the prospect of tough new enforcement measures as
well as a temporary-worker program meant to stanch the flow of illegal
immigrants, including the most ambitious use of surveillance technology ever
tried on the U.S.-Mexico border.

Two years later, the legislative overhaul has been shelved, development of the
"virtual fence" has been delayed, and its designers are going back to the
drawing board. Completion of its first phase has been put off until as late as
2011, congressional investigators say. The possibility of this outcome was
flagged early on by internal and external watchdogs, who warned of
unrealistically tight deadlines, vague direction to contractors, harsh operating
conditions and tough requirements of Border Patrol end-users.

The virtual fence is not the first major contractor-led technology effort to be
ineffective, incomplete or too expensive to sustain since the Department of
Homeland Security was formed five years ago this month. Former officials,
private-sector partners and independent analysts say the evolving
208,000-worker, $38 billion agency remains hindered by a crisis-of-the-moment
environment, in which the rush to fulfill each new mandate or meet every threat
undermines its ability to hold a strategic course and deliver promised results.

Among a slew of high-profile projects that have gone astray, DHS has struggled
to field next-generation explosive-detection "puffer devices" at airports and
has projected it could take $22 billion and 16 more years to deploy advanced
baggage-screening systems in airports.

It scaled back and indefinitely delayed the "exit" half of a $10 billion,
biometric entry-exit system to track foreign visitors using digital fingerprints
and photographs, citing technological and cost problems. Homeland Security  also
faces  a congressional mandate after the Dubai Ports World controversy to scan
100 percent of U.S.-bound shipping containers overseas, while scientific and
logistical problems have hampered a $1.2 billion effort to field highly
effective nuclear detection devices.

To be sure, the department's managers in its first half-decade have labored hard
to oversee 22 rivalrous components. They have improved aviation security and
forged a more unified strategy for improving border security and using
intelligence.

DHS spokesman Russ Knocke noted that Chertoff this week requested a
comprehensive review of airport screening policies to increase efficiency and
eliminate outdated steps, and that the department has begun tracking exiting
visitors at airports and expects more progress soon at land borders. DHS also
moved faster than required to launch experimental scanning efforts at several
overseas ports.

Still, the ever-growing list of troubled programs illustrates the extent to
which each new crisis -- from the 2001 terrorist attacks to Hurricane Katrina to
the Dubai ports scare to the Bush administration's push for comprehensive
immigration policy revisions -- has forced DHS leaders to launch costly
initiatives with broadly defined goals that wind up missing their targets.

"You felt the pressures. You see the threats. You see the political needs and
you think, 'We need to make sure it's the best we can do to solve this problem
as soon as we can.' And that's a constant problem with the department," said C.
Stewart Verdery Jr., assistant secretary of policy for border and transportation
security from 2003 to 2005, who now is a private consultant.

If the Pentagon is the bureaucratic equivalent of Washington's biggest,
hardest-to-turn battleship, "DHS is like a speedboat and it keeps turning . . .
constantly shifting gears," Verdery said. "If you told people five years ago
there was going to be a billion dollars for a fence, people would have laughed
at you."

Department veterans complain that its contract-management system is weak, and
that it still has trouble working with experts both inside and outside
government to set rigorous, enforceable requirements on contractors.

"You have management issues, political pressure, the complexity of what is
arguably a very tough thing to do, all within an unreasonable deadline and it's
kind of the old adage -- we can hurry up and do it fast, or we can take a little
bit longer and do it right," said George W. Foresman, DHS assistant secretary
for preparedness from 2005 to 2007. "External pressures on DHS made this a
hurry-up-and-do-it-fast."

Chertoff disputed congressional investigators' findings based on DHS work
schedules indicating that completion of the first phase of the virtual fence may
be delayed up to three years, including a planned expansion of the tower system
to another stretch in Arizona -- 37 miles near Yuma -- and a span near El Paso.

Instead, he said that technical problems discovered in a 28-mile pilot project
south of Tucson caused only a half-year delay, produced "functionally workable"
tools that are helping agents now, and are only a small part of a broad
deployment of other ground, aerial and mobile sensors.

But contractor Boeing Corp., which received about $18 million for its work, is
being paid an additional $60 million to replace the program's key component and
original goal, better software to link sensors and users. Boeing will also test
and integrate equipment in laboratories instead of the field and will work more
closely with Border Patrol agents, DHS and company officials said.

When DHS announced the fence contract in September 2006 and called for an
operational pilot by June 2007, Chertoff said that "we're not interested in
performing science experiments on the border," and he emphasized the need for
proven technology. "A common complaint about government is there's a lot of
lofty rhetoric, but there's no metrics, there's no holding to deadlines, and the
achievement always falls short of what the original proposal is. Well, we're
very mindful of that," he said.

In May 2006, however, then-Rep. Martin O. Sabo (Minn.), ranking Democrat on the
House Appropriations homeland security subcommittee, had warned Chertoff in a
letter that DHS's contract solicitation did not set a price tag for providing up
to "6,000 miles of secure U.S. border" and failed to define its measure of
success for controlling the border -- a benchmark for which DHS acknowledges it
still has no wholly satisfactory definition.

"The only conclusion I can reach is that the SBINET solicitation is a public
relations document," Sabo said in his letter. "It provides the Administration
with the cover to say that you are doing something to secure the borders."

DHS and its precursors had already been stung by two earlier U.S. border
surveillance programs, spending $429 million between 1998 and 2005 and reaping a
warning system triggered by insects, horses and weather, DHS's inspector general
reported in December 2005. Border Patrol agents eventually ignored 60 percent of
the sensor alerts, while 90 percent of the rest were false alarms and only 1
percent led to arrests.

Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), a former chairman of the Senate Appropriations
homeland security subcommittee, this week called the pilot fence -- known as
Project 28 -- a good-news, bad-news story: It did not work as expected, he said,
but its cost was curbed by DHS leaders. Funding a virtual fence was politically
necessary for Bush's immigration overhaul to advance, Gregg said, but "I think
everyone presumed that once we funded it, it would work." He added: "I don't
know where we go from here."

DHS officials are scheduled to testify before the House spending panel today
about whether the agency's  December 2006 projection that it could secure the
border by 2011 with technology, physical fencing and vehicle barriers for $7.6
billion will change. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), former chairman and now the
panel's ranking minority member, called "delays and excuses within the Secure
Border Initiative . . . unacceptable. We need to know when it will work, how
much it will cost and what we are paying for."

Michael P. Jackson, deputy secretary from 2005 until October 2007, said
Americans must learn to allow DHS to balance risks against resources, whether in
controlling the border, securing inbound sea cargo or tightening airport
security.

"People keep demanding with each new homeland security challenge, 'Fix this
today,' " Jackson said. "DHS is not funded to address every one, there's not
time to do every one, and some of the increased effort needed to eliminate all
risk for a given problem ends up . . . wasting time, focus and dollars."

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

CORRECTION-DATE: March 10, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· A March 6 Page One article about the Department of Homeland
Security misstated a title formerly held by George W. Foresman. From 2005 to
2007, he was the department's undersecretary for preparedness, not assistant
secretary.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Alex Wong -- Getty Images; Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff defends slowing some of the department's programs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 8, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 491 words

FEDERAL COURT

Woodbridge Man Admits Stealing $1 Million in TSA Equipment

A Woodbridge man pleaded guilty yesterday to stealing more than $1 million worth
of Transportation Security Administration equipment from a government warehouse,
prosecutors said.

Robert J. Hill, 29, entered his plea to charges of theft of government property
and unlawful possession of a firearm in U.S. District Court in Alexandria. He
faces up to 20 years in prison when sentenced May 23.

Prosecutors said Hill stole the information technology equipment last year from
a General Services Administration warehouse in Springfield, where he worked as a
contractor.

-- Jerry Markon

Ex-Official at Immigration Agency Sentenced in Harboring Case

A former top official for the agency that processes immigration applications was
sentenced to one year in prison yesterday for harboring an illegal immigrant at
his Centreville home.

Lloyd W. Miner, 49, was convicted in December by a federal jury in Alexandria of
allowing the woman to live with him, paying her expenses and providing her with
perks, including a black convertible with Fraternal Order of Police license
plates personalized with her name. Miner is a former deputy assistant chief of
internal affairs at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, where his job was
to ferret out corruption in his office.

"Mr. Miner disregarded the very immigration laws he was sworn to uphold," U.S.
Attorney Chuck Rosenberg said in a statement after the sentencing.

-- Jerry Markon

FAIRFAX COUNTY

3 Charged in Foiled Robbery After Machetes, Shotgun Found

A plainclothes police detail defused a potentially violent situation in southern
Fairfax County last week when it stopped three men armed with machetes and a
shotgun who intended to commit a robbery, Fairfax police said yesterday.

Shortly before midnight Feb. 29, officers from the Mount Vernon neighborhood
patrol unit saw a man leave the Mexico Lindo restaurant on Richmond Highway,
drive away and return with two other men, Fairfax Officer Eddy J. Azcarate said.

The officers stopped the car near Lukens Lane and found a shotgun, machetes and
ski masks, and Azcarate said the men intended to rob someone in the restaurant.
Alexis R. Carrillo and Cristobal Caballero, both 18, and a 17-year-old male were
charged with conspiracy to commit robbery and conspiracy to use a firearm in a
felony, court records say.

-- Tom Jackman

LOUDOUN COUNTY

Herndon Man Hits Utility Boxes, Cutting Power in Sterling

A Herndon man caused a power outage in the Countryside area of Sterling after
his car struck two Dominion Virginia Power utility boxes Thursday night, the
Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said yesterday.

Bryan J. Payne, 29, left the scene of the crash but contacted the sheriff's
office yesterday. Payne told authorities he lost control of his Dodge Neon when
he swerved to miss a deer near Countryside Boulevard and Carrollton Road. He was
charged with reckless driving.

-- Bill Brubaker

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Agency Arrests 34 Workers At Construction Firm

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 544 words


Federal immigration authorities converged on a Prince William County
construction company just before sunrise yesterday, arresting 34 Latin American
nationals for being in the country illegally.

Workplace raids are rare in the Washington area, and the roundup at CMC Concrete
Construction in the Manassas area appears to be the largest in the region in
nearly two years, according to a review of news releases on the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement Web site.

The workers -- who come from Guatemala, Mexico, Honduras, Costa Rica and El
Salvador -- are being charged administratively and are in ICE custody undergoing
deportation proceedings, said Ernestine Fobbs, a spokeswoman for the customs
agency.

News of the arrests spread quickly through an immigrant community already on
edge after a county law took effect this month allowing Prince William police to
check the immigration status of people stopped for other infractions.

Fobbs said the agency had executed two search warrants in connection with the
operation. Because those warrants were under seal, Fobbs said, she could not
discuss how or why the company had drawn federal attention, nor confirm that CMC
Concrete Construction was the agency's target.

James Rybicki, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of
Virginia, said no employers had been charged. But he added, "Obviously, we'll be
reviewing the case for possible criminal charges."

Public records identify Felisberto J. Magalhaes as the president of CMC and
Maria Brandao Magalhaes as its secretary and treasurer. A relative of the owners
who entered the company's administrative suite in a Manassas office complex
yesterday afternoon to meet with several ICE agents declined to comment.

A few miles away, at a large lot where CMC workers come to pick up  equipment
before heading out to job sites each day, about a dozen remaining workers stood
in groups discussing the morning's events.

A 32-year-old Mexican man, who asked that his name not be published for fear of
retaliation from his bosses or the government, said he and three others had
driven off the lot in one of the company's pickup trucks when they noticed a
silver van behind them flashing police lights.

"We thought maybe we had run a light or there was something wrong with the
plates -- we figured at worst we were going to get a traffic ticket," he said.

Instead, the man said, an armed immigration agent leaned in the window and
demanded identification.

"Everyone grew very quiet. We were horribly sad, but more than anything,
resigned," the man said.

He said agents were able to retrieve records demonstrating that CMC had
successfully sponsored him for legal permanent residency years ago. But he said
two colleagues in the truck had no such proof to offer and were handcuffed,
along with five workers riding in a pickup behind them.

Minutes after the roadside detentions, other workers said, immigration agency
vehicles entered the lot and more than a dozen agents fanned out in pursuit of
several fleeing workers.

When the Mexican worker finally reached the lot, he learned that his younger
brother was among those taken away.

"You feel so impotent, to see someone you know, who is just trying to work, go
through this and to not be able to help him," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. to Stop Green Card Denials for Dissidents

BYLINE: Karen DeYoung; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 886 words


The U.S. immigration service said yesterday that it will temporarily stop
denying green cards to refugees and other legal immigrants tied to groups that
sought to topple foreign dictatorships,  placing their cases on hold while it
determines more "logical, common-sense" rules for judging them.

The decision will potentially affect thousands of pending applications for
permanent U.S. residence. The cases of hundreds of others who have been denied
green cards since December will also be reexamined, said Jonathan "Jock"
Scharfen, deputy director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. All the
applicants are living in this country under refugee or other visa provisions or
political asylum.

Most of the applications involve people linked to groups that U.S. immigration
and counterterrorism laws have defined as "undesignated terrorist organizations"
because they took armed action against a foreign government. The groups include
U.S. allies that  fought against former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and the
Taliban government in Afghanistan, as well as Burma's military junta and Sudan's
Islamic leaders.

Scharfen said that USCIS recognized the illogic of admitting immigrants under
one provision of the law and then labeling them terrorists for green card
purposes, calling it a "very good question." At the same time, he said, the
restrictions are "written so that the definition of a terrorist organization and
activity is very, very broad." Even groups that have been "closely associated
with the United States," such as Montagnard tribesmen who fought with U.S.
forces in Vietnam, "fall under the definitions."

In addition to the Immigration and Nationality Act, restrictions are contained
in the 2001 USA Patriot Act and the 2005 Real ID Act. The laws, Scharfen said,
"cover groups that are opposed to the government. Any government."

Although there are waiver provisions, they are cumbersome and rarely used.
Denials and delays in processing applications -- with determinations made by the
Department of Homeland Security and the State Department -- have been sharply
criticized by many in Congress and by nongovernmental immigration groups.

"USCIS is right to review such cases, especially for people in Iraq and
Afghanistan who have helped the U.S. and suffered persecution for doing so,"
said Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who chairs the Judiciary Committee's
subcommittee on immigration. "It would be tragic to prevent such people from
receiving the full protection of our immigration laws because of a harsh
interpretation of laws that should be used to go after true terrorists."

The catalyst for yesterday's decision, Scharfen and other officials said, was a
Washington Post article last weekend about a translator for U.S. forces in Iraq.
Saman Kareem Ahmad, 38, arrived in the United States under a special visa
program for those assisting the nation's war effort, after his life was
threatened in Iraq. He had received commendations from the secretary of the Navy
and then-Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, now the top U.S. commander in Iraq, as
well as strong support from Marine and Army officers with whom he had worked.
Ahmad was later granted political asylum, but his application for permanent
residence was denied last month on grounds he had once served with Kurdish
military forces that fought against Hussein.

The USCIS letter denying Ahmad's petition said that the Kurdistan Democratic
Party forces fit the definition of terrorist, based on information it had
gleaned from public Web sites, because KDP forces "conducted full-scale armed
attacks and helped incite rebellions against Hussein's regime, most notably
during the Iran-Iraq war, Operation Desert Storm and Operation Iraqi Freedom."

The KDP, a U.S. ally, is now part of the elected Iraqi government, and Ahmad
teaches Arabic language and culture at the Marine Corps base in Quantico and
other military facilities, working with Marines who are about to deploy to Iraq.
Although the letter said the denial could not be appealed, Scharfen said
yesterday that Ahmad's case is now "under review" and should be resolved "in a
matter of days."

Until recently, waivers were narrowly allowed for those who had involuntarily
aided  "Tier III," or "undesignated," terrorist groups -- such as kidnapping
victims or those forced under threat to provide assistance. Legislation passed
in  December broadened the waiver provisions to include people who, under
certain circumstances, had received military training or participated in violent
actions.

DHS and the State Department, Scharfen said, will now identify groups that may
be eligible for exemption. "We've recognized there are issues that need to be
addressed in a logical, common-sense fashion so that we can apply the exemptions
that the law provides." He said they  will "start making a list" of groups from
Iraq, Afghanistan, Sudan, Ethiopia and other countries.

"There are lots of groups around the world," Scharfen said, adding that "it
could be a cumbersome process." But "all of us have this as a priority," he
said. "We want to do this in a way that is careful and deliberate, but also with
efficiency and dispatch." He said that USCIS planned to announce the hold placed
on pending applications on its Web site and that the agency would notify those
whose denials are being reviewed.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Bill O'leary -- The Washignton Post; Saman Kareem Ahmad, who
helped U.S. forces in Iraq, was denied residency.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

59 Immigrant Hotel Workers Arrested in Raid at Va. Hotel

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 441 words


Federal immigration officials said they arrested 59 foreign-born workers in a
raid yesterday at the Lansdowne Resort in Loudoun County. The officials said the
detainees, all from Latin America, were suspected of having used fraudulent or
stolen documents to obtain jobs at the hotel and golf resort.

Mark McGraw, a senior regional official with U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said in a statement that the raid was part of a "nationwide
aggressive pursuit of unauthorized workers and employers who violate the law."
Companies that use "cheap, illegal alien labor as a business model should be on
notice that ICE is dramatically enhancing its enforcement efforts," he said.

Immigration officials could not be reached to confirm details of the raid, but a
spokesman for the Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said last night that its
officers had assisted in an ICE operation at Lansdowne. The spokesman, Kraig
Troxell, also said there had been reports of buses taking groups of people away
from the site.

The raid occurred less than three weeks after ICE officials raided a
construction company office in Prince William County, arresting 34 Latin
American nationals on suspicion of being in the United States illegally. The two
operations appear to have been the largest workplace raids conducted by
immigration authorities in the Washington region in the past two years.

Employees at Lansdowne, reached by phone last night, said they had no comment
and would not confirm whether the raid had taken place. The resort on Woodridge
Parkway offers convention facilities, golf tournaments and tours of nearby
wineries.

In a written statement, ICE officials said the agency's officers questioned more
than 100 workers at the resort yesterday after a lengthy investigation of
employment documents and practices there.

The statement said 59 men and women from El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico,
Honduras, Bolivia, Peru and Argentina were taken into custody for immigration
violations and would probably be processed for deportation. It said two other
women had been released for humanitarian reasons and that family members could
call 866-341-3858 for information about those detained.

Immigrant advocacy groups and lawyers in the Washington area said they had not
been contacted by any detainees or their relatives, but several groups said they
were concerned that the raids would increase a climate of fear among legal and
illegal immigrants.

ICE officials did not say whether action would be taken against the managers or
owners of the resort, which is operated by Benchmark Hospitality International.

Staff writer Bill Brubaker contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Citing Agency Officials' Actions After Party, Panel Asks for Probes

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 626 words


A House panel is calling for  independent investigations of whether senior U.S.
immigration enforcement officials violated federal laws after they honored a
white agency employee dressed as an escaped black prisoner at an office
Halloween party.

Julie L. Myers, head of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), last
fall acknowledged ordering the destruction of photographs of the worker, who was
given a "most original costume award" at an ICE charity event Oct. 31 by a
three-judge panel that included Myers.

In a report released Tuesday, the House Homeland Security Committee, chaired by
Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), concluded that Myers also ordered the
relocation of the worker from ICE headquarters in Washington.

The steps "appeared to be an attempt to conceal her actions from the public
disclosure," which might have harmed Myers's chances for confirmation by the
Senate, the committee said. Myers was approved in December.

Myers apologized to ICE workers in an e-mail Nov. 2. She said she learned only
the day after the party that the man was wearing makeup, but acknowledged the
costume could convey disrespect toward immigrants whom ICE detains. The agency
runs a 32,000-bed detention system.

ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said the worker was detailed to Washington on a
short-term assignment, then placed on administrative leave and returned to his
field office post "because it was felt he was not using good judgment in the
costume he chose to wear."

Myers "communicated with ICE employees days before the incident was reported in
the media or before there was a congressional inquiry, and to suggest there was
some sort of a cover-up is completely without merit," Nantel said. "We operated
with 100 percent transparency."

Laura Keehner, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security, of which
ICE is a part, said that "we will review Chairman Thompson's recommendations,
but note that the report is fundamentally flawed and highly partisan."

The worker, whom officials have declined to identify citing his "personal
privacy," wore dreadlocks and dark makeup and described himself as a detainee
from ICE's facility in Miami, the report said.

"I'm a Jamaican detainee from Krome -- obviously, I've escaped," he told the
judges, who responded with laughter, the report stated.

Myers told lawmakers last fall that within minutes of leaving the party, she
recognized that she had made "an error in judgment." She said she told her chief
of staff to direct the event photographer to delete all photographs of the
employee so they would not be inadvertently published. The images were recovered
after a news organization filed a Freedom of Information Act request.

Thompson's report recommended that the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission investigate whether the costume award contributed to "a hostile work
environment" at ICE; that the Office of Special Counsel examine whether ICE
disciplinary actions broke federal personnel rules; and that an independent
official determine whether ordering the destruction of photographs was illegal.

Nantel said it was not ICE's place to respond to those recommendations, but she
noted that the agency cooperated fully with an internal Homeland Security
Department review. She said that under Myers's leadership, the number of EEO
complaints alleging retaliation fell  from 105 in 2006 to 29 last year.

The House panel cited the Office of Personnel Management's Web site in reporting
that, as of March 2007, none of ICE's 28 Senior Executive Service employees were
African Americans.  Nantel said the actual number was two, or 4 percent.

Myers has been supported by Homeland Security's National Association of
African-Americans  and the American Federation of Government Employees, Nantel
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Immigration And Customs Enforcement Agency; This photo from a
2007 party showed then-Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security Julie Myers with
the co-worker who won "most original costume."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Police Worry Immigrants' Help in Cases Will Dry Up

BYLINE: Dan Morse; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1162 words


Of all the notable details in Montgomery County's latest murder trial -- a
telltale sandwich left in a Chevy Chase refrigerator, a smoldering body 18 miles
away, a delusional suspect who claimed that the slain man's watch was about to
explode -- perhaps nothing stands out more than this: Detectives might not have
cracked the case without the help of an immigrant day laborer they know only as
Sam.

The case illustrates precisely the type of cooperation that might be diminished
if police are asked to step up enforcement of immigration laws, some law
enforcement officials said. The trial ended this month with the conviction of a
Honduran immigrant in the slaying of a carpenter who had hired him.

"Without the cooperation of that day laborer, that murder goes unsolved,"
Montgomery State's Attorney John McCarthy said. "It's that pure and simple."

Many officials say that if police increase enforcement of immigration laws, it
will boost public safety overall. But law enforcement leaders in Montgomery and
parts of Northern Virginia aren't so sure, fearing that it might intimidate
witnesses and victims. The departments are attempting to assure immigrants that
cooperating with police will not lead to deportation.

A recent public-service announcement on  cable television in Montgomery featured
Police Chief J. Thomas Manger and Jaime Moreno, a native of Bolivia who plays
for Washington's professional soccer team, D.C. United.

"Don't be afraid to call police!" they say in unison.

In Prince William County, an ordinance that took effect last month requires
police to check the residency status of crime suspects, even those detained for
traffic offenses, if officers think they might be in the country illegally.

Anecdotally, the policy appears to be making police work more challenging, said
1st Sgt. Kim Chinn, a county police spokeswoman. Several days ago, she said,
officers had trouble identifying a body found in the woods because the dead
man's family would not cooperate, Chinn said.

Police Chief Charlie T. Deane, who last year warned that such a policy could
have "a potential chilling effect," has been speaking  to community groups and
through Spanish-language media, telling them that victims and witnesses will be
protected regardless of their status.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the county supervisors and a leading proponent of
increasing  police enforcement of immigration laws, conceded that some witnesses
or victims might be hesitant to cooperate.

"It's complicated and difficult," he said, "but the benefits to public safety
far outweigh the drawbacks. . . . Not all illegal immigrants come here just to
work."

Montgomery is among jurisdictions that don't have such policies, but officials
worry that crime victims and witnesses might assume it does.

The Montgomery murder trial centered on events that took place in August 2005 at
a home on a quiet street in Chevy Chase.

The homeowners had arranged to have their wood floors refinished by Hak Bong
Kim, a Korean immigrant and carpenter, while they were traveling. They returned
to find the work incomplete. Kim, 55, was missing, and there were spots of blood
in the house, including the interior of an oven.

In the refrigerator, police officers found a bag from a 7-Eleven store. The
contents: two pre-made submarine sandwiches, a bottle of Coke, a bottle of
Gatorade and two plastic packages of Crack N' Snack hard-boiled eggs. Outside
the house, the covering for a barbecue grill was missing.

Meanwhile, in Fairfax County, another investigation was underway after the
discovery of a body in the woods. Michael Schatz, a 29-year resident of
Annandale, was walking his mixed-breed border collie outside his townhouse.
Something caught the dog's attention, and soon Schatz saw a dark mass that he
initially took for an animal.

"As I got closer, I realized it wasn't an animal," Schatz testified in Circuit
Court, his voice trembling.

Schatz called 911, reporting that he had found a burnt human body.

Back in Montgomery, Detective Patrick McNerney heard about the body. He learned
from Dennis Harris, a Fairfax detective, that an odd material had been found
next to it.

"Could it be a grill cover?" McNerney asked Harris, according to both
detectives' recollections.

At the Chevy Chase house, detectives went to work on the contents of the
refrigerator.

They learned that the missing carpenter in the past had picked up day laborers
at a 7-Eleven in Annandale. Sales records from the convenience store pinpointed
the date and time that the particular combination of items -- subs, Coke,
Gatorade and eggs -- was sold.

Soon detectives were watching a video surveillance recording of the cash
register at the moment of the transaction. They spotted a Korean man, who looked
like Kim, and a shorter Hispanic man.

Detectives captured the image and copied it onto a flier printed in Spanish,
which was distributed in the area of the convenience store.

The first break came from Sam, a day laborer who told an officer that he knew
the man pictured on the flier. Sam -- detectives never learned his last name --
led them to a man who said he believed  he knew where the suspect was staying.

At that townhouse development, the detectives eventually spotted the suspect
approaching on a bicycle. Carlos Bustamante-Mendieta soon confessed, police
said.

He also told investigators that he believed Kim's watch was going to explode and
that he had once seen Kim in his native Honduras, police said.
Bustamante-Mendieta was later described by his attorney as schizophrenic.

Detectives pieced together the gruesome details. At the Chevy Chase job site,
Kim apparently caught the suspect trying to steal jewelry and confronted him.
Bustamante-Mendieta stabbed the carpenter seven times and then tried to stuff
him into the oven. Bustamante-Mendieta placed Kim's body in the grill cover and
drove to Annandale, where he dug a shallow grave, doused the body in gasoline
and set it on fire.

On April 2, Bustamante-Mendieta, 32, was convicted of first-degree murder. Sam,
who was not asked to testify, refused to accept a $1,000 reward, detectives
said.

Such cooperation might already be waning, even if stepped-up enforcement is in
other jurisdictions, according to Detective John Vickery, a Spanish-speaking
Fairfax officer. "I've seen the hesitation," he said. "It affects how I do my
cases."

But 1st Lt. Richard Perez, another Spanish-speaking officer in Fairfax, said the
department as a whole appears to be getting the same level of cooperation as
before. Perez attributes that in large part to outreach efforts at day laborers'
gatherings, Latino churches and business groups and in Spanish-language  media.

After this month's verdict in Montgomery, the state's attorney asked Marybeth
Ayres, one of the prosecutors in the case, whether Sam, the pivotal day laborer,
was in the country legally.

"By the way, what's his status?" McCarthy asked.

"I don't know," she answered.

That, McCarthy said of such a helpful source, is just the point.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; A tip led police to homicide murder suspect Carlos
Bustamante-Mendieta.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 10, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Agency's Message: No Reason To Fear Us;
Dec. 1 Forum Aims To Debunk Myths

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 377 words


The Northern Virginia office of the federal agency that processes immigration
applications will hold its first public forum next month to answer questions
from immigrants.

The forum also is intended to spread word that the agency, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, or USCIS, is distinct from its feared federal cousins, the
Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE.

"We don't want people to fear us," said Greg Christian, director of the Vienna
office of USCIS. "We want to debunk the myths of USCIS and help people
understand that we're here to provide a service."

The agency is often assailed by applicants and immigration lawyers as an
impenetrable bureaucracy with complicated forms and a help hotline that
dispenses unreliable information. It has also recently been under fire for
raising application fees.

But USCIS does not arrest illegal immigrants. That is usually the province of
ICE or U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which also are divisions of the
Department of Homeland Security. Immigrants often confuse the agencies,
Christian said.

Officials will explain the differences at the meeting Dec. 1 at Cornerstone
Evangelical Free Church in Annandale, Christian said. They also will discuss the
applications and where to find information online.

The event is open to the first 350 people who reserve a spot and will be most
helpful for people whose petitions would be processed by the Vienna office.
Those include D.C. and Virginia residents applying for permanent residency or
citizenship, sponsoring relatives or adopting a foreign child.

Christian said "there is nothing stopping" illegal immigrants from attending and
said ICE officials have assured him they will not raid the event. The agency
wants to hold more forums, he said, and a raid at the first one would doom the
plan.

"That's also a reason we are holding it at a church. It connotes sanctuary," he
said.

The event will be held in English. Those wishing to attend must RSVP and submit
questions to the D.C.-based National African Immigrant Resource Center, the
forum's sponsor, by Nov. 21.

"How to Do Business With USCIS," 11:30 a.m. Dec. 1 at Cornerstone Evangelical
Free Church, 3901 Gallows Rd., Annandale. RSVP to nationalafricanirc@yahoo.com
or 703-439-9570.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 17, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 469 words

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Illegal-Immigration Policy Under Review

The Virginia advisory committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights will
review Prince William County's illegal-immigration crackdown to determine if it
is discriminatory.

The panel has invited local officials and advocacy groups and others to appear
at the county government headquarters Dec. 14.State advisory committees assist
the commission with fact-finding and investigation.

-- Kristen Mack

11TH DISTRICT

Denneny Seeking Democratic Nod

Doug Denneny, a retired Navy commander, has kicked off his campaign for the
Democratic nomination in the 11th Congressional District, which includes parts
of Fairfax and Prince William counties.

In events this week, Denneny said his background and positions make him the best
choice to replace Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), who has not said if he will
seek reelection.

Denneny is calling for an immediate end to the Iraq war , universal access to
health care and more federal help for Northern Virginia's traffic problems.

Denneny, an Iraq war veteran, works for Boeing. Former Democratic
representative Leslie L. Byrne is also a candidate.

-- Tim Craig

ARLINGTON COUNTY

Credit Card Theft At Health Club

Arlington County police said yesterday that three young men broke into a locker
at the Ballston Sport and Health Club and stole credit cards that were later
used to buy things in at least 10 locations at Tyson's Corner Center mall.

The suspects used false e-mail accounts with fake information to obtain
temporary passes to the health club, police said.

On Nov. 1, the three picked a lock at the club and stole credit cards from a
member's locker, they said.

Call 866-411-TIPS (8477) with information.

-- Daniela Deane

OPEN BURNING

Kaine Lifts Ban After Fire Season

Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) this week lifted a statewide ban on open burning,
implemented Oct. 19 because of concerns about wildfires in the wake of dry
conditions.

"The statewide ban on open burning helped reduce the immediate threat to
citizens and their property," Kaine said.

During the six-week fall fire season, 118 fires in Virginia burned a total of
855 acres. At least 18 of those fires were caused by people violating the burn
ban.

Local burning restrictions might still apply. Check with local fire department
or fire marshal's office before proceeding.

Tips on how to reduce the danger of an open-air fire can be found at
http://www.dof.virginia.gov.

-- Anita Kumar

WEATHER

Region's Dry Spell Might be Waning

In a sign that the area's dry spell might be ending, measurable rain fell at
Reagan National Airport on seven  days so far this month, and a trace was
reported on two other days.

In addition, the .73 inches that fell at Dulles International Airport on
Thursday set a record. The old mark was .38 inches set in 1983.

-- Martin Weil

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Hispanics Feeling Heat Of Immigration Debate;
Survey Finds Majority Feel Vulnerable

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 687 words


Regardless of their immigration status, Hispanics across the United States are
feeling anxious and discriminated against amid the intensifying debate over
immigration and stepped-up enforcement by authorities, according to a study of
the nation's largest minority group released yesterday.

More than half of the 2,003 Hispanic adults surveyed by the nonpartisan Pew
Hispanic Center said they worry that they or a close friend or family member
might be deported, and nearly two-thirds believed that Congress's failure to
pass a bill restructuring immigration law this year has made life more difficult
for all Latinos.

"What we have here is a portrait of a population that is feeling vulnerable in
the current political and policy climate," said Paul Taylor, acting director of
the Pew Hispanic Center. "And what's interesting is that it's not just true of
the foreign born but of the native born, including many people who have been
here for generations."

Though the federal government has substantially increased enforcement actions
such as workplace raids over the past five years, the numbers arrested through
such actions remain infinitesimal compared to the almost 8 million undocumented
immigrants in the workforce.

Nonetheless, noted Taylor, "as part of tried and true enforcement policy, a
number of raids in the last year or so have been very high profile. . . . So in
some ways, the actual numbers [arrested] may underestimate the changed reality
as it is perceived by people in the Latino community."

The poll also found significant differences between Latinos' and non-Latinos'
opinions on the recent crackdown, including efforts by state and local
governments.

For instance, 20 percent of Hispanics approved of workplace raids, compared with
51 percent of non-Hispanics; 14 percent of Hispanics approved of local police
taking an active role in immigration enforcement, while non-Hispanics were
evenly divided on the issue; and 40 percent of Hispanics approved of states
checking immigration status before issuing driver's licenses, compared with 85
percent of non-Hispanics.

Latinos, who number 44 million and account for 15 percent of the U.S.
population, are a diverse group: Almost half of adults are U.S.-born, less than
a third are foreign-born but in the country legally, and about a quarter are
illegal immigrants.

Though less substantial than the difference in views between Latinos and
non-Latinos, the study revealed significant gaps within the Hispanic community
on a range of topics.

For example, 82 percent of foreign-born Hispanics believed that illegal
immigrants help the economy, compared with 64 percent of native-born Hispanics.
Still, that is up from five years ago, when 54 percent of native-born Hispanics
said the impact of illegal immigrants was positive. It is also substantially
higher than the 40 percent of non-Hispanics with a favorable view of illegal
immigrants' effect on the economy.

Similarly, noncitizen Latinos -- who account for 39 percent of the adult
Hispanic population -- were twice as likely as Latinos who are U.S. citizens to
worry about deportation and to feel a negative personal impact from the
heightened attention.

Among the Latinos who reported experiencing discrimination, which is about half
overall, 12 percent said they have had more trouble getting or keeping a job; 15
percent said they have had increased difficulty finding or keeping housing; 19
percent said they have been asked to produce documents to prove their
immigration status more often than in the past; 22 percent said they are less
likely to use government services; and 24 percent said they are less likely to
travel abroad.

More than half of Latinos surveyed said that discrimination is a major problem
keeping them from succeeding in the United States -- up from 44 percent in 2002,
though slightly down from 58 percent in 2006. But there was no clear consensus
on whether their overall situation in the United States has gotten better or
worse over the past year.

Despite their anxieties over immigration, Latinos surveyed said they are
generally content with their lives and upbeat about the future.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

U.S. Accuses Bosnian Refugee of War Crimes

BYLINE: The Seattle Times

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


A man who gained refuge and later citizenship in Canada after fleeing Bosnia 10
years ago has been accused by U.S. immigration authorities of being a war
criminal.

An immigration judge in Tacoma, Wash., has ordered Bozo Jozepovic, 41, deported
to Canada and barred permanently from the  United States. Officials  said they
plan to bring this status to the attention of the Canadian government.

Jozepovic is a Croat who was born in Bosnia and fled that country with his
pregnant wife and child, obtaining status as refugees in Canada in 1997. Canada
granted him citizenship three years ago.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement  officials  said they have evidence
Jozepovic is a former member of the Croatian Defense Council, or the HVO, which
was involved in ethnic cleansing during fighting in Bosnia-Herzegovina in the
early 1990s.

Specifically, they link him to the 1993 killings of seven Muslim men in the
village of Poljani.

Jozepovic's attorney, Len Saunders, said his client is not a war criminal and
that U.S. government documents  show Jozepovic  was not in the armed forces and
is not being sought by the Bosnian government.

Several top military and political leaders of the HVO have been tracked down and
indicted on war-crime charges.

"My client is concerned that if he's accused of war crimes, people would believe
it," Saunders said. "There's nothing that I've seen that says my client has
committed these crimes."

As a long-haul truck driver for the past 10 years, Jozepovic repeatedly entered
the United States.

But twice last year -- in May and June -- he was denied entry at border
crossings in Washington state based on information in an international database
that flagged him as a potential human rights violator.

In the June stop, Jozepovic was ordered to appear before a U.S. immigration
judge, charged with human rights abuse, fraud and trying to immigrate to the
United States without a visa.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A Talent Contest We're Losing

BYLINE: Craig Barrett

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 686 words


The European Union took a step recently that the U.S. Congress can't seem to
muster the courage to take. By proposing a simple change in immigration policy,
E.U. politicians served notice that they are serious about competing with the
United States and Asia to attract the world's top talent to live, work and
innovate in Europe. With Congress gridlocked on immigration, it's clear that the
next Silicon Valley will not be in the United States.

European politicians face many of the same political pressures surrounding
immigration as their U.S. counterparts, and they, too, are not immune to those
pressures. Nationalist and anti-immigrant factions in several Western European
countries have made political gains in recent elections and are widely viewed as
mainstream. Despite the hot-button nature of immigration issues, though, E.U.
politicians advanced the "Blue Card" proposal in late October.

The plan is designed to attract highly educated workers by creating a temporary
but renewable two-year visa. A streamlined application process would allow
qualified prospective workers to navigate the system and start working in
high-need jobs within one to three months.

This contrasts starkly with the byzantine system in place in the United States,
which increasingly threatens America's long-term competitiveness.

The United States relies primarily on two programs to augment its workforce with
highly educated, highly skilled foreign professionals. The H-1B visa is a
three-year temporary visa that can be renewed once. The employment-based (EB)
green card is the program for permanent residency. Both programs serve the needs
of U.S. employers seeking to fill job vacancies in highly skilled professions.
Extreme shortages of visas in both these programs are well documented.

H-1B visas, which are capped at 85,000 per year, are now gone in one day, with
the "winners" determined by lottery.

The EB green card program has an annual allotment of 140,000 visas; these are
allocated equally across all countries around the world, regardless of
population. The inflexible country quotas mean that professionals from countries
such as China and India are almost always at a disadvantage, finding themselves
stuck in a system -- often for five to 10 years -- in which they cannot seek
promotions and raises. Spouses and children count against the quota, which has
not been raised since 1990. And even though they count against the quota of
foreign workers allowed to come here, spouses are inexplicably forbidden to
work, no matter their level of education and skill.

The U.S. system forces thousands of valuable foreign-born professionals --
including badly needed researchers, scientists, teachers and engineers -- into
legal and professional limbo for years. Not surprisingly, many are considering
opportunities in competitor nations -- even those who have lived in the United
States for years and have graduated from American universities.

To be competitive in the global economy, U.S. companies depend on specialized
talent coming out of U.S. graduate schools. These scientists and engineers are
often foreign-born, as more than half of U.S. engineering master's students and
PhD recipients are international students. Yet  America shuts the door on many
of these highly educated graduates, forcing them to look abroad for
opportunities -- and our competitors are capitalizing on our failed policies.

E.U. leaders recognize that the top minds coming out of universities in the
United States and other countries can help to reinvigorate European industry and
enable it to create the next wave of businesses that drive innovation and
economic growth.

While its Blue Card proposal still requires approval by member countries, Europe
has sent a message. It intends to aggressively pursue the professional talent
necessary to compete on the global stage. The United States, on the other hand,
seems intent on driving away the very same talent the European Union is rolling
out the red carpet to welcome.

The writer is chairman of Intel Corp., which employs about 2,000 employees with
H-1B visas among its 86,000 workers worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Girl in Custody Case to Go to China;
Still Adjusting to Birth Family, 8-Year-Old Faces New Challenge

BYLINE: Woody Baird; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 594 words


MEMPHIS -- An 8-year-old girl taken from an American couple and returned to her
Chinese parents earlier this year after a seven-year custody fight now faces
another big adjustment: moving to China.

With the Tennessee courts having finally settled the custody fight over Anna Mae
He, her family faces deportation, and her father says it is time to head home to
China.

"Next month, we're going to do the paperwork with a federal immigration judge,"
Shaoqiang He said at his family's small, two-bedroom apartment on the outskirts
of Memphis.

Anna grew up with an American couple who took her in as an infant to help her
financially strapped parents, Shaoqiang and Qin Luo He, and then refused to give
her back. In January, the state Supreme Court ordered her returned to the Hes.

Shaoqiang He came to Tennessee to attend graduate school at the University of
Memphis, but his student visa expired years ago. An immigration judge agreed
four years ago to delay ruling on the Hes' immigration status because of the
custody fight, which began in May 2000.

"If deported, we might never come back again," He said. "With a voluntary
departure, we don't get an order. We turn ourselves in."

He said he expects to return to China by the end of February. A Memphis church,
New Sardis Baptist, has begun a fund drive to help pay for the family's move.

Ashok Kara, a family psychologist working with the Hes on Anna's transition,
said  the girl is warming toward her parents and gets along well with brother,
Andy, 7, and sister, Avita, 5.

"At least on the surface, things are moving in a very positive direction. She's
happy. She talks. She laughs. She jokes," Kara said. "Although beneath the
surface where things are not easily observed, we don't quite know what's going
on."

A third-grader, Anna earned all top marks on her latest report card. "She
participates well when called up," her teacher wrote. "I enjoy having her in
class."

Former foster parents Jerry and Louise Baker won a court order five years ago
barring the Hes from any contact with Anna, so she is still just getting to know
her parents and siblings. But piled up on a living room sofa one recent evening
to watch TV cartoons, Anna, Andy and Avita shared the easy laughter of
comfortable playmates.

Anna ignored questions about China or the pending move, focusing instead on the
TV and a book of children's poetry called "Falling Up."

She did find time, though, to occasionally poke Andy in the side with a foot,
setting off bouts of giggling.

"She has been learning Chinese, but she's a little bit afraid of the language,"
her father said. "She told me it's very difficult this language. But she's
becoming more curious about China. She asks about the schools, the teachers, the
children, what's the subjects that are taught."

The Bakers, a suburban Memphis couple with four children of their own, were
introduced to the Hes through a private foster-care organization. They
volunteered to take Anna in for a few months but decided later to adopt her,
even though the Hes wanted her back.

The Bakers accused the Hes of being unfit parents and argued that Anna would
have a better life in  the United States than in China.

In 2004, a Memphis judge took away the Hes' parental rights on grounds of
abandonment, a decision that drew widespread criticism as culturally and
ethnically biased.

The Tennessee Supreme Court ruled the Hes thought they were giving up their
daughter for a short time so she could get health insurance and lost custody
largely because of an ignorance of  U.S. law. It ordered the family to be
reunited.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Greg Campbell -- Associated Press; Anna Mae He had lived
apart from her Chinese parents until this year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Clients Get Help Understanding Immigration Rules;
Clients Get Help Understanding Immigration Rules

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C12

LENGTH: 547 words


Allison Rutland Soulen is a lawyer. Some lawyers work in large offices with
fancy furniture and beautiful views.  Rutland Soulen  works out of the basement
of an Arlington church. Often her clients can't afford to pay for her legal
help, but that's okay with her. She doesn't charge much, if anything.

Eleven years ago Rutland Soulen  co-founded Just Neighbors, a group that
provides legal services to immigrants and educates the community. Immigration
law is very complex. There are many rules about who can and cannot live in this
country, and that can make it difficult for people to know and understand their
options.

"I wanted to help people who otherwise wouldn't have access to the help," says
Rutland Soulen, 47.

As a kid, she didn't know what she wanted to be when she grew up. She majored in
English at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia, and then taught high school in
Georgia. That was when she realized that many people needed legal aid and
couldn't afford it.

So Rutland Soulen went to law school for three years at Yale University in
Connecticut.

Many businesses, including sports teams and newspapers, need lawyers. So does
the government. Some attorneys prosecute crimes; others defend the accused. Some
lawyers specialize in civil cases such as divorces. And some, including Rutland
Soulen, help people who don't have a lot of money.

Rutland Soulen does not make as much money as other lawyers do -- she is paid
through donations to Just Neighbors -- but she says she loves her job. Besides
helping others, she likes that her three children, the oldest of whom is 12, can
sometimes come to work with her.

After law school, Rutland Soulen clerked in Connecticut for a federal judge
(that's a job like being the principal's helper) and then worked at Neighborhood
Legal Services in Southeast Washington. She helped low-income people with their
legal problems.

She learned a lot about immigration law and continues to stay informed because
the rules are always changing. In 1996, she, another laywer and a pastor started
Just Neighbors.

"There is just an overwhelming need for this kind of service," she says.

Some of her clients are unable to read even in their own language, so it's
nearly impossible for them to figure out the forms they need to fill out, she
says.

The Just Neighbors staff -- an executive director, three attorneys and numerous
volunteers -- has helped people from more than 90 countries. Many are refugees
who fled wars, natural disasters or unstable governments. They are hoping to
become U.S. citizens and reunite their families.

Children often accompany their parents to Rutland Soulen's office, so she keeps
lots of stuffed animals around to give them. The first ones picked are usually
those that still have their tags.

"For many of our clients getting something new is very unusual," she says.

Rutland Soulen says that one of the most difficult parts of her job is that she
can't help everyone who comes to see her. Some immigrants don't have a legal way
to stay in the United States. Before she tells them that, though, Rutland Soulen
spends hours reading law books and reviewing other cases, looking for a way to
help.

Listening is an important part of being a lawyer, Rutland Soulen says: "For many
clients, you are their only ear."

-- Amy Orndorff

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Bill Webster -- The Washington Post

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Takes Dozens of Pr. William Detainees;
Immigration Effort Increased Costs, Crowding at Jail

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 541 words


More than 60 suspected illegal immigrants detained at the Prince William County
jail have been picked up by federal immigration authorities since Friday,
officials said yesterday.

The transfers follow complaints by county officials that crowding at the jail
had hit an all-time high because federal immigration officials were taking
weeks, not the agreed-upon 72 hours, to pick up suspected illegal immigrants.
The facility was spending $220,000 a month to house inmates elsewhere in the
state, officials said.

Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) wrote to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff
last week, asking that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement expedite the
transfers.

Col. Peter A. Meletis, the jail superintendent, said that local officials met
with ICE representatives last week and that federal officials pledged to speed
up the process.

ICE also established a designated day for retrieving inmates, he said.

"They decided to try and rectify the problem," Meletis said yesterday. "We are
cooperating and working with each other to solve it."

Prince William has detained more than 650 people since July, when the county
began residency checks of arrestees who are suspected of being in the country
illegally.

ICE agents are supposed to retrieve suspected illegal immigrants from the jail
within 72 hours of their release from county custody.

County officials have said that jail employees with immigration training are
working 60 hours a week and that the already-crowded jail is spending $3 million
a year on additional transportation and processing costs.

ICE officials have said they were unprepared for the influx of detainees.

At a Board of County Supervisors meeting this month, Mark X. McGraw, deputy
special agent in charge of ICE's Washington field office, said: "We've gotten
ahead of ourselves. We never expected that to happen as fast as it did."

Prince William jail facilities, which have space for 402 inmates, held an
average of 664 inmates a day in February.

An additional 275 were sent elsewhere in the state at a daily cost of $38 to $50
an inmate.

That unanticipated expense comes as the county struggles to cover a budget
shortfall and pay for the rising cost of immigration enforcement by its police
department.

A county police policy implemented last month directs officers to check a
suspect's residency, no matter how minor the infraction, if they think the
person is in the country illegally.

Under the partnership with ICE, known as a 287(g), jurisdictions can deputize
local law enforcement officials to assist ICE in processing illegal immigrants.

The local officers investigate arrestees who they think are illegal immigrants,
working with the federal agency to increase arrests and expedite deportation.

Since 2005, the number of state and local agencies participating in 287(g)
nationwide has increased from four to 47, including the Prince William jail and
the police departments in Prince William, Manassas and Herndon.

Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said he is pleased with ICE's
response.

"To their credit, ICE stepped up to the plate to address the problem," he said.
"We understand they have capacity restraints themselves. We are pleased they
have moved to eliminate the backlog of prisoners."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 21, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's Immigration Two-Step

BYLINE: Lee Hockstader

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Traumatized by a tidal wave of illegal immigrants, Arizona last year enacted the
nation's most pitiless law to punish employers who hire undocumented workers.
Now state lawmakers, having proved that they mean business -- even if it means
killing off businesses -- are reconnecting with reality: They want to import
Mexican workers.

No state has been as unhinged by illegal immigration as Arizona, where by some
estimates undocumented employees comprise up to 12 percent of the state's
workforce of 3 million, more than twice the national average. They have also
fueled Arizona's supercharged economy, which has grown faster -- and with less
unemployment -- than almost anywhere else in the country.

Recently I visited the north Phoenix neighborhood of Palomino, which was
virtually all white and Anglo 25 years ago. Today it is overwhelmingly Latino,
teeming with taco joints and home to the city's only day-labor center.

"You drive around, you can't even read the store signs or the billboards," said
James Cooney, a recently laid-off heavy equipment operator whom I found
picketing outside the day-labor center with a group of like-minded protesters,
some of them overtly racist. "It's an invasion."

That sentiment, plus Congress's failure to fix the nation's broken-down
immigration system, contributed to a sort of legislative temper tantrum in
Phoenix last summer. With little opposition, state lawmakers passed a bill to
penalize firms that knowingly hire undocumented workers by suspending their
business licenses for up to 10 days; on a second offense, the license is
revoked.

The resulting outcry from companies warning of severe labor shortages prompted
lawmakers to water down the bill somewhat, by, for instance, applying it only to
workers hired after Jan. 1 of this year. But they kept some provisions
businesses hated, including one allowing prosecutors to act on anonymous tips
about undocumented workers.

The law had the desired effect. Immigrant neighborhoods in Phoenix started
emptying out. Some employers called in suspect workers and fired those who
admitted lacking proper documents. In Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix,
Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who has cultivated an image as a Bull Connor for the
nativist crowd, took the law as a green light to round up and harass Hispanics.

Just as satisfying to many of the law's advocates, Arizona companies rushed to
register for E-Verify, the federal government's Internet-based system for
checking the employment eligibility of newly hired workers. Now some 25,000 are
signed up, more than in every other state combined. Lawmakers in Colorado,
Georgia and elsewhere began drafting legislation modeled on the Arizona law.

But despite a jobless rate that is creeping higher, it has dawned on lawmakers
that an enforcement-only strategy may inflict a lethal blow to state employers
in agriculture, hospitality, construction and other industries, all of which
have depended on a steady supply of low-skilled immigrant workers. And while the
economic slowdown has somewhat eased the demand for workers, especially in
construction, chances are slim that Arizona's economy will come roaring back
without an adequate labor supply.

So now, with far less fanfare, the legislature is pushing through a measure
calling for an Arizona-specific temporary guest-worker pilot program. The bill,
which has bipartisan backing, would relieve labor shortages in certain
industries by allowing qualifying companies to recruit workers in Mexico for a
two-year term of employment. That would need congressional or federal approval,
which, given recent history, may be problematic, to say the least.

In other words, having done its utmost to have undocumented Hispanics fired and
driven from the state, Arizona has now decided it badly needs low-skilled labor
after all. In both instances -- by getting tough with employers and by providing
for a future supply of legal guest workers -- the state is trying to achieve
what Congress could not.

That's the dilemma of the maddening national debate over immigration, which is
torn between seemingly irreconcilable political forces: an anti-immigration camp
that will brook no talk of amnesty to allow existing employees to stay; and
employers whose growth, profits and, in some cases, existence depend on a
reliable supply of cheap, low-skilled workers of the sort that have become
scarce among native-born Americans.

While in Arizona, I spent time with state Rep. Russell K. Pearce, chief sponsor
of the employer-sanctions bill. For him, the impulse to turn back the tide of
illegal immigrants and return to a simpler era is visceral. "My son married a
Hispanic woman . . . my neighbors are the Martinezes, and we get along well,"
said Pearce, whose office at the Capitol features portraits of John Wayne. "But
we're an English-speaking nation, and we should hold on to our culture."

I also talked to Jason LeVecke, president of a company that owns 68 fast-food
restaurants and convenience stores around Arizona, whose fury at the
employer-sanctions law led him to suspend new projects in the state. "Arizona at
the end of the day is a desert," he said. "If we become a more risky or a more
costly place of doing business than the other 49 states, which today we are, we
will become a declining economy in perpetuity."

Until Congress resolves that debate, there will be plenty more such voices
shouting at each other in the desert.

The writer is a member of the editorial page staff. His e-mail address is
hockstaderl@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Guillermo Arias -- Associated Press; A fence along the
Arizona's border with Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 25, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Crackdown Falls Short;
Despite Tough Rhetoric, Few Employers of Illegal Workers Face Criminal Charges

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1285 words


In its announced clampdown on companies that hire illegal workers, the federal
government has arrested nearly four times as many people in the past year as it
did two years ago, but only a tiny fraction of those arrests involved criminal
charges against those who hired the workers, according to a year-end tally
prepared by the Department of Homeland Security.

Fewer than 100 owners, supervisors or hiring officials were arrested in fiscal
2007, compared with nearly 4,900 arrests that involved illegal workers,
providers of fake documents and others, the figures show. Immigration experts
say the data illustrate the Bush administration's limited success at delivering
on its rhetoric about stopping illegal hiring by corporate employers.

"I know what it takes to get a criminal case," said Sen. Claire McCaskill
(D-Mo.), a former state prosecutor and member of the Senate Homeland Security
Committee. ". . . Why is it that hundreds of bar owners can be sanctioned in
Missouri every year for letting somebody with a fake ID have a beer, but we
can't manage to sanction hundreds of employers for letting people use fake
identities to obtain a job?"

Democratic political consultants have advised the party's lawmakers -- who
already are on the defensive about immigration policy -- that the Bush
administration's failure to more aggressively target powerful corporations may
be a vulnerability for Republican candidates who are seeking to make immigration
a campaign issue.

Bush administration officials have promised to strike at the "magnet" of jobs
luring illegal immigrants into the country, a goal supported by experts across
the political spectrum. "The days of treating employers who violate these laws
by giving them the equivalent of a corporate parking ticket -- those days are
gone. It's now felonies, jail time, fines and forfeitures," Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff said at a Nov. 6 news conference.

In a year-end review this month, Chertoff added that the enforcement crackdown
will "make a down payment on credibility with the American people." He said
Americans' "profound public skepticism" about government efforts to control
illegal immigration helped kill a broad, White House-backed overhaul in the
Senate this summer.

But even though DHS has ratcheted up its enforcement effort, this year's 92
criminal arrests of employers still amount to a drop in the bucket of a national
economy that includes 6 million companies that employ more than 7 million
unauthorized workers, several analysts said. Only 17 firms faced criminal fines
or other forfeitures this year.

In one case, Richard M. Rosenbaum, the former president of Rosenbaum-Cunningham
International, a nationwide cleaning contractor based in Florida, pleaded guilty
in October to harboring illegal immigrants and conspiracy to defraud the
government, agreeing to pay more than $17 million in restitution and
forfeitures.

For decades, political opposition by the businesses that rely on such workers
and by the communities where they are employed has helped water down the laws
and other tools needed for a more sustained, less scattershot effort.

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE) "has gotten the
message that employer enforcement is essential. . . . Nonetheless, the numbers
show the chronic failure of employer enforcement under current laws," said Doris
Meissner, commissioner of the former U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
from 1993 through 2000 and now a senior fellow at the Migration Policy
Institute, which studies migration patterns.

"The whole point of employer sanctions is to punish those who provide jobs --
the primary incentive -- to illegal workers. That goal continues to be largely
unmet," Meissner said.

Late in the Clinton administration and early in the current administration, the
number of illegal immigrants arrested in work-site cases fell -- from 2,849 in
1999 to a low of 445 in 2003 -- although there has since been a rebound. The
number of criminal cases brought against employers during that period fell from
182 to four.

ICE reported that the 92 criminal arrests made in the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30 included 59 owners and 33 corporate officials, human resources workers,
crew chiefs and others in the "supervisory chain."

Of the remaining 771 criminal arrests, nearly 90 percent involved workers and
other people accused of identity theft or document fraud, money laundering,
providing transportation or documentation to illegal workers, or other crimes.
Criminal fines and other penalties grew from $600,000 in 2003 to more than $30
million in 2007, but they were dominated by a few large payments, including
Rosenbaum's.

ICE Director Julie Myers, who served as chief of staff to Chertoff when he led
the Justice Department's criminal division from 2001 to 2003, wrote in response
to McCaskill's criticism that it takes time to build criminal cases, and that
DHS's tougher criminal enforcement approach is "fundamentally different" from
the weak administrative fines and pinprick raids that resulted from a
congressional backlash against actions against corporations in the late 1990s.

In an interview, agency spokesman Brandon Alvarez-Montgomery said ICE focuses on
"egregious" violators whose business models rely on hiring illegal immigrants,
especially those whose practices may promote fraud or border breaches.

McCaskill called such arguments an excuse for not punishing big-money business
and farm interests that want cheap labor, effectively penalizing law-abiding
business owners and exploiting illegal immigrant workers. "The reality simply
doesn't match their rhetoric," said McCaskill, who began pressing ICE to release
the employer statistics in September.

In a bluntly worded memo last week, a consortium known as Democracy Corps,
organized by Democratic Party consultants Stan Greenberg, Al Quinlan and James
Carville, warned Democratic incumbents, candidates in House and Senate
battleground districts, and presidential hopefuls that they "ignore the
[immigration] issue at their peril."

"If leaders do not show their own frustration with the problem, they will not be
heard on this issue -- and many others," they wrote. "There is particular appeal
for cracking down on unscrupulous corporations that exploit illegal and legal
workers. Voters are eager to believe that companies' preferences for cheap labor
are a source of the problem."

The Bush administration has said it is trying to improve its Internet-based
E-Verify program, through which less than 1 percent of U.S. employers now
voluntarily check new hires' Social Security numbers. It is also fighting major
business, farm and labor groups in federal court to use Social Security data
generated when suspect numbers are submitted to the government as a sweeping
nationwide enforcement tool.

A federal judge blocked the program from going forward in October, but the
government is appealing. The administration is also attempting to modify its
plan to mail "no-match" letters to 140,000 employers to meet conditions set by
the judge.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
seeks to restrict immigration and has opposed the Bush administration's
proposals for giving legal status to some illegal immigrants, said the
importance of a sustained crackdown involving both raids and the "no-match"
program "is to change businesses' expectations, in order to change their
behavior."

"Past enforcement actions have been regarded by business correctly as a passing
thing. . . . They need to believe it's not just going to go away in a couple of
months," Krikorian said. Illegal immigrant labor laws should be enforced as
rigorously as child labor laws, he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Ground Zero;
In Arizona, the fruit of Congress's failure

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 1025 words


THE NEW ground zero in the debate over illegal immigration is Arizona, where the
nation's toughest and potentially most far-reaching crackdown on undocumented
workers and their employers is scheduled to take effect Jan. 1. The Arizona law,
passed resoundingly by the state legislature after Congress failed to enact
immigration reform last summer, penalizes companies that knowingly hire illegal
immigrants by suspending their business licenses for up to 10 days; ; on a
second offense, the business license would be revoked -- what Gov. Janet
Napolitano (D) has called a corporate "death penalty." Thus the Arizona law may
become a test case for how much pain a state is willing to endure, and inflict,
in the name of ridding itself of a population that contributes enormously to its
economic growth and prosperity.

Illegal immigrants have flocked to Arizona for years to fill jobs that
native-born people don't want. While the state's unemployment rate remains low,
undocumented employees comprise an estimated 9 to 12 percent of the state's 3
million workers. Companies in agriculture, construction and service industries
rely heavily on illegal immigrants, and any successful attempt to drive them out
will have economic repercussions that may be severe.

In construction alone, Judith Gans of the University of Arizona has estimated
that a

15 percent cut in the state's immigrant workforce would result in direct losses
of about 56,000 jobs and some $6.6 billion in economic output. The direct loss
to state tax revenue would be approximately $270 million. The study, and others
like it, including in Texas, refute the arguments  that illegal immigrants are
an overall burden on state economies because of the education, health care and
other services they require; in fact they contribute heavily to economic growth.

That explains why so many business owners were livid in June when the U.S.
Senate killed legislation to provide an eventual path to citizenship for the 12
million illegal immigrants already living in America; to create a legal
mechanism to satisfy the national economy's annual appetite for hundreds of
thousands of immigrant workers; and to tighten enforcement of existing sanctions
against employers who hire illegal workers. That political failure has spawned
hundreds of state and local attempts to deal with illegal immigration, including
Arizona's.

The Arizona law illustrates the self-defeating hazard of addressing one part of
the problem -- enforcement -- without also recognizing the plain reality of
America's need for immigrant labor. It was enacted and is taking effect in an
atmosphere of extreme emotion, ugly diatribes in the blogosphere and occasional
street scuffles -- the sort of environment that defeats rational discourse. It
is likely to be enforced with gusto in and around Phoenix, the nation's
sixth-largest city, by an ambitious state prosecutor who is urging citizens to
blow the whistle on offending companies -- anonymously if they wish -- and by a
county sheriff whose stock in trade is hounding, arresting and helping to deport
immigrants whose behavior or appearance suggests they may be here illegally.

Although the authorities are paying lip service to their commitment to fair
enforcement, they are in fact contributing to a situation tailor-made to enable
racial profiling and false, defamatory or vengeful reports by those who might
harbor a grudge against an employer. Already, in the weeks before the law is to
take effect, there were reports of businesses considering moving out of state or
reconsidering in-state expansion plans, as well as hundreds of illegal
immigrants pulling their children out of school and seeking work elsewhere.

There is little clarity about the law itself, which is being challenged in court
by major business associations, Hispanic groups and the American Civil Liberties
Union.  The statute was sloppily drafted, and Ms. Napolitano signed it  at least
in part because she feared an even more draconian ballot initiative by

immigrant-bashers (who are trying to organize one  anyway). While Ms. Napolitano
believes the law applies only to workers hired after Jan. 1, Andrew Thomas, the
Maricopa County (Phoenix) prosecutor whose purview includes most of the state's
population and workforce, says it applies to any employee on a firm's payroll,
regardless of hiring date.

Reasonable suspicions exist that many companies will continue hiring and paying
illegal workers off the books to evade the law's sanctions, which may give rise
to a sizable underground economy and encourage exploitation of vulnerable
workers. The system of verification that employers will be required to use to
check workers' status relies on a federal database whose error rate regarding
non-native-born Americans is believed to be as high as 10 percent -- and for
which Congress has appropriated no funds beyond next year. All in all, a recipe
for chaos and confusion.

Arizona has undergone explosive population growth in recent decades, along with
sharp demographic change. At least 14 percent of the state's 6 million people
are foreign-born, more than twice the percentage in 1990. Much of that growth
can be explained by illegal immigration; the 620,000 (mostly undocumented)
noncitizens in the state in 2004 were almost four times the number there were in
1990. The shift has contributed to a rise in nativist and outright racist
sentiment, as well as to legitimate concerns about the effect of so many illegal
immigrants -- most of them from one poor country, Mexico -- on neighborhoods,
crime rates and municipal budgets.

In responding with this law to the popular anger and anxiety about illegal
immigration, Arizona may have been within its legal rights; the courts will
decide that shortly. But the price the law will exact is likely to be severe --
to the state's economy, to thousands of immigrant families and, very likely, to
the civil rights of legal Hispanic residents who will come under unwarranted
suspicion. Those costs may cause Arizonans to question the prudence of their
state lawmakers and highlight the folly of Washington's failure to come to grips
with illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 3, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The Overlooked Value of Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 276 words


As a child and grandchild of immigrants from Europe, I was disturbed by
columnist Marc Fisher's description of a "stampede" of bills in the Virginia
legislature that are targeting undocumented immigrants [Metro, Jan. 31].

Setting aside the obvious irony, that all of the original settlers in the
commonwealth were undocumented immigrants, I wonder why folks don't understand
the value of these low-paid workers, who help raise our crops, work on chicken
farms, pack seafood, build our roads and houses, and raise our children while
their parents are at work earning enough to help pay our overpriced mortgages.

If these low-wage workers depart, I see a future of more imported fruits,
vegetables and canned goods because local farmers won't have the laborers they
need to bring in their crops. We know that this is the worst possible way to
supply our needs -- the petroleum reserves required to ship in foreign food are
diminishing, and the amount of pollution created so we can eat strawberries from
Chile, for example, gives one pause.

These immigrant workers are our best resource at home: They pay taxes, buy cars
and houses, rent apartments, and so on, contributing to our economy while
enabling us to eat locally grown foods. Let legislators in Virginia and all over
our nation think more carefully before jumping on the bandwagon to bar
undocumented workers from becoming citizens.

And as for the resolution introduced by Sen. Ken Cuccinelli II (R-Fairfax),
which would ask Congress to seek a change to the 14th Amendment so that any
child born in the United States would not be automatically a citizen? That is
shameful.

CHRISTEL STEVENS

University Park

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 25, 2008 Tuesday 12:00 AM EST

Visas Needed;
By keeping out needed high-tech workers, U.S. immigration policy pushes U.S.
jobs abroad.

BYLINE:

SECTION: PRINT

LENGTH: 484 words



HIGHLIGHT: APRIL'S JUST AROUND the corner, and that means it's H-1B preparation
time once again. H-1Bs, which are visas for skilled foreign workers, are capped
at 65,000, with another 20,000 given to foreign alumni of U.S. postgraduate
programs. Last year, the cap was reached within hours on the first day that the
U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services began accepting
applications. Because a bachelor's degree is required for these applications,
most foreign graduates from the class of 2007 were among the tens of thousands
who were shut out of the process. If nothing changes, America will miss out on
another crop of talent this year.


APRIL'S JUST AROUND the corner, and that means it's H-1B preparation time once
again. H-1Bs, which are visas for skilled foreign workers, are capped at 65,000,
with another 20,000 given to foreign alumni of U.S. postgraduate programs. Last
year, the cap was reached within hours on the first day that the U.S. Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services began accepting applications. Because a
bachelor's degree is required for these applications, most foreign graduates
from the class of 2007 were among the tens of thousands who were shut out of the
process. If nothing changes, America will miss out on another crop of talent
this year.

H-1B visas are reserved for the world's best and brightest, and barring their
entry is economic self-sabotage. The cap keeps out doctors, engineers and other
specialists -- people who save lives and often create jobs for others in
America. One need only look at the national origins of founders of companies
such as Google and Sun Microsystems to realize that foreign talent has helped
keep the U.S. economy on the cutting edge. These are talents the United States
has been struggling to grow at home, given that more than a third of all science
and engineering doctorates awarded in the United States go to foreign students
(for whom the number of visas is not capped), according to the National Science
Foundation.

The H-1B visa cap was set well before the tech boom and so does not reflect
current needs. It was raised temporarily in 1999, but that increase was allowed
to lapse a few years later. Since last year's debacle, there have been
congressional attempts to increase the cap, but these have been held up by the
political sensitivities surrounding immigration reform, and in particular
reforms aimed at illegal and unskilled workers. Because lawmakers lack the
political will to keep the world's talent in America, companies are following it
overseas, setting up shop in Canada, India, Eastern Europe and other areas where
the skills they need are plentiful. As a result, investment and jobs are being
shipped abroad. As Bill Gates testified this month, the jobs created by the
A-earning foreign students who did not remain in the United States will now go
to the "B and C students" surrounding them at home in India rather than to their
American counterparts.

One solution that may be less politically inflammatory would be to recapture
H-1B visas that Congress has already approved but that went unused during the
post-Sept. 11 economic downturn. About 300,000 surplus visas could be doled out
over the next several years to provide a short-term fix to the current shortage
and could perhaps include an additional fee -- which employers would pay -- to
create more revenue. A long-term solution is still necessary. Allowing the cap
to stay so low effectively exiles not only the world's best and brightest but
also the U.S. companies that employ them.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Visas Needed;
By keeping out needed high-tech workers, U.S. immigration policy pushes U.S.
jobs abroad.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 484 words


APRIL'S JUST AROUND the corner, and that means it's H-1B preparation time once
again. H-1Bs, which are visas for skilled foreign workers, are capped at 65,000,
with another 20,000 given to foreign alumni of U.S. postgraduate programs. Last
year, the cap was reached within hours on the first day that the U.S. Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services began accepting applications. Because a
bachelor's degree is required for these applications, most foreign graduates
from the class of 2007 were among the tens of thousands who were shut out of the
process. If nothing changes, America will miss out on another crop of talent
this year.

H-1B visas are reserved for the world's best and brightest, and barring their
entry is economic self-sabotage. The cap keeps out doctors, engineers and other
specialists -- people who save lives and often create jobs for others in
America. One need only look at the national origins of founders of companies
such as Google and Sun Microsystems to realize that foreign talent has helped
keep the U.S. economy on the cutting edge. These are talents the United States
has been struggling to grow at home, given that more than a third of all science
and engineering doctorates awarded in the United States go to foreign students
(for whom the number of visas is not capped), according to the National Science
Foundation.

The H-1B visa cap was set well before the tech boom and so does not reflect
current needs. It was raised temporarily in 1999, but that increase was allowed
to lapse a few years later. Since last year's debacle, there have been
congressional attempts to increase the cap, but these have been held up by the
political sensitivities surrounding immigration reform, and in particular
reforms aimed at illegal and unskilled workers. Because lawmakers lack the
political will to  keep the world's talent  in America, companies are following
it overseas, setting up shop in Canada, India, Eastern Europe and other areas
where the skills they need are plentiful. As a result, investment and jobs are
being shipped abroad. As Bill Gates testified this month, the jobs created by
the A-earning foreign students who did not remain in the United States will now
go to the "B and C students" surrounding them at home in India rather than to
their American counterparts.

One solution that may be less politically inflammatory would be to recapture
H-1B visas that Congress has already approved but that went unused during the
post-Sept. 11 economic downturn. About 300,000 surplus visas could be doled out
over the next several years to provide a short-term fix to the current shortage
and could perhaps include an additional fee -- which employers would pay --  to
create more revenue. A long-term solution is still necessary. Allowing the cap
to stay so low effectively exiles not only the world's best and brightest but
also the U.S. companies that employ them.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 21, 2008 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

For Visas, The Demand Outstrips The Supply;
Firms Say They Rely On Skilled Immigrants

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1077 words


"Welcome to the United Nations!" says Roy Higgs as he ushers visitors into his
architectural design firm in Baltimore, where more than half of the 125
employees are foreign-born.

Behind him is a maze of brightly lighted cubicles, each with a plaque noting the
occupant's name and native country: China, Lebanon, Nigeria, Pakistan, Ukraine,
Colombia, the United States.

Higgs's reliance on international talent -- increasingly typical of high-tech,
scientific and educational employers -- helps explain why immigration officials
received a record 163,000 applications for high-skilled work visas this month.

That number, submitted by employers during a five-day application period, topped
the record set last April, when 140,000 applications for H-1B visas were
received. Despite the high demand, last year Congress authorized just 65,000 of
the visas for high-skilled workers.

This year, 20,000 were added for immigrants who have just completed advanced
degrees at U.S. institutions. A total of 85,000 requests will be chosen randomly
by computer and then reviewed to ensure the applicants meet all eligibility
requirements. An immigrant can be on H-1B status for up to six years in most
circumstances.

With so many U.S.-born college graduates and technical workers looking for jobs,
critics ask, why does the number of H-1B visa applications keep growing?

"It's because we have absolutely no choice," said Higgs, chief executive of
Development Design Group, located in a sleek, remodeled brewery. "Some people
think this is just about bringing in cheap labor, but it's not. We offer the
same salaries and perks whether you're from Baltimore or Bangladesh . . . but we
simply cannot find enough qualified U.S.-born staff to fuel our growth."

Higgs applied for three H-1B visas this year for temporary employees from China,
Thailand and Spain. He argues that it makes no sense for Congress to set the
annual limits so low, in part because the foreign workers help U.S. businesses
grow.

"I agree we can't just keep importing people. And we have to do something to
increase the supply at home," he said. "But in the meantime, if this program
allows the best and brightest in the world to come here, why keep the gate
closed? I don't get it."

Opponents of expanding the H-1B visa program dismiss such arguments as
self-interested and shortsighted. They say many large employers, especially in
the high-tech field, pay foreign workers lower wages to do basic, entry-level
computer programming or other work that Americans could easily perform -- and
for which the skilled-visa program was not originally intended.

They also argue that by importing so many foreign workers, businesses are
discouraging young Americans from entering the market. If there were more
competition for high-tech and research jobs, they say, salaries would rise and
more American students would naturally gravitate to them instead of to more
popular disciplines such as law and medicine.

"Lawmakers are often dazzled by the idea that these people are working with
computers, but this is the post-industrial era, and an H-1B worker today is not
much different from a railroad worker of 100 years ago," said Mark Krikorian,
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank in
Washington that generally favors lower immigration levels. "This is just a
cheap-labor program and another example of American businessmen being against
capitalism."

According to surveys cited by Krikorian's center, more than 400,000 Americans
lost jobs in the information technology sector between 2001 and 2004, while U.S.
high-tech companies sponsored more than 250,000 H-1B workers. The surveys also
found that half of high-tech jobs held by skilled-visa holders were entry-level
or trainee positions.

"Our over-reliance on guest workers is becoming a vicious cycle," said Jessica
Vaughn, a Boston-based researcher. In skilled nursing, she said, there are long
waiting lists for U.S. college programs, even as hospitals and other employers
keep hiring foreign nurses on skilled visas. "It has become easier to hire
trained, English-speaking foreigners than to educate and train Americans," she
said.

While employers, experts and legislators continue to wrangle over the H-1B
program, thousands of applicants such as Wei Wen Yang remain in limbo, uncertain
whether to put down more roots in the United States or keep their bags packed.

Yang, 40, a financial manager from China whose wife and young son still live in
Northern Virginia, said that because the H-1B visas ran out so quickly last
year, he could not find a sponsor in the Washington area this year. So he
relocated to a firm in California.

"It is hard for us to be apart," Yang said in a telephone interview from Los
Angeles. "If I get the visa, at least it will allow my family to be together. If
I don't get it, we will have to make some hard decisions. If we have to go back
to China, we will, but here there is more chance for professional development,
and it is a much better place to educate our son."

At Development Design Group, conversations in multiple languages flow around
drafting boards as teams assemble models of condominiums and office buildings.
The atmosphere is one of intellectual energy, punctuated by bursts of youthful
laughter.

"We look for talent wherever we can find it," said Ahsin Rasheed, one of the
firm's managers and a native of Pakistan. "We don't hire based on where you come
from, but we can say proudly that our staff speaks 24 languages. Our only
frustration is that we can't hire more."

For employees awaiting word on their H-1B's, enthusiasm is mixed with anxiety.
Thapana Sakulisariyporn, an immigrant from Thailand with a master's degree in
architecture from the University of Michigan, said the Baltimore firm has
allowed him to work on much more elaborate projects than he had expected.

"This may be the best chance in my whole life," he said, sipping green tea next
to an acrylic model of a large shopping center. "If I can't stay, it would be
tragic."

Marti Broquetas, 28, another visa applicant from Barcelona, suggested that
foreign-born professional workers, in addition to benefiting from the advantages
the United States offers, have something to give back.

"So many people in Europe have a bad image of America now, but we come here and
we see another side," Broquetas said. "In America, everyone comes from somewhere
else, and we all want to learn something new. The experience is enriching to all
of us."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; Yuri Zietz works at
Baltimore's Development Design Group, which relies on skilled immigrants.
IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; Employees of Development Design
Group share lunch at the company's canteen. The firm employs skilled workers
from more than a dozen countries.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Citizenship Lesson From the Top;
Chief of Federal Office Reaches Out to Immigrant Teens

BYLINE: Lori Aratani; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 664 words


They impressed him with their knowledge of President Bush's Cabinet and
ability to give numerous examples illustrating the U.S. system of checks and
balances. But it was their tough questions -- "Why can't legal immigrants have
the right to vote?" and "If immigrants are so important, why are some being sent
back out of the country?" -- that really got Alfonso Aguilar's attention.

Aguilar, chief of the U.S. Office of  Citizenship, met with 30 teenage
immigrants yesterday at Gaithersburg High School for a 90-minute civics lesson
and question-and-answer session in which the students took full advantage of
their right to hold their government officials accountable.

Aguilar's appearance in Gaithersburg is part of the government's  push to reach
out to the immigrant community and encourage its members to learn English and
embrace American political culture. The effort comes as record numbers are
applying for citizenship.

In response to the query regarding legal immigrants and voting, Aguilar replied,
"That's a good question." He acknowledged that laws affect everyone, not just
citizens, but said that if people want a voice in the process, they must make a
commitment.

"It's important if you want to exercise your political rights that you be fully
attached to our country," Aguilar said. "You need to take that public oath."

Zury Majano, a freshman, asked Aguilar to explain why states such as Virginia
were passing laws targeting illegal immigrants.

"Isn't the right to an education a federal law?" the 14-year-old asked.

"That's a tough question," Aguilar replied. "The problem is we need immigration
reform, and because we don't have immigration reform, a lot of states and
communities are acting on their own."

He encouraged Zury and her fellow students to write letters to their
representatives urging them to pass laws that would reform the immigration
system.

Aguilar led a similar discussion earlier this year with older Vietnamese
immigrants at the Long Branch Community Center in Silver Spring.

Yesterday, the vibe was different. The students were eager to share their
knowledge of the U.S. political system. They debated the merits of direct and
representative democracy with their guest. And they chuckled when he told them
how he grew up eating beans and rice every night in Puerto Rico.

Aguilar, the son of a Costa Rican father and Italian mother, praised the
students for their fearlessness in asking tough questions.

"Many of these students are not citizens, but they know more about the process
than a lot of adults," he said.

The students are enrolled in an after-school course sponsored by Liberty's
Promise, an Alexandria-based nonprofit group that teaches  young immigrants
about their roles as future citizens. In most cases, an immigrant must be at
least 18 and  have lived in the United States for five years to apply for
citizenship. If the teen immigrant is married to a citizen, he or she has only
to have lived in the United States for three years.

As part of the program, the teenagers learn about U.S. history and citizenship
responsibilities. They take field trips, meet elected leaders and participate in
community service projects.

Aguilar opened the after-school discussion with a DVD presentation, then led the
group in a discussion about what it means to be an American. He also posed
questions.

"What unites us?" he asked.

The students sat quietly as they pondered the question. Finally Rachid Louis, an
18-year-old senior, spoke.

"We all want a better life," he said. "And freedom."

Aguilar told the students that although America embraces different cultures, it
is important for them to learn English, be involved in their communities and
understand American political values.

He emphasized  that they should play an important role within their families.

"Immigrant students in the U.S. play an important role because you help the
first generation -- your parents -- navigate the community," he said. "I want to
commend you for helping your parents."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Alfonso
Aguilar, chief of the U.S. Office of Citizenship, meets with teenage immigrants
at Gaithersburg High School to encourage them to learn English and embrace
American culture. In turn, they had some tough questions for him.
IMAGE; Students take home a DVD they watched during a 90-minute discussion about
what it means to be an American citizen.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Undocumented Workers and the Law

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 165 words


Regarding the Jan. 15 Metro story "Bill on Migrants Splits a Town With Few":

It's not that Taneytown wants to ban legal migrant workers, who for years have
come to this area to pick fruit.

The town wants to ban illegal workers.

Federal law states that  anyone working in this country must have the legal
status to do so. If an employer is found to employ  someone who does not have
work authorization, the employer can be fined and the worker deported. But since
our government does not adequately enforce this requirement, it is up to local
communities to create guidelines for employers. This does not make these local
governments wrong; it makes them right for wanting to  see the laws of the
country obeyed.

Taneytown is not the only  jurisdiction that has put this problem on the table.
As long as the federal government does nothing, this will be a growing problem
for Americans, whether native-born  or immigrant.

We all need to stand up and obey the laws of our land.

SONDRA EATON

Camp Springs

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Departing Superintendent Recalls 25 Years at Jail

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 746 words


Prince William County's population had not yet boomed. Immigration was decades
away from becoming a locally divisive topic. And Route 234 was two lanes.

Col. Charles "Skip" Land was there, witnessing the opening of the jail he would
later run.

It was 1982, and the Prince William-Manassas Regional Adult Detention Center was
starting operations. There were 123 inmates at the time, compared with
1,000-plus today.

"There's only a handful [of workers] left that started in 1982," said Land, 56,
sitting in his office one day last week. A younger, darker-haired version of him
stared from pictures on his shelves. "But that handful that is left knows what
it's like to open up a jail; they know what corrections is all about."

The jail superintendent has announced that he will leave at year's end, citing
health reasons.

"It's probably the hardest decision I ever made," Land said.

He leaves as the jail begins to participate in a program that gives staff
members immigration enforcement authority, the first in the region to do so, and
before the completion of a 200-bed addition, expected to open next fall.

Maj. Peter Meletis will serve as acting superintendent until a permanent
successor is chosen by the jail board, which overseas the detention center.
Meletis said he is comfortable accepting the task.

"I feel confident he's been a good leader and a good teacher," Meletis said of
Land. "He's assembled a good team around us. We're going to carry on the
foundation that he's laid for us."

Other jail staff members described Land as fair, respected and one to "fight for
his staff."

Land became superintendent after Glendell Hill was elected sheriff in 2003. Land
said one of his first challenges was when he surveyed the staff and realized
that 67 percent of middle and upper managers were eligible to retire. The jail
has 268 employees, with 34 expected to join the department in the coming months.

Before the jail opened, Land worked as a Manassas Park police officer, serving
as chief from 1976 to 1978. He then worked briefly for Herndon police before
becoming a Manassas police officer.

Land said he remembers how he viewed corrections officers at that time.

"I wouldn't give you a plugged nickel for a corrections officer," he said in a
drawl developed while growing up in southern Illinois. "I thought they were
below a police officer."

With time, he said, he realized the life of a corrections officer is hidden
behind the jail walls, unlike the visible life of a police officer, and so the
job's challenges often go unnoticed.

"A corrections officer spends more time with the inmates than his family," Land
said. "Now I love the police department, but when I teach at the academy, I tell
them, 'Until you walk in a correction officer's shoes, don't you do what I did,
don't you put them down.' "

Corrections officers not only put up with inmates' insults but also threats to
their families, Land said. The latter is the toughest part of the job, he said.

"We're dealing with people who raped and murdered. We had the sniper [John Allen
Muhammad] in here for 18 months," Land said. "But you have to weigh and balance
because the other guy you're dealing with may be getting out tomorrow. He may
have stolen because he couldn't feed his family."

He said one of his favorite parts of the job is the success stories, the former
inmate who walks up to him on the outside with his wife and kids and a new
outlook.

"There's not much I can do for John Muhammad, but I love those success stories,"
Land said.

With the highs have come the lows. The past year has been difficult for the
jail, with several attention-grabbing mistakes.

Two Hispanic men were left behind bars after they should have been released, one
two months earlier. The defendant in a murder case escaped after he was allowed
to walk out in a moment of confusion between  workers at the jail and court. He
was later found not far from a police station.

After those incidents, a consultant was hired and officials from various areas
of criminal justice formed a committee, strengthening communication in the
system, Land said. Together, he said, they found ways of identifying suspects
who have more than one name, which was the problem in at least one of the
incidents.

"I can't guarantee we won't make a mistake tomorrow, but I can guarantee it's a
better system than we had a year ago," Land said.

His last day will be Dec. 31. He said he looks forward to spending more time
with his wife.

"This has been a good run," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; 2003 Pool Photo By Dave Ellis Via Associated Press; "It's
probably the hardest decision I ever made," Superintendent Charles "Skip" Land
said of leaving the jail, his workplace since it opened in 1982.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 13, 2008 Thursday 12:00 AM EST

Gates Calls on Congress For Science Education, Visas

BYLINE: Kim Hart, Washington Post Staff Writer, Post

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 475 words



HIGHLIGHT: Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates paid a visit to Capitol Hill yesterday
with a familiar wish list: more money for math and science education, more funds
for research and more visas for skilled foreign workers.


Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates paid a visit to Capitol Hill yesterday with a
familiar wish list: more money for math and science education, more funds for
research and more visas for skilled foreign workers.

In his last scheduled testimony to Congress before he retires, Gates said those
provisions are necessary for the United States to maintain a competitive edge in
technology innovation. He said some of the most talented graduates in math,
science and engineering are temporary residents and cannot get the visas they
need to take jobs with U.S. companies.

"U.S. innovation has always been based in part on foreign-born scientists and
researchers," Gates told the House Committee on Science and Technology. "The
fact that [other countries'] smartest people have wanted to come here has been a
huge advantage to us, and in a sense, we're kind of throwing that away."

The committee held the hearing to mark its 50th anniversary; it was founded
after the Soviet Union's Sputnik satellite was launched in 1957. Most members of
the panel congratulated Gates on his achievements at Microsoft, which he founded
in 1975 after dropping out of Harvard, as well as the contributions his
philanthropic foundation, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, has made to
educational causes.

Gates, 52, smiled throughout the two-hour hearing, sipping from a can of Diet
Coke and occasionally jotting notes with a pencil. He tapped his feet underneath
the table as he talked, sometimes in sync with the rhythm of his voice.

When asked about taxes, Gates jokingly pointed out that he has written checks to
the federal government for billions of dollars. "I don't begrudge it at all," he
said. "I'm glad you're all working hard to see it's well spent."

Much of the discussion surrounded Gates's call to raise the annual maximum of
65,000 H-1B visas, which allow employers to hire foreigners with specific
skills. Last year, Gates said, Microsoft was not able to get visas for about
one-third of the foreign-born people it wanted to hire.

Some lawmakers have sponsored bills to allow more visas, but others have said
the H1-B program takes jobs from Americans and pushes down wages.

Rep. Steven R. Rothman (D-N.J.) asked Gates if he thought there should be any
limit on the number of visas issued, and facetiously asked if IQ tests should be
administered to determine who is worthy of earning permanent-resident status.

After reiterating that "immigration has been a great thing for this country,"
Gates acknowledged some limits were probably appropriate.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) told Gates he was too focused on opportunities
for top students. He said the goal is not to replace "B and C students with the
A students from India."

Gates replied that more jobs are created around top engineers, and the continued
demand for skilled workers will keep wages from decreasing.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 1, 2008 Tuesday 12:00 AM EST

Skilled-Worker Visa Demand Expected To Far Exceed Supply

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey, Washington Post Staff Writer, Post

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 490 words



HIGHLIGHT: The nation's giant technology firms are competing this week in the
annual government lottery for visas allowing them to hire highly skilled foreign
workers, and few are expecting to get what they want.


The nation's giant technology firms are competing this week in the annual
government lottery for visas allowing them to hire highly skilled foreign
workers, and few are expecting to get what they want.

Last year, the federal government received more than 123,000 petitions for the
65,000 H1B visas that were available. This year, some expect the odds of winning
the lottery to be even lower.

Microsoft, for example, is petitioning to hire 1,600 foreign engineers. But
company officials said they would be lucky to gain 40 percent of those requests
in this year's contest, which begins today and ends April 7.

"It'll be worse than last year," said Jack Krumholtz, Microsoft's managing
director of federal government affairs. "Because only 65,000 of these
desperately needed visas are made available, it is highly likely that this
year's supply of visas will once again be exhausted in a single day."

While companies such as Microsoft, Oracle and Intel have been complaining to
Congress about the government caps on hiring skilled foreign workers, some
advocates for U.S. programmers have countered that the limits on foreign skilled
workers are too lenient and have helped lower wages.

"It is unconscionable that Congress has created this program that allows
companies to fill jobs with foreigners even when qualified Americans are
available for them," said Kim Berry, president of the Programmers Guild.

He argued that while the visa program was supposed to attract "the best and the
brightest," it has become a means for Indian companies to bring workers into the
United States who will accept lower salaries.

Berry said that two years ago the median salary paid to a worker in the visa
program was $55,000 -- or about what he said new engineering graduates are paid.

Opponents of the program criticize the role of Indian temp companies -- what
Berry called "body shops" -- that in recent years have won a larger share of
such visas. Sens. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) and Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) have
expressed similar concerns.

"They're bringing in programmers here for as little as $40,000," Berry said. "It
means that U.S. job seekers don't have a chance of competing in this job
market."

The number of H1B visas had reached 195,000 but fell back to 65,000 in late
2003.

Now each side is lobbying Congress to reform the system and move the cap up or
down. But in an election year, few expect politicians to make big changes to
immigration law.

In the meantime, Microsoft recently opened a complex in Canada to accommodate
about 150 foreign engineers whom it was unable to fit in under last year's
program. The complex is located in an office park in Vancouver, relatively close
to Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Wash.

Microsoft officials said the average salary it pays a software engineer is
$109,000 in direct compensation.

"Canadian immigration laws work to bring these kind of people to the country,"
Krumholtz said. "They've seen the benefit."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

IN BRIEF

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. AA02

LENGTH: 668 words

Connect With County Resources This Weekend

County officials will host the second Community Connections Day on Saturday to
help inform community association leaders about county government resources.

The event runs from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Student Union Building's dining
hall at Anne Arundel Community College, 101 College Pkwy., Arnold.

For information, call 410-222-2222 or e-mail CCServices@aacounty.org Online
registration is available at
http://www.aacounty.org/CountyExec/ComServe/EventRegistration.cfm.

A Chance to Drop Off Toxic Household Waste

Anne Arundel County residents can drop off household hazardous waste from 8 a.m.
to 2 p.m. Saturday at the Millersville Landfill and Resource Recovery Facility,
389 Burns Crossing Rd., Severn.

The service is intended for toxic household products, including oven cleaners,
wood preservatives, pesticides, flammable liquids, oil-based paint, fluorescent
light fixtures, gasoline, disinfectants and products containing mercury. The
hazardous waste drop-off is safer than regular trash pickup. Waste from
businesses is not permitted.

Additional drop-off days will take place through November at various county
locations. For dates and locations, call 410-222-7951 or go to
http://www.aacounty.org/DPW/WasteManagement.

 Workshop on Hiring Foreign Workers

The Anne Arundel Economic Development Corp. and chamber of commerce will conduct
a Foreign Workers Employment Practice Workshop next Thursday for county
businesses seeking to hire foreign workers legally. Two panels will provide
information and case studies on such topics as discrimination, documentation,
background screening, legal and tax issues, and complying with federal
employment laws.

The workshop will run from 8 a.m. to noon at the BWI Airport Marriott, 1743 W.
Nursery Rd., Baltimore. Tickets are $50 and include a continental breakfast.
Registration is recommended and is available at
http://www.aaedc.org/special_events. For information, call 410-222-7410 or go to
http://www.aaedc.org.

College Fair Tuesday For Anne Arundel Students

Representatives from more than 150 two- and four-year colleges and universities
are slated to attend Tuesday's 2008 College Fair, sponsored by Anne Arundel
Community College and Anne Arundel County schools. College counselors and
admission representatives will be available to answer questions from students
and their families.

The event will take place in the David S. Jenkins Gymnasium on the AACC Campus,
101 College Pkwy., Arnold. The fair and parking are free. For information, call
410-777-2246.

Maryland Essay Contest For High School Students

The Maryland Colonial Society and the Maryland State Archives are sponsoring
their annual essay contest for Maryland high school students. The deadline for
entries is March 14.

Students must describe how the geographical representation of Maryland has
changed from colonial times to the present.

The winner will receive $200 and might be offered a summer internship in the
state's history at the Maryland State Archives. The contest is open to any
Maryland high school student.

Winners will be announced at Maryland Day ceremonies at the Maryland Historical
Society in Baltimore on March 25. Contest details and rules are available at
http://www.mdsa.net. For information, call 410-260-6444.

Community Clean Sweep Targets Greenbriar Lane

This Saturday, the Pen4 Coalition will have its second annual Community Clean
Sweep, a volunteer effort to clean up Greenbriar Lane in Ward 4 of Annapolis.
Volunteers are asked to bring work gloves and boots.

High school students are encouraged to participate and earn community service
hours.

The event will run from 9 a.m. to noon; volunteers will meet at the Annapolis
Walk Community Center, 1701 Belle Dr. For information, call 410-626-0098.

-- Compiled by SARAH MARSTON

To Submit an Item

E-mail: marstons@washpost.com

Fax: 410-267-6972

Mail: Sarah Marston, Anne Arundel Extra, The Washington Post, 3 Church Cir.,
Annapolis, Md. 21401

Details: Deadline is 14 days before publication.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Anne Arundel County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Gates Calls on Congress For Science Education, Visas

BYLINE: Kim Hart; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 475 words


Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates paid a visit to Capitol Hill yesterday with a
familiar wish list: more money for math and science education, more funds for
research and more visas for skilled foreign workers.

In his last scheduled testimony to Congress before he retires, Gates said those
provisions are necessary for the United States to maintain a competitive edge in
technology innovation. He said some of the most talented graduates in math,
science and engineering are temporary residents and cannot get the visas they
need to take jobs with U.S. companies.

"U.S. innovation has always been based in part on foreign-born scientists and
researchers," Gates told the House Committee on Science and Technology. "The
fact that [other countries'] smartest people have wanted to come here has been a
huge advantage to us, and in a sense, we're kind of throwing that away."

The committee held the hearing to mark its 50th anniversary; it was founded
after the Soviet Union's Sputnik satellite was launched in 1957. Most members of
the panel congratulated Gates on his achievements at Microsoft, which he founded
in 1975 after dropping out of Harvard, as well as the contributions his
philanthropic foundation, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, has made to
educational causes.

Gates, 52, smiled throughout the two-hour hearing, sipping from a can of Diet
Coke and occasionally jotting notes with a pencil. He tapped his feet underneath
the table as he talked, sometimes in sync with the rhythm of his voice.

When asked about taxes, Gates jokingly pointed out that he has written checks to
the federal government for billions of dollars. "I don't begrudge it at all," he
said. "I'm glad you're all working hard to see it's well spent."

Much of the discussion surrounded Gates's call to raise the annual maximum of
65,000 H-1B visas, which allow employers to hire foreigners with specific
skills. Last year, Gates said, Microsoft was not able to get visas for about
one-third of the foreign-born people it wanted to hire.

Some lawmakers have sponsored bills to allow more visas, but others have said
the H1-B program takes jobs from Americans and pushes down wages.

Rep. Steven R. Rothman (D-N.J.) asked Gates if he thought there should be any
limit on the number of visas issued, and facetiously asked if IQ tests should be
administered to determine who is worthy of earning permanent-resident status.

After reiterating that "immigration has been a great thing for this country,"
Gates acknowledged some limits were probably appropriate.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.) told Gates he was too focused on opportunities
for top students. He said the goal is not to replace "B and C students with the
A students from India."

Gates replied that more jobs are created around top engineers, and the continued
demand for skilled workers will keep wages from decreasing.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Alex Wong -- Getty Images; Bill Gates tells a House committee
that foreign workers are necessary if U.S. technology is to keep its competitive
advantage.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Skilled-Worker Visa Demand Expected To Far Exceed Supply

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 490 words


The nation's giant technology firms are competing this week in the annual
government lottery for visas allowing them to hire highly skilled foreign
workers, and few are expecting to get what they want.

Last year, the federal government received more than 123,000 petitions for the
65,000 H1B visas that were available. This year, some expect the odds of winning
the lottery to be even lower.

Microsoft, for example, is petitioning to hire 1,600 foreign engineers. But
company officials said they would be lucky to gain 40 percent of those requests
in this year's contest, which begins today and ends April 7.

"It'll be worse than last year," said Jack Krumholtz, Microsoft's managing
director of federal government affairs. "Because only 65,000 of these
desperately needed visas are made available, it is highly likely that this
year's supply of visas will once again be exhausted in a single day."

While companies such as Microsoft, Oracle and Intel have been complaining to
Congress about the government caps on hiring skilled foreign workers, some
advocates for U.S. programmers have countered that the limits on foreign skilled
workers are too lenient and have helped lower wages.

"It is unconscionable that Congress has created this program that allows
companies to fill jobs with foreigners even when qualified Americans are
available for them," said Kim Berry, president of the Programmers Guild.

He argued that while the visa program was supposed to attract "the best and the
brightest," it has become a means for Indian companies to bring workers into the
United States who will accept lower salaries.

Berry said that two years ago the median salary paid to a worker in the visa
program was $55,000 -- or about what he said new engineering graduates are paid.

Opponents of the program criticize the role of Indian temp companies -- what
Berry called "body shops" -- that in recent years have won a larger share of
such visas. Sens. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) and Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) have
expressed similar concerns.

"They're bringing in programmers here for as little as $40,000," Berry said. "It
means that U.S. job seekers don't have a chance of competing in this job
market."

The number of H1B visas had reached 195,000 but fell back to 65,000 in late
2003.

Now each side is lobbying Congress to reform the system and move the cap up or
down. But in an election year, few expect politicians to make big changes to
immigration law.

In the meantime, Microsoft recently opened a complex in Canada to accommodate
about 150 foreign engineers whom it was unable to fit in under last year's
program. The complex is located in an office park in Vancouver, relatively close
to Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Wash.

Microsoft officials said the average salary it pays a software engineer is
$109,000 in direct compensation.

"Canadian immigration laws work to bring these kind of people to the country,"
Krumholtz said. "They've seen the benefit."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 7, 2007 Wednesday 2:00 PM EST

Virginia Politics

BYLINE: Tim Craig, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2140 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post staff writer Tim Craig was online Wednesday, Nov. 7
at 2 p.m. to discuss the results of the Virginia elections for state Senate and
House of Delegates, as well as other local races.


Washington Post staff writer Tim Craig was online Wednesday, Nov. 7 at 2 p.m. to
discuss the results of the Virginia elections for state Senate and House of
Delegates, as well as other local races.

A transcript follows.

Voters Guide: Local Elections 2007

____________________

Tim Craig: Good afternoon. Happy to answer as many questions as I can. It was a
late night for us scribes. But hopefully everyone is enjoying the coverage.

_______________________

Fairfax Station, Va.: How do the results of the Virginia election influence how
to frame or focus the debate on illegal immigration in the national elections
next year? Would the Republican National Committee read different messages from
the results than the Democratic National Committee?

Tim Craig: Virginia's election showed immigration plays out very differently
depending on the location. In Prince William County, an outer suburb 40 minutes
south of the District, illegal immigration appears to have driven voters out to
the polls to support the GOP. Earlier this year, Democrats had hoped to pick up
several House seats in that county, but ended up narrowly winning just one. But
in Loudoun County, another suburb, growth and frustration with conservative
Republicans trumped immigration as a top concern. Immigration also appeared to
be somewhat of a dud for the GOP in Democratic-leaning Fairfax. But I would
caution not to read too much into yesterday's results. Clearly, illegal
immigration riles up the GOP base, particularly in middle class neighborhoods
that have seen an influx of immigrants searching for affordable housing and
jobs. If the GOP didn't have the issue this year, they may have lost a lot more
House and Senate seats.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Now that the elections are over, the candidates and their teams
are going to be removing the zillion eye-sore signs they've littered all over
the medians of most of our roads, correct?

Tim Craig: Hopefully. I think most localities have laws requiring candidates to
remove signs within a designated period after an election.

_______________________

Reston, Va.: Except for Prince Willian County, it looks like immigration was
pretty much a non-issue. Do you think the GOP will continue to focus on this as
we prepare for the larger stage of 2008?

Tim Craig: I do think the GOP will continue to focus on immigration. While it
may have limited appeal with moderates in many communities, I think it helps to
energize the base of the party. And as President Bush proved in 2000 and 2004, a
base versus base strategy sometimes can work.

_______________________

Vienna, Va.: What does this mean for the redistricting process after the 2010
census?

Tim Craig: It means Democrats are at least guaranteed a seat at the table during
redistricting. If the GOP had kept control of the Senate, Democrats would have
had to either win the 2009 governor's race or the House of Delegates in 2009 to
have a say in redistricting. (Va Senate is up every four years; House of
Delegates every two). Now, both parties will play a role, which usually means
status quo. But you never know, maybe the Democrats will win the governor's race
and retake the House in 2009 and have complete control to redraw the lines.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: So with the new Dems in the state legislature, are we going to
get a smoking ban anytime soon?

Tim Craig: Good question. Last year, the GOP-Senate approved a smoking ban, but
it was defeated in the House of Delegates. While Democrats picked up four House
seats yesterday, that chamber is still dominated by conservatives. And many
rural lawmakers are uneasy about supporting a smoking ban. In fact, some GOP
strategists say Republican Sen. Brandon Bell of Roanoke was defeated in the June
because he was the prime sponsor of the smoking ban. My prediction: no ban in
2008, but its only a matter of time.

_______________________

Anonymous: Do you think that Devolites-Davis' loss will result in Tom Davis
deciding not to run for re-election? He spent a small fortune from his campaign
war chest to help her out, to no avail. It really looks like the district has
become solidly Democratic.

Tim Craig: I think Davis could still run for reelection. It's true he spent half
of his campaign account on his wife's losing race. He also knows its now
undeniable that Fairfax is trending Democratic. But Davis will be under pressure
from the House GOP leadership to run for reelection. I think its safe to assume
he would remain favored to hold that seat for the GOP, although he will face a
tough race. But I imagine his decision will rest on what is best for him and his
family.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Any update on the Cuccinelli/Olezcek recount possibilities?

Tim Craig: You can follow the updates about the possible recount at
blog.washingtonpost.com/virginiapolitics. I posted a few earlier today

_______________________

Washington, DC: I guess there probably isn't much exit polling for these state
races but I would be interested if you had any insight about whether the GOP
immigration rhetoric may have helped to stem their losses in swing districts.

Tim Craig: Lots of immigration questions. I think immigration has slowed
Democrats' hopes of expanding into the outer suburbs. But I don't think its
playing well in the inner suburbs or Fairfax. (Immigration was an issue in
Republican Baise's campaign against Fairfax County Board Chairman Connolly. But
Connolly won with nearly 60 percent of the vote)... There also isn't much
evidence that immigration was a big factor in Hampton Roads, where the GOP lost
two House and two Senate seats. My early analysis: in a statewide race,
immigration helps the GOP in some of the rapidly growing areas of the state.
That's the good news. The bad news is many of those new residents are
minorities, so it's only a matter of time before the issue could backfire.
Short-term gains may mean long-term consequences.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: So what becomes of the Driver Abuse Fees? Has anybody proposed
changes or abolishing them? I see Albo won (too bad), but what became of his
co-sponsor?

Tim Craig: It's hard to tell how many people were brought out because of the
abuser fees. But it's safe to say it was far less than the 177,000 who signed
that petition this summer saying they would turnout. The fact only one incumbent
House Republican lost (Democrats also picked up three open seats) shows abuser
fees may not have been the issue it was thought to have been. Also, Del. Thomas
Davis Rust (R-Fairfax, one the sponsors of the fees, won by 5 percentage points.
But the abuser fees hurt the GOP, regardless. GOP candidates had hoped to
campaign this fall on their transportation plan. But because of the unpopular
fees, most candidates couldn't take credit for raising money to fix roads. As
for Dave Albo (R-Fairfax), he was running unopposed. But 12 percent of the
electorate in that district wrote in a candidate instead of voting for him. Albo
will be a top Democratic target in 2009.

_______________________

Clifton, Va.: With the state trending toward Blue, and the Dems fielding Mark
Warner to run for Senate, what possible strategy can Gilmore pursue to win?

Tim Craig: Gilmore strategy may be able to be summed up in two words: "Hillary
Clinton." (But polls show Clinton is no more polarizing in Virginia than other
Democratic or Republican candidate). Gilmore will also try to paint Warner as a
liberal, who raised taxes, wants to weaken the military and is out of step with
voters on social issues. It almost sounds like Terry Kilgore's campaign against
Tim Kaine in 2005. We know how that ended up. Warner remains a favorite, but
expect the race to tighten considerably next year. And, yes, it's still possible
Hillary Clinton (or whoever the Democratic nominee is) will be a drag on Warner.
But it's also possible Warner could remain popular enough that he creates an
up-ballot effect where he wins votes for the Democratic presidential nominee.

_______________________

Vienna, Va.: Besides redistricting, what changes can we expect? Or are we in for
two more years of rhetoric and status quo?

Tim Craig: To be honest, gridlock. House Republicans remain conservative. Senate
will be controlled by moderates, both Democrats and Republicans. Kaine may act
either a moderate or a progressive, depending on the issue. And very little will
get done. I could be wrong. Last year, at this time, I wouldn't have bet that
the House and Senate and Kaine would all agree on a transportation plan. But
because some of the conservative House members felt burned after they supported
the transportation plan - which included the unpopular abuser fees - I suspect
they will be less likely to compromise in the future.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Will it take a major scandal to get someone other than a
Democrat elected to the Arlington County Board -- even an independent? The signs
of arrogance are mounting, from the pontifications on the "world class"
community and "first-rate" school system (in their eyes only) to the refusals to
answer straightforward questions and obvious mistakes to the stonewalling on
serious quality-of-life issues. I'm waiting for a procurement scandal on one of
their capital projects to surface.

Tim Craig: I have not been covering theseraces closely. Someone else wrote in
saying a Republican had been elected to the Board this year. I will see if I can
figure this out and get back to you. But to get to your question, I think a
Republican can get elected to the board but they may first have to find a way to
hide they are a Republican.

_______________________

Winchester, Va.: There seems to be a definite sea change in Virginia politics:
Jim Webb, Tim Kaine, and now the entire Senate going Democratic. Do you
attribute it to the war, the President or something else?

Tim Craig: I think a lot of it has to do with is demographics. Much of Virginia
is not changing that much. Outside of Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads, its a
solidly Red state. George Allen actually increased his vote margins in many
rural counties in 2006. But as Northern Virginia becomes more diverse, its
attitudes about a host of issues - guns, gays, social issues, taxes - are
shifting as well. But I do think Bush and the war have helped accelerate the
trend. I also think Republicans will stage a comeback, perhaps as early as the
2009 governor's race. But they need to find a leader and a message that appeals
to the growing parts of the state.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Is Gov. Kaine any more likely to make progress on his major
initiatives, such as targeted prekindergarten expansion, given the Republicans
still control the House and the state's fiscal picture remains tough?

Tim Craig: Talked to Kaine earlier today. He thinks his chance for winning
passage of pre-K improved after yesterday's vote. But he still has to convince
the GOP-controlled House of Delegates. It will be interesting to see whether
Kaine looks to bargain with House to get it approved or whether he launches
another campaign to gin up public support to force the House to act.

_______________________

Ballston: Tim:

Overall, how was the voter turnout this year compared to years past? I know that
in 2003 something like 26 percent of eligible voters actually voted, did the
possibility of one or both legislative bodies changing hands bring more voters
out this year?

Tim Craig: In 2003, the last year the House and Senate were both on the ballot,
31 percent of voters showed up at the polls. I have not seen the statewide
figure for this year yet.

But I found this interesting: In the three hotly contested races in Fairfax
County, turnout was 39 percent in the race between Democrat J. Chapman "Chap"
Petersen and Republican Sen. Jeannemarie Devolites Davis. In the race between
Democrat George Barker and GOP Sen. Jay O'Brien, the turnout was 34 percent
Petersen won by 5,000 votes. Barker won by 800 votes.

But in the race between Democrat Oleszek and GOP Sen. Ken Cuccinelli, the
turnout was only 32 percent. Cuccinelli is ahead by 94 votes, pending a possible
recount. This suggests that, when turnout got above 30 percent in Fairfax
County, it were Democrats who were showing up at the polls. If Oleszek could
have convinced just a few hundred more people to vote, she probably would have
won.

_______________________

Tim Craig: Ok. That is all the time I have. If you have any more questions, you
can email me at craigt@washpost.com Also check out our Virginia Politics blog at
blog.washingtonpost.com/virginiapolitics

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    November 15, 2007 Thursday 12:00 AM EST

Why Illegal Immigration Alone Doesn't Matter

BYLINE: Steven Malanga, Special to washingtonpost.com's Think Tank Town,
washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 808 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hillary Clinton helped to elevate immigration to a central position
in the Presidential election when she waffled on the question of whether she
favored drivers' licenses for illegal immigrants. Yet much of the public
discussion that has followed Clinton's confrontation with questioner Tim Russert
has focused only on illegal immigrants. We still know very little about what the
candidates would do to reform our broken system of legal immigration.


Hillary Clinton helped to elevate immigration to a central position in the
Presidential election when she waffled on the question of whether she favored
drivers' licenses for illegal immigrants. Yet much of the public discussion that
has followed Clinton's confrontation with questioner Tim Russert has focused
only on illegal immigrants. We still know very little about what the candidates
would do to reform our broken system of legal immigration.

Our current system results from changes begun in the mid-1960s, when the country
scrapped its old immigration policy, based on quotas determined by a person's
national origin, in favor of broader hemispheric quotas and visa preferences for
family members of those already here. The framers of this new system claimed
that they were merely tinkering with policy. "Contrary to the charges in some
quarters, [the bill] will not inundate America with immigrants," Sen. Edward
Kennedy said.

But not only did legal immigration soar by 60 percent in the first 10 years
after the reform legislation; the origins of immigration shifted to poorer
countries around the world, and many new immigrants arrived with low levels of
education and little job training, stranding them in low-paying jobs and slowing
their economic mobility. A recent study by Harvard economists George Boras and
Lawrence Katz of Mexican immigrants who came here in the 1970s found that after
20 years in the American workforce these workers were still earning about 40
percent less than American-born workers -- a sharp contrast with earlier
generations of immigrants, who after several decades here tended to be virtually
at par with American workers. The economists also estimated that recently
arriving young Mexican workers (and Mexicans make up the largest category of
legal immigrants to the U.S.) were starting off with an even bigger wage
disadvantage relative to American workers than their predecessors did in the
1970s.

As a result of findings like this, many economists who study immigration don't
even distinguish between legals and illegals. Instead, the line of demarcation
for them is between low-skill immigrants with little education and better
educated, better trained immigrants.

Other modern, industrialized countries that are, like the United States, magnets
for immigrants, have reshaped their immigration policy in the last 20 years to
favor the better trained immigrant. But there are important policy differences
among those countries.

Australia, for instance, has among the most detailed systems, which relies on
employment surveys to identify hundreds of job categories where workers are
needed -- from blue collar trades to highly technical jobs. Today, 70 percent of
Australia's immigration is skills based.

Canada has opted for a less complicated, broader approach, favoring immigrants
with higher levels of education but not giving preferences to specific trades or
job categories.

In a different vein, Ireland, whose economy has boomed since the early 1990s,
allows employers to drive much of the legal immigration system by requesting
visas for certain types of workers, with one very important qualifier: In order
to prevent employers from pushing down wages by importing workers in category
where domestic labor is already ample, Ireland creates lists of industries and
jobs where it won't grant visas for workers.

Our Congress made a stab at changing our legal system to one that was broadly
skills-based in the reform legislation proposed last summer. But other
provisions of that bill, especially amnesty for illegals and guest worker
programs, were so controversial that we never got around to debating the right
legal system. For instance, do we want a very specific system like Australia's,
where studies have shown that immigrants are doing very well, or a less
complicated, broader system like Canada's, where government plays less of role,
but the results are not as impressive economically as in Australia?

It's almost impossible to tell what the presidential candidates think is right
for us. Clinton and Barack Obama make vague statements in their campaign
materials about preserving the family preferences system, which amounts to
little reform. Mitt Romney has talked about the advantages that well educated
immigrants bring to our high-tech industries, but a well-rounded immigration
policy should be about more than just importing workers for Silicon Valley.

What the next president thinks is vitally important. Today, our immigration
system allows up to 1 million people to come here legally every year. That tells
us that the debate should be about more than what to do with our illegal
population.

The author is the senior editor of City Journal and co-author of The Immigration
Solution: A Better Plan Than Today's, which was published in November by Ivan R.
Dee.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 29, 2007 Thursday 9:29 AM EST

The Anderson Debate

BYLINE: Howard Kurtz, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 2374 words



HIGHLIGHT: So much for the YouTubers.


So much for the YouTubers.

It was the journalist who got last night's debate off to a rollicking start, in
which Rudy and Mitt smacked each other around over immigration.

You remember journalists. They used to run things before the rest of the world
started uploading videos.

I love YouTube. I like the idea of YouTube debates. But it was Anderson Cooper
who prodded the Republican candidates into revealing contrasts.

CNN began the debate with video from Ernie in Brooklyn, who accused his former
mayor of aiding and abetting illegal immigrants by presiding over a sanctuary
city. Giuliani said he had no choice but to educate the kids of illegal
immigrants but turned over the names of thousands of grown-ups to INS.

It was then that Cooper asked Romney whether New York was a sanctuary city.
Romney said the immigrants were already committing a crime by being here
illegally. Rudy accused Mitt of having a "sanctuary mansion" by employing
illegal immigrants at his home. Romney called that offensive and asked whether
homeowners who hired a legal company to do household work should ask to see the
papers of employees from that company who have funny accents. Rudy talked about
his "holier-than-thou attitude" when illegal immigrants were "under your nose."

Now that was a debate. And it was Cooper who made it happen.

Perhaps a minute after the extended exchange, the Giuliani campaign sent
reporters an e-mail titled "Don't take our word for it." It contained a 2006
Boston Globe piece headlined, "Illegal immigrants toiled for governor."

Two minutes after that, a Romney e-mail arrived declaring: "Mayor Giuliani Ran
New York City With a Sanctuary State of Mind." Enclosed was a 1994 New York
Times piece quoting Rudy: "If you come here and you work hard and you happen to
be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this
city."

Fifteen minutes later, the Mitt gang circulated a posting from National Review's
The Corner: "I'm leaning Rudy, but he's all wrong on the Romney illegal
immigrant yard workers. They were working for a legal immigrant's legal company,
a company widely used."

Back in Florida, a Texas woman named Ashley asked Mike Huckabee about providing
college discounts for children of illegal immigrants when he was Arkansas
governor. It sounded a little weird when Huckabee said "Ashley . . . you're a
little misinformed" to a woman who wasn't there. Romney showed he now takes Huck
seriously by likening him to "liberals in Massachusetts" (a big-time insult at
GOP gatherings). Huckabee got off a pretty good line when he lectured Romney
that "we're a better country than to punish children for what their parents
did."

John McCain also had his moments, particularly when he lectured Romney for
punting on whether waterboarding is torture.

There was one world-class screwup: The retired military man who asked why gays
can't serve was a Hillary Clinton adviser, as CNN acknowledged after the debate.
As for the man with the gun, the shifty-eyed Bible-wielder, Uncle Sam, the
cartoon Cheney and others, they seemed either weird or trivialized their issues.

One last point: Cooper was smart to ask Rudy about this Politico story posted
hours earlier: "Rudy Giuliani billed obscure city agencies for tens of thousands
of dollars in security expenses amassed during the time when he was beginning an
extramarital relationship with future wife Judith Nathan in the Hamptons,
according to previously undisclosed government records." But Anderson left out
the Judi part! (Giuliani said he was under 24-guard because of threats and
didn't handle the billing.)

"The Republican presidential candidates engaged in a slashing debate last night
over immigration and other issues, confronting one another in testy exchanges
that reflected the wide-open nature of the race in the final sprint toward the
Iowa caucuses," says the New York Times.

"The debate also reflected a new reality in the Republican race: for the first
time, several candidates used the debate to take shots at Mike Huckabee, the
former Arkansas governor who has come from behind to surge in several polls of
Iowa caucusgoers in recent weeks."

L.A. Times: "As the debate continued over two hours, the most frequent target
was former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, who has been a leader in the two
states that loom largest in the early voting -- Iowa and New Hampshire.

"Romney was attacked from all sides, on multiple issues. Former New York Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani accused him of employing illegal immigrants, while former
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee suggested that he was heartless for opposing college
scholarships for immigrants. Sen. John McCain of Arizona faulted Romney for
refusing to concede that an interrogation practice called waterboarding amounts
to torture. And former Sen. Fred Thompson of Tennessee -- via a campaign video
-- chided the former governor for changing his position on abortion."

Washington Times: "The eighth Republican debate got off to a blistering start
and quickly became the Mitt and Rudy Show, with the two front-running candidates
going toe to toe on immigration, interrupting each other until they were booed
by the boisterous crowd."

Slate's John Dickerson: "Romney is unlikely to win this tit-for-tat. Sure, every
fight he picks with Giuliani helps him solidify the idea that the GOP contest is
really only a two-man race (Huckabee who?), but in every round of this fight
Romney is going to come out on the short end. On the merits, he's right:
Giuliani bends the facts. Factcheck.org could start a Rudycheck.org subsidiary
to accommodate their regular reports on his shadings, exaggerations, and willful
distortions. But on the political scorecard, Giuliani's charge about Romney has
more political punch than Romney's about Giuliani . . .

"In this uneven exchange, Giuliani is also hitting on Romney's essential
weakness--that he doesn't have core convictions. Romney's punches, even if they
land, don't go directly to Giuliani's core vulnerability. Nor do they diminish
Giuliani's best attribute--his reputation as a tough leader."

National Review's Jim Geraghty: "Based on the tone and answers given tonight,
you would think that the Republican Party seethes with a blistering resentment
of immigrants, with only the briefest of pauses to distinguish between those who
are illegal and legal. You would think that the only tax plan that they like is
the Fair Tax, and that they would like to somehow eliminate all taxes and let
somebody else figure out how to fund the parts of the government that are
actually needed. Guys, I thought we were small-government conservatives, not
no-government anarchists.

Andrew Sullivan:

"McCain soared tonight, in my view. I think McCain's experience, independent
streak, fiscal responsibility, moral core, and national security mastery make
him easily the best viable candidate on stage. Yes, I am immensely proud of Ron
Paul. And after Iraq, I find his non-interventionism far more credible than
McCain's full neocon jacket. But experience does count; and McCain is in a class
of his own in wartime . . .

"Nonetheless, it's clear that today's Dixie-based, pro-torture, anti-immigrant
GOP will find it very hard to accept the bipartisan, anti-torture supporter of
comprehensive immigration reform as its candidate."

As for the torture question, "It's a defining issue and this was a defining
moment. Romney's pathetic and despicable inability to say that he opposes
waterboarding and that waterboarding is torture disqualifies him from the
presidency, in my view."

Salon's Walter Shapiro hated the questions (and disagreed with me about Cooper's
role):

"What sent me into a free fall of depression was CNN's instinct for the fatuous
in choosing the debate questions. It is a disgrace that in a two-hour debate (it
felt longer) there was not a single question about the Israeli-Palestinian
negotiations, the pow[d]er keg in Pakistan or Iran. The fault is not with the
earnest YouTubers who sent in questions. The blame entirely rests with Anderson
Cooper (a debate host who seemed incapable of asking a relevant followup
question) and his CNN cohorts who seemed more concerned with goosing the ratings
than with grasping the world that the next president will inherit."

How seriously is the press now taking the Huckabee candidacy? Enough so that the
AP has called out the fact-checking dogs:

"Huckabee's campaign set up a 'truth squad' to push his side of various stories.
It often offers, at best, an incomplete account of his record. On major issues:

"--The truth squad says the only finding by the Arkansas Ethics Commission that
Huckabee accepted a gift improperly was tossed out by a state court. In fact,
the panel investigated 16 complaints against Huckabee and found five violations.
Only one, for accepting a $500 canoe from Coca-Cola, was tossed out.

"Two of the complaints against Huckabee pertain to unreported gifts -- the canoe
and a $200 stadium blanket received by his wife, Janet. Two stem from cash the
governor or his wife received but did not initially report. The panel also ruled
in 2003 that Huckabee's campaign violated state law when it used its funds to
pay for an event during the summer of 2002 called Gospel Fest

"During his tenure, Huckabee accepted 314 gifts valued overall at more than
$150,000, according to documents filed with the Arkansas secretary of state's
office. (He accepted 187 gifts in his first three years as governor but was not
required to report their value.)"

My carefully considered reaction: A canoe?

Bill Clinton is stirring controversy again, this time on Iraq. At Red State,
California Yankee checks the paper trail:

"Bill Clinton made a political blunder of monumental proportions when he claimed
that he 'opposed the war in Iraq 'from the beginning,' a statement even the New
York Times found 'is more absolute than his comments before the invasion in
March 2003.'

"Is More Absolute?

" 'It depends on what the meaning of the word "is" is' - President Clinton

"At Time, Mark Halperin reminds us that Mr. Clinton said he supported the War in
2003. On April 14, 2003, Clinton praised President Bush:

" 'In his first speech in Minnesota since leaving office, former President Bill
Clinton on Sunday praised President Bush's handling of the war in Iraq. But he
criticized Bush's domestic priorities and urged the administration to offer
North Korea aid and a pledge of nonaggression in exchange for an end to that
country's missile and nuclear weapons programs.' [Minneapolis Star Tribune,
4/14/03]

"On May 19, 2003, the Associated Press reported Clinton said he supported
President Bush:

" 'Former President Bill Clinton accused President Bush of spending more time
fighting the war on terrorism than on domestic issues during a commencement
speech at Tougaloo College. 'I supported the president when he asked for
authority to stand up against weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, but we can't
be forever strong abroad if we don't keep getting better at home,' Clinton said
Sunday to a crowd of about 8,000 . . . The Bush administration, Clinton said,
'is still focused on defeating terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, and
that's good, but not good enough. The power of our example is just as important
as our military might.' '

"Clinton may have questioned the timing of the invasion, but Clinton didn't
oppose it 'from the beginning.' "

At the Carpetbagger Report, Steve Benen can't defend the ex-prez:

"The problem, of course, is that Clinton has a reputation for trying to straddle
the fence on contentious questions, hoping to be 'all things to all people.' The
'from the beginning' reinforces the narrative -- and takes Sen. Clinton's
campaign off-message . . .

"I don't doubt for a second that Bill Clinton is wildly popular, and a real
asset to his wife's presidential campaign. But he's going to have to be
disciplined on the stump."

Liberty Pundit is a tad harsher:

"I've always said that Clinton is a poll-based politician, that he never was for
or against an issue until he saw how the public perceived it. Make no mistake,
if the public were totally for the war today, he'd be standing there saying 'oh,
yeah, I was always for it!' And what's really crazy is that people on the left
who look at this man as their liberal icon or like he was some kind of hero
don't seem to get that fact."

Left-wingers are trying to drive a stake through the heart of a poll purporting
to show that Hillary would lose to several Repubs next year. Kos tees off:

"I know Hillary's opponents are jumping on Zogby Interactive's latest poll
showing Hillary doing substantially poorer than her opponents in head-to-head
matchups than her opponents.

"Let me make this as clear as possible: Zogby interactive polls are JUNK. They
are about as solid as the Daily Kos cattle call polls would be if we were trying
to claim the community represented all Democrats.

"Witness this little bit of disclaimer:

" The poll of 9,355 people had a margin of error of plus or minus one percentage
point. The interactive poll surveys individuals who have registered to take part
in online polls.

"How a poll that is essentially a web poll can be considered credible is beyond
me."

Did Obama insert all five toes in his mouth? The New Republic's Noam Scheiber
thinks so:

"I think he's homing in on an effective response to Clinton's experience
argument. But, if he's going to get over the hump in Iowa, he may need tone down
the ego a bit, and what seemed like a whiff of condescension. You've probably
already seen his line about how 'Every place is Barack Obama country once Barack
Obama's been there.' This response also stood out for me:

" ' I think there's no doubt that the fact that my name is Barack Obama and that
my father was from Kenya and that I grew up in Hawaii that there's that whole
exotic aspect to me that people, I think, have to get past. But they also,
surprisingly enough, even in rural Iowa, recognize the opportunity to send a
signal to the world that, you know, we are not as ingrown, as parochial as you
may perceive or as the Bush administration seems to have communicated, that we
are, in fact, embracing the world, we are listening, we are concerned, we want
to be engaged.

"I suspect the 'even in rural Iowa' part could stick in some people's craws."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 30, 2007 Friday 7:57 AM EST

Sanctuary From the Facts?

BYLINE: Howard Kurtz, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2580 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Rudy-Romney dustup was great television as the two men went toe
to toe over immigration. But I want to dwell for a moment on the substance.


The Rudy-Romney dustup was great television as the two men went toe to toe over
immigration. But I want to dwell for a moment on the substance.

Giuliani did talk about welcoming illegal immigrants when he was mayor. Whether
New York was a sanctuary city or not, he recognized the need for illegal workers
to be able to report crimes, and to educate the 70,000 kids of illegal workers.
Now, for obvious reasons, he tries to sound less sympathetic to illegal
immigration.

Mitt didn't do much to crack down on sanctuary cities in Massachusetts, either,
and while he touts winning federal approval for his state police to go after
illegals, that took effect two weeks before he left office.

Huckabee was asked how he could allow college scholarship for the kids of
illegal immigrants. He explained that the kids had to have been in the school
system all their lives, have A-plus averages and be applying for citizenship.
When Romney criticized that stance as a waste of taxpayers' money, Huck said:
"In all due respect, we are a better country than to punish children for what
their parents did."

Whatever your views on immigration, here's my point: Governors and mayors have
to deal with real-world problems. The 12 million illegal immigrants in this
country (some of whom were granted amnesty in 1986 by the sainted Ronald Reagan,
when the problem was much smaller) aren't going anywhere. They are so embedded
in our society that some of them wound up taking care of Mitt Romney's lawn.

I understand the outrage at those who broke the law to sneak into this country.
But it's easier to criticize the problem from a stage than to run states and
cities that are teeming with illegals.

It's like the debate over taxes. Virtually every governor who's in office long
enough raises them at some point, as Huckabee did, while cutting them at other
times, depending on the heating and cooling of the economy. (Yes, even Reagan
raised taxes.) Then an opponent comes along and denounces them as tax-hikers.
But virtually all governors are constitutionally required to balance their
budgets. They don't have the option of printing money like the folks in
Washington.

The NYT, by the way, has a big piece on Rudy's mayoral claims. Money graf:

"All of these statements are incomplete, exaggerated or just plain wrong. And
while, to be sure, all candidates use misleading statistics from time to time,
Mr. Giuliani has made statistics a central part of his candidacy as he campaigns
on his record."

Ever wonder what it's like spending a day trailing Hillary around New Hampshire?
My report on the candidate and the press is here.

Turning now to the controversy over CNN's YouTube debate, here is what I've
pieced together:

CNN expressed regret yesterday for allowing a Hillary Clinton adviser to ask a
question at Wednesday's Republican presidential debate, even as controversy
swirled about two other questioners who have declared their support for
Democratic candidates.

Retired Brig. Gen. Keith Kerr, who asked why gays should not be allowed to serve
openly in the military, is a member of Clinton's steering committee on gay and
lesbian issues, something her campaign disclosed in a news release in June.

"Had we known that, we probably wouldn't have used the question," said David
Bohrman, CNN's Washington bureau chief, who produced the debate. He added that
"you could spend hours Googling everybody. What we cared about was that he was
real." CNN deleted Kerr's question from a rebroadcast of the debate.

The New York senator's campaign said in a statement that "Gen. Kerr is not a
campaign employee and was not acting on behalf of the Clinton campaign."

Kerr, a Californian who said he became openly gay after 43 years in the
military, was one of 5,000 people who submitted videotaped questions through
YouTube. CNN also placed Kerr in the St. Petersburg, Fla., audience, where he
followed up by calling the current "don't ask, don't tell" policy "destructive."

Moderator Anderson Cooper acknowledged the error involving Kerr after Bill
Bennett, the conservative author and radio host who is a network contributor,
raised it during a post-debate discussion. Bennett said yesterday that his radio
producer e-mailed him information from a National Review blog.

"It shouldn't have ever happened," Bennett said. "You've got to vet that sort of
thing."

On CNN's "American Morning," Kerr said he has done nothing for the Clinton
campaign and that the video was "a private initiative on my own." He also said
he has supported Republicans.

Bohrman said network staffers, struck by Kerr's "very powerful" question,
verified his military service and determined from federal records that he had
made no campaign contributions. He said CNN never spoke to Kerr and had Google,
which owns YouTube, bring the retired general and about a dozen other
questioners to the debate because their videos were likely to be used, although
no decision had been made.

CNN teamed with YouTube in July for a Democratic debate that marked the first
such use of citizen-submitted videos. The Republican debate was delayed because
of candidate concerns about the format.

Bohrman said the network rejected "quite a few" questioners who were found to
have public ties or donations to other candidates. He said the network's goal
was to avoid "obvious Democratic 'gotcha' questions."

Another YouTube questioner, a Texas woman who identified herself as "Journey,"
asked what the punishment should be for women who have abortions and the doctors
who perform them, if the procedure were made illegal. After the debate, she
posted another YouTube video criticizing the candidates' responses -- while
wearing a "John Edwards 08" T-shirt.

A third questioner, David Cercone, asked the candidates whether they would
accept the support of the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay organization.

In a profile on Sen. Barack Obama's Web site, Cercone wrote about "why I support
Barack Obama: He is a leader who inspires me with his sincerity, his
earnestness, and his vision for change."

Conservative bloggers, some of whom deride CNN as the "Clinton News Network,"
ripped the network yesterday. At InstaPundit, Glenn Reynolds wrote: "Once again,
CNN demonstrates an inexplicable failure to background-check pro-Hillary
questioners." Scott Johnson of PowerLine wrote that "CNN has shown itself unable
or unwilling to act as an honest broker."

James Joyner at Outside the Beltway, said: "If lone bloggers can vet these
people in less than half an hour, surely CNN's crack journalistic team should
have been able to do so between the time they selected the pool of questions and
the airing of the debate?"

Bohrman said he had no problem using questioners who have voiced support for
other candidates as long as they are not donors or formally affiliated with any
campaign. "We bent over backwards to be fair," he said. "We're not perfect. But
we tried extremely hard."

Here's some more reaction. Captain Ed is less exercised than some of his
conservative colleagues:

"Bad journalistic practices? Definitely yes. But does that negate the questions
themselves? I don't think so. The CNN/YouTube format closely parallels that of
the traditional town-hall forum. For the most part, attendees do not get vetted
at these events either, nor should they. After all, while a primary usually
involves voters of one party, the entire nation has a stake in the selection of
the nominees. If Hillary Clinton held a town hall in my community, I should have
an opportunity to question her about her positions on issues without pledging a
loyalty oath to do so.

"The questions asked don't seem particularly outrageous."

Fred Barnes says the whole thing stunk:

"This debate not only was mortifying to the candidates. It also should have been
embarrassing to the viewers, especially Republican voters who might have been
watching.

"I don't know if the folks who put the debate together were purposely trying to
make the Republican candidates look bad, but they certainly succeeded. True, the
candidates occasionally contributed. For the first few minutes, Rudy Giuliani
and Mitt Romney continued their debate over their records on immigration and did
so with the kind of intensity that this trivial matter didn't warrant. These are
two fine candidates who have only themselves to blame for looking petty.

"But it was chiefly the questions and who asked them that made the debate so
appalling. By my recollection, there were no questions on health care, the
economy, trade, the S-chip children's health care issue, the 'surge' in Iraq,
the spending showdown between President Bush and Congress, terrorist
surveillance, or the performance of the Democratic Congress.

"Instead there were questions--ones moderator Anderson Cooper kept insisting had
required a lot of time and effort by the questioners--on the Confederate flag,
Mars, Giuliani's rooting for the Boston Red Sox in the World Series, whether Ron
Paul might run as an independent for president, and the Bible."

At the New Republic, Noam Scheiber gives Romney and Rudy mixed grades:

"I thought Romney hit the right note on immigration, at least from the
perspective of GOP voters. His response to Giuliani's accusation that he
operated a 'sanctuary mansion'--a reference to having illegal aliens do some
work around his house--was persuasive. It does seem a bit much to suggest, as
Rudy did, that you should be responsible for whether or not a contractor you
hire might be employing illegal aliens--or, as Romney put it, that you should
demand papers from anyone who looks a little different or speaks with an accent.

"Romney also seemed to get the better of the exchange with Mike Huckabee over
making (non-citizen) children of illegal immigrants eligible for state-funded
college scholarships. Huckabee offered what I thought was a wonderful, humane
defense of the program--about not punishing kids for their parents' crimes,
about how you'd rather have people get educations than not, etc.--but I suspect
that's a step too far for most GOP primary voters. Romney's point about how
Huckabee might have had great intentions, but that doesn't make it right, will
probably resonate . . .

"Romney's weakest moment by far was his attempt to square his previous comments
on gays in the military--that he looks forward to a day when they can serve
openly--with his rightward turn on social issues. He seemed caught off guard by
the question, and his response--that this is not the time to consider
it--sounded like the worst of both worlds . . .

"Giuliani, as I mentioned, seemed a little over the top during the 'sanctuary
mansion' attack. He also did a lousy job fielding a question about gun
control--leading with the point that local governments should be able to impose
some common-sense restrictions, which the gun crowd hears as code for taking
their firearms away."

A new wrinkle in the Rudy/Judi story, from ABC:

"Well before it was publicly known he was seeing her, then-married New York
Mayor Rudy Giuliani provided a police driver and city car for his mistress
Judith Nathan, former senior city officials tell the Blotter on ABCNews.com.
'She used the PD as her personal taxi service,' said one former city official
who worked for Giuliani."

Dick Polman isn't buying Rudy's attempt to explain away the original Politico
story on the allocation of security costs for the mayor and his gal pal (what
the New York Post dubs his "TRYST FUND"):

"What the documented evidence strongly suggests is that Rudy was tomcatting with
his extramarital lover on the taxpayer's dime, and trying to cover his tracks.
He and his security team repeatedly took summer visits to Southampton, the Long
Island town where future third wife Judith Nathan had an apartment - there are
few indications in the records that he was visiting Southampton on official
business - and all the security costs were subsequently squirreled away in the
budgets of obscure city offices.

"Anyway, [Anderson] Cooper asked if the squirreling was true. Rudy replied:
'First of all, it's not true. I had 24-hour security for the eight years that I
was mayor. They followed me everyplace I went.' . . .

"His first sentence was a lie. The squirreling was true - because, as the
Politico story made clear, the fiscal watchdogs in the city comptroller's office
discovered the squirreling and tried to get some answers from the mayor. But the
watchdogs were repeatedly stonewalled . . .

"The Huck got off easy . . . Perhaps Mitt and Rudy were concerned that, by
assailing him, they would risk ticking off Huckabee's growing corps of religious
conservative supporters. The result was that Huckabee was able to praise his own
record as an Arkansas governor ('I have a great record on fiscal conservatism'),
without being challenged on the facts. Huckabee bragged last night, for
instance, that 'I cut 90 taxes' as governor, leaving out the fact that he also
raised 21 taxes during his tenure, and presided over a net tax hike at the end
of his tenure. But nobody on stage bothered to point this out."

CBN's David Brody, who's widely read on the right, likes Mike:

"It was Mike Huckabee who may have had the best night. Put aside the issues for
a moment. Don't you get the sense that Huckabee comes across as an extremely
effective communicator?

"Whether you agree with him or not, it seemed like every issue he talked about
Wednesday had a well thought out, coherent argument behind it. When he speaks,
the tone and words flow harmoniously. I mean his answer about the Bible being
the word of God came across as humble, accurate and inclusive. Hard to do. On a
question about 'What would Jesus do' when it comes to the death penalty,
Huckabee's answer was heartfelt conflict yet strong. And then this line of the
debate: 'Jesus was too smart to run for public office!'

"Even on the tricky question of whether he'll accept the endorsement of the gay
Log Cabin Republicans group, Huckabee said that he needs all the help he can
get. So sure he'll accept but won't change his position on same sex marriage. He
even said he wants to be that group's President and everybody's President. Good
answer, right? Or how about the line about space exploration when he said,
'Maybe Hillary can be on the first rocket to Mars.' "

That was the one line that struck me as a little harsh.

Are rumors about Obama a front-page story? TPM's Greg Sargent unloads on a
Washington Post piece headlined "Foes Use Obama's Muslim Ties to Fuel Rumors
About Him":

"Look -- Obama is not 'dogged by Muslim rumors.' He is the victim of a smear
campaign based on lies. These two things are not the same. And incidentally, to
whatever extent Obama is 'dogged' by these rumors, surely this will only be
facilitated when news orgs like WaPo fail to make a serious effort to knock them
down before printing them.

"Just to be clear, CBS probably wouldn't be running with this headline if WaPo
hadn't done such a bad job on the story. It portrayed the 'rumors' as being
still in dispute, rather than labeling them false, and it told readers that they
had only been denied by Obama and his advisers without noting that a central
piece of the smear -- that he attended a madrassa -- had been called out as
false by a top official at the school he attended."

I can't understand why the story didn't mention that the official at the
Indonesian elementary school alleged to have been a madrassa--according to an
unsourced story in the conservative online magazine Insight--had told CNN it had
always been a public school and not a religious school.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 6, 2008 Thursday 12:00 AM EST

Counting Down to May 6 Vote;
With Filing Deadline Past, Races Gear Up in N.Va. Towns

BYLINE: Kristen Mack and Bill Turque, Washington Post Staff Writers, Post

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 780 words



HIGHLIGHT: Two years after an election dominated by bitter divisions over the
impact of illegal immigration, the races for Herndon mayor and Town Council are
focused on other issues.


Two years after an election dominated by bitter divisions over the impact of
illegal immigration, the races for Herndon mayor and Town Council are focused on
other issues.

The future of downtown development and a budget shortfall driven by a poor
housing market are near the top of the agenda in the May 6 contests. Voters in
several other Northern Virginia cities and towns also will go to the polls that
day to select mayors, town councils and school boards. Tuesday was the filing
deadline for races in the area of Fairfax, Loudoun and Prince William counties.
Unless otherwise noted, the seats are nonpartisan.

Stephen J. DeBenedittis unseated Michael L. O'Reilly as mayor of Herndon in 2006
in what was widely viewed as voter backlash against a government-subsidized
day-laborer center the town opened in 2005. The center was designed to give
immigrant workers a place to gather and seek employment. But after much debate,
it was closed last year.

DeBenedittis faces opposition from council member J. Harlon Reece, who said he
has grown troubled by the divisions over the immigration issue. Also in
contention is businessman Jasbinder Singh.

Ten candidates are vying for six council seats. They include four members
elected in 2006: Connie Haines Hutchinson, David A. Kirby, William B. Tirrell
Sr. and Charlie D. Waddell. Dennis D. Husch also is seeking reelection. The
challengers are Richard F. Downer, Penny Halpern, Arthur Nachman, Sheila Olem
and James A. Vickery.

Downer, who served on the council from 1971 to 1974 and 1990 to 2000, said that
although illegal immigration remains an issue in Herndon -- day laborers seeking
work have returned to the streets -- other issues, such as downtown development
and the town's finances, need attention. "We can't afford for it to be the
dominant issue anymore," he said.

In Fairfax City, 11 candidates will compete for six City Council seats. They
include incumbents Joan W. Cross, Jeffrey C. Greenfield, Gary J. Rasmussen and
Patrice M. Winter. The challengers are Daniel F. Drummond, William G. Foster,
Kim Luckabaugh, David L. Meyer, W. Randy Myers, Gerald T. O'Dell and Steven C.
Stombres. Mayor Robert F. Lederer is seeking reelection. He faces Cristina Lee
Gaines and Rosemary F. McDowell.

In Vienna and Clifton, incumbents face no opposition.

Some of the most heated contests in the Loudoun area are in Purcellville, where
Mayor Robert W. Lazaro Jr. is being challenged by former Town Council member
Karl R. Phillips. Lazaro defeated Phillips in 2006.

Phillips leads a slate of three Town Council candidates who have pledged to drop
a lawsuit against the county over its plans to build a high school at Fields
Farm. Six candidates, including two incumbents, are running for three council
seats.

Lazaro has opposed the school, saying it would violate a 1995 land-use agreement
that requires town approval of the school's construction. He called Phillips a
"one-issue candidate" and said that although a new school is needed to relieve
crowding, allowing the county to violate its agreement with the town would set a
bad precedent.

"A contract is a contract," said Lazaro, who wants the county to pay for road
and utility improvements to offset the impact of a new school. "The campaign is
not about the high school. It's about leadership and judgment."

Phillips said that the lawsuit, which has reached the state Supreme Court, has
strained relations between the town and county and that it does not have a
"legal leg to stand on."

"The consequences are obvious: The relationship between the town and the county
is horrible," Phillips said. "I think it's the main concern people have in
Purcellville. . . . I just think it's a huge waste of money."

Lovettsville also has a contested mayoral race. Richard T. Greene is challenging
incumbent Elaine D. Walker.

In Manassas, no Democrats have filed for the three City Council seats up for
election or for mayor. The makeup of the council will not change much; one
newcomer is running for office.

In January, a Republican nominating convention chose a three-member slate that
emphasized "practical" and "sensible" solutions to the city's problems,
including immigration, which has been the dominant issue in Prince William area
government and politics since 2006.

Manassas Mayor Douglas Waldron is stepping down. He will be replaced by Vice
Mayor Harry J. "Hal" Parrish II.

Incumbents Jonathan L. Way and Steven S. Smith and newcomer Mark D. Wolfe are
running for the seats up for election on the six-member council. Council members
are elected to four-year terms.

Dumfries, Haymarket, Occoquan and Quantico also have contested council races.

Staff writer Jonathan Mummolo contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 25, 2008 Tuesday 12:00 AM EST

To Illegal Immigrants, Md. Feeling Less Friendly

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writers, Post

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 1263 words



HIGHLIGHT: Public anger against illegal immigrants, already entrenched in parts
of Northern Virginia, is seeping into Maryland. With legislators facing
unprecedented demands to take action, fears of a crackdown are spreading among
illegal immigrants in a state that has been more tolerant of them.


Public anger against illegal immigrants, already entrenched in parts of Northern
Virginia, is seeping into Maryland. With legislators facing unprecedented
demands to take action, fears of a crackdown are spreading among illegal
immigrants in a state that has been more tolerant of them.

A record 20 bills targeting illegal immigrants have been introduced in the state
legislature this session. Although none of the bills is expected to survive,
their supporters are far more vocal and organized than in the past, and the
movement has gained recent support in Maryland communities that include Mount
Rainier, Gaithersburg and Taneytown.

"If there is any doubt that people like me truly represent the overwhelming
majority on this issue, show some courage and put it on a referendum," Margaret
Montuori of Bethesda told the House Judiciary Committee at a hearing last week.

Last fall, a Washington Post poll found that about half of Maryland residents
considered illegal immigration a problem and that Marylanders were more apt than
Virginians to call it a "very serious" problem. Eighty-five percent of those
surveyed said they wanted state and local government to take an active role in
dealing with the issue.

The clamor is causing alarm among the thousands of day laborers, dishwashers and
babysitters who live and work without legal papers in Maryland and who are
beginning to see refugees from Virginia in the busy Latino enclaves along the
bus routes of Montgomery and Prince George's counties.

"Everywhere you go now, the first thing they ask you for is papers," Juan Perez,
28, a Central American construction worker, said outside a gas station in
Langley Park one recent morning. "We do the work faster and cheaper, but no one
wants us now. I haven't sent any money home to my family since December, and I
can barely pay to sleep in my friend's apartment."

Just across University Boulevard, a battered sedan with Virginia tags pulled up
in front of a convenience store. The driver, a carpenter from Guatemala named
Raul Romano, 40, said he and his family had recently fled Prince William County,
their home for eight years, after it enacted a law allowing police to question
immigrants about their legal status.

"Now I am too scared to go back and return my license plates," said Romano, who
has lived illegally in the United States for 18 years. "I left my job, my
apartment, my daughters left their school. Now, here we are in Maryland,
starting over again. We don't know anyone, but it's safer for the moment.
Tomorrow, it might be a different story."

The 20 bills introduced in Annapolis -- a sharp increase from three last year --
include proposals that would require driver's license applicants to prove they
are lawfully in the country, voters to confirm their legal status at the polls
and local governments to enforce federal immigration laws.

Legislators said most have no chance of passage in the Democratic-controlled
General Assembly. Some have been killed in committee, and most others are
expected to languish until the legislature adjourns next month.

"The voices are louder, but I doubt a single piece of legislation will get
through," said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Mont). She said opponents of illegal
immigration are "better organized now, but they are not convincing the hearts
and minds of the people. Maryland is still an immigrant-friendly environment."

Activists against illegal immigration said the legislature is out of touch with
public frustration and concern. During hearings in the past two weeks, residents
have testified that illegal immigrants are inundating schools, hospitals and
suburban neighborhoods and warned that they might bring disease and terrorism.

Opponents also appear to have stalled legislation to give in-state college
tuition rates to the children of illegal immigrants. The measure won approval in
both chambers in 2003 before being vetoed by then-Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.
(R). Last year, the House again passed it, but it stalled in the Senate. This
year, it is not expected to emerge from a House committee.

"We have more people than we ever expected getting involved. They are mad, but
until now, they didn't know what to do about it," said Brad Botwin, a Rockville
resident who chairs the activist group Help Save Maryland. "For the first time,
the delegates and senators are hearing the majority view on the impact of
illegal immigrants on our state."

The atmosphere in some hearings has been tense and heated. In the House
Judiciary Committee, chaired by Del. Joseph F. Vallario Jr. (D-Prince George's),
one activist distributed fake "wanted" posters of Vallario wearing a sombrero.

A construction worker who attended another hearing was arrested afterward for
allegedly threatening by e-mail to strangle Gov. Martin O'Malley (D). The man's
wife said he was upset after losing work to illegal immigrants.

Susan Payne, an activist from Montgomery County, warned lawmakers that
terrorists could threaten the state if obtaining a driver's license is not made
more difficult. She also lashed out at CASA of Maryland, a nonprofit group that
advocates immigrant rights, calling its staff "paid lobbyists" for a "special
interest group."

Kim Propeack, a CASA lobbyist who helped bring dozens of Latinos to the
Annapolis hearings, said her organization was trying to counter the "ugliness"
of a small activist group by presenting real immigrants and their problems.

Among the scores of illegal laborers who congregate in parking lots and at CASA
job centers in Wheaton and Langley Park each morning, the fact that no laws are
likely to be passed against them soon does little to ease the growing
frustration and fear.

County police officers cruise the parking lots frequently and often give the
laborers warnings for loitering. They do not ask for proof of legal residency,
and police officials said their policy is to check legal status only if someone
has been arrested and charged with breaking another law. But the men know that
this has begun happening in Prince William, and they worry it could start
affecting them, too.

They are also concerned about the small but growing exodus of illegal immigrants
from Virginia. Some are showing up at the same day-laborer sites, adding to the
competition. In Langley Park Plaza one recent mid-morning, two dozen idle men
said they had been waiting for work since 6:30. Several said they had considered
returning to their homelands but were embarrassed to face their families.

"I walked for 40 days across the desert; I was hungry and thirsty; my feet were
swollen. I miss my children, but how can I go back with nothing?" said Angel
Cervantes, 33, a Mexican father of three. "I know I am here illegally, but I
believe in following the law. I never drink or even get a parking ticket," he
said. "If the day comes when they deport me, I want to go home with honor."

Nearby, a white unmarked van circled the parking lot, cruising for a quick
household moving job. The driver, a Mexican without legal papers who gave his
name as Gerardo, said he had just gotten a police ticket for parking illegally
and was relieved that the officer had not asked him for proof of legal
residence.

"Look around at this plaza. See how much life we Latinos have created here,"
Gerardo said. "There's my bank. There's my insurance agent. That's where I buy
my groceries. I used to have a good moving business with my truck, but every day
it is harder to find workers. They are all scared of being arrested now. I am
illegal, too, but I don't hurt anyone. I am helping this community grow. We all
are. Just look around!"

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 15, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Board Chairman Stewart to Seek Lt. Governor Post

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 438 words


Prince William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart, the
politically ambitious architect of the county's illegal immigration crackdown,
said he plans to run for lieutenant governor next year.

It is well known that Stewart, a conservative Republican, is eyeing higher
office. He frequently has been mentioned as a potential successor to U.S. Rep.
Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.). And now that Davis has decided not to seek
reelection, Stewart has declared himself the "preeminent Republican in Northern
Virginia."

Stewart said he spent the past month weighing his options while watching the
General Assembly reach a virtual stalemate on several bills opposing illegal
immigration. He also watched lawmakers advance a measure that would scrap the
state's 30-year-old system in which local governments negotiate contributions
for such things as roads, libraries and schools from builders.

"They have stymied all attempts to crack down on illegal immigration," Stewart
said of the state Senate, where Democrats hold a narrow majority. "They are
cutting off support for schools, roads and local governments while they expand
Governor [Timothy M.] Kaine's pre-K program," Stewart said, referring to the
Democratic chief executive.

"They need someone down there who is going to beat up on them," he said. "They
need me down there to break the bottleneck."

The lieutenant governor presides over the Senate.

Lt. Gov. Bill Bolling (R) is expected to run for governor in 2009, giving
Stewart a shot at an open seat. He is the first Republican to announce his
intention to run, a decision first reported in yesterday's Washington Times.

While the rest of Northern Virginia continued a Democratic trend in November,
Prince William County solidified its conservative tilt. Stewart takes credit for
that by championing such issues as slow growth and the fight against illegal
immigration.

"Republicans got creamed in Northern Virginia in 2007, and I held Prince William
together and kept it Republican," Stewart said. "The party needs a shot in the
arm. It's gone stale. It needs vigorous leadership."

Stewart's first foray into politics was in 2003, when he was elected to
represent the Occoquan District on the Board of County Supervisors. He moved up
to the chairmanship after he won a 2006 special election to replace Republican
Sean T. Connaughton. Stewart, 39, was reelected to a four-year term in November.

Stewart said he does not intend to step down from the chairmanship while he runs
for statewide office. "I need to fulfill my promise to voters and see to it that
the illegal immigration resolution is fully implemented," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

McCain's Rise May Upset Democrats' Western Strategy

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1164 words


For Democrats, 2008 was supposed to be the year of the Mountain West, when three
years of relentless Republican attacks on undocumented immigrants would fuel a
backlash among Hispanics that would change the playing field in Arizona,
Colorado, Nevada and New Mexico, and perhaps alter the landscape of presidential
politics for a generation.

But the emergence of Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) as the likely standard-bearer for
the GOP may have scrambled the equation, cooling a potential political revolt
among Hispanics and sending Democrats in search of a new playbook.

"It completely screws it up," said Charles Black, a senior McCain adviser. "We
nominated the one person who will not suffer that backlash."

Rep. Raul M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), whose Tucson district is heavily Hispanic, said
Democrats should change their tack toward Latinos and emphasize the economy,
education and health care before even raising the immigration issue. Perhaps
Democrats seeking the Latino vote would be best served challenging McCain on the
Iraq war, suggested Guillermo Nicacio, Arizona state coordinator for Mi Familia
Vota, an effort to encourage Latinos to apply for citizenship, register and
vote.

Even as McCain moves to heal intraparty wounds on the immigration issue,
Democratic community organizers in the West say his past battles with other
Republicans over a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants left an imprint
on the Latino community that will not quickly fade.

"The issue of immigration is a litmus test in the Latino community," said Grace
Lopez Ramirez, director of the Mi Familia Vota campaign in Colorado. "They will
at least be more interested in listening to him."

In consecutive presidential elections, the Democrats have fallen just short of
the electoral college votes needed to take the White House. Ohio or Florida
could have put them over the top, but this year, Democrats are looking west for
those gains. The Democratic National Committee chose Denver as the site of its
August nominating convention, and the party moved the Nevada caucuses to the
front of the election calendar.

The Hispanic electorate has nearly doubled since President Bush's first
election, from 7.5 million in 2000 to an estimated 14 million this year,
according to NDN, formerly known as the New Democrat Network, a liberal think
tank focused on Latino voters. Hispanics make up 31 percent of the electorate in
New Mexico, 13 percent in Nevada, 12 percent in Arizona and 8 percent in
Colorado.

Between 1996 and 2004, Republicans were able to cut into that Hispanic vote,
moving from a 21 percent share to a 40 percent share. But in 2005, the
GOP-controlled House approved legislation tightening border controls and
cracking down on illegal immigrants, declaring them felons. The GOP's share of
the Hispanic vote slipped from 40 percent in 2004 to 30 percent in 2006.

In primary voting so far this year, the trend has continued, according to an NDN
analysis released last week. Latino turnout has surged to nearly 2 million, and
25 percent of the Latino vote has gone to Republicans; 75 percent has gone to
Democrats.

Given the makeup of the Latino population, the response now seems inevitable.
Waves of immigration in recent years have enlarged the Hispanic population to
44.3 million, 15 percent of the country. Two-thirds of the population is of
Mexican descent, with the second largest segment, Puerto Rican, far behind at 9
percent.

Of the 29 million Latino adults, about 13 million are registered to vote, and
close to half of those are foreign-born U.S. citizens.

That "is a dramatic and scary development for the Republicans," NDN President
Simon Rosenberg said.

"Ya es Hora, Ve y Vota!," a national campaign sponsored by labor unions, Latino
groups and Spanish-language media outlets, is helping tens of thousands of
Latinos to apply for citizenship and register to vote.

The group's organizers cannot advocate a particular candidate, but their
expectations are clear: "The issue of immigration has put the West in play,"
said Ben Monterroso, a Service Employees International Union (SEIU) organizer
responsible for Arizona, Colorado and Nevada. "A lot of people are waiting to
vote for someone who will not play politics with this issue but will offer real
solutions."

McCain, whose name sits beside that of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy's on comprehensive
immigration reform legislation, has consistently won a majority of Latinos in
his home state. And he countered the more heated rhetoric of his competitors for
the GOP nomination with a declaration that illegal immigrants are all "children
of God."

"They'd better look past the mountains and to the Pacific," chuckled Rep. Tom
Cole (Okla.), chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. "I
think John McCain is the Democrats' worst nightmare come true."

"He's definitely showed us that he's persistent," Lopez Ramirez acknowledged.
"This is dear to his heart, and he believes in it. Why else would he be taking
so many hits from his own party?"

Many Democrats are not so sure. Last year, when McCain was taking a pounding
from his party's right wing on immigration, he virtually disappeared as Senate
Democrats and Republicans tried to hash out a compromise immigration bill, said
Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), citing a Spanish saying, "Between that which you
say and that which you do, there is a big gulf."

What McCain is saying has changed. Whereas once he firmly said that no
immigration legislation could work unless it twinned tougher border enforcement
with a guest-worker program and a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants,
he now maintains that sealing the border must come first.

In a closed-door meeting with House Republicans last week, he again assured
conservatives that he had gotten the message. He had been beaten up badly on the
immigration issue, participants said he told them, and understands that the
nation's borders must be sealed and independently certified as under control
before the next president even considers any further steps.

Some Latino Democrats said that is almost worse than the virulent anti-immigrant
rhetoric coming from the Republican Party.

"When they went to him and said he had to back a [no same-sex] marriage
amendment, he said no. When they said campaign finance reform, he said no. When
they said torture, he said no," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who worked
with McCain on immigration legislation. "On this one, he didn't wait. He said
yes. Everybody gets this."

Regardless of McCain's rhetoric, the actions of Republicans down the ticket
could still mobilize Latinos. "The Republicans have done a hell of a job
organizing Latinos away from the Republican Party," said Eliseo Medina, an SEIU
organizer in Texas. "There's a Spanish saying, 'Tell me who you're with, and
I'll tell you who you are.' McCain is hanging out with these guys."

"We're running against the Republican Party," Grijalva said, "and, like it or
not, the good senator will be the titular head of that ticket."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Hispanics rallied
last spring for immigration reform. The GOP share of the Hispanic vote has been
dropping, and it remains to be seen how John McCain's candidacy will affect that
trend.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 21, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Sex Criminals Being Deported

BYLINE: Jerry Markon; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 669 words


More than 170 immigrants convicted of sex crimes are being deported after
authorities found their names on Virginia's sex offender registry, state and
federal officials announced yesterday.

Some of those being deported are undocumented immigrants, and others were in the
United States legally, but all were convicted of sex crimes once they entered
the country. All immigrants are subject to removal under federal law if they
commit crimes of "moral turpitude."

The majority of those arrested in the past year, 36, were lawful permanent
residents who had lived in Northern Virginia, officials said. One hundred and
thirty-five offenders had been incarcerated for such crimes as sexually abusing
a 4-year-old and using a "date-rape drug" to rape a woman. All will be deported.

The announcement marks another step in Virginia's escalating crackdown on
undocumented immigrants, part of the broader debate over immigration that has
roiled the nation and the presidential campaign. The Virginia campaign began
when Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell (R) asked state police to check the
birthplace of everyone on the sex offender registry. State officials then gave
federal agents a list of 527 sex offenders who were born overseas, and the
agents compared it to law enforcement databases.

"I trust all Virginians agree that there is no place in Virginia for criminal
alien sex offenders," McDonnell said. "We must take every possible step to
remove these dangerous criminals from our commonwealth and nation."

Federal agents arrested 13 of the immigrants in the past week and 23 over the
past year. Most had served their sentences and were living in Northern Virginia
communities such as Alexandria and Woodbridge.

Officials said 84 sex offenders whose names turned up had left the country on
their own or been deported. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents are
checking the remainder of the 527 names they received from Virginia.

Immigration experts and federal officials said they do not know of other states
targeting immigrant sex offenders, but McDonnell said he plans to urge his
colleagues across the nation to follow Virginia's lead. "I think Virginia is out
in front of this, maybe not the absolute first, but definitely on the front
end," said Bill Reed, special agent in charge of the Washington office of
investigation for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Groups on both sides of the immigration debate applauded the concept yesterday
but expressed concerns over how Virginia is carrying out the crackdown.

"Certainly we want our immigration enforcers to focus on community safety and to
prioritize serious crime," said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, which pushes for fair immigration
policies.

She added, however, that all immigrant sex offenders should not be deported
automatically. "It depends on the seriousness of the crime, did it occur decades
ago and have they since led an exemplary life," Butterfield said.

Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
seeks to crack down on illegal immigration, said: "The concern is that when you
have open borders, many of these people are fleeing justice."

Dane added, however: "Checking a list for places of birth to identify a
particular crime seems a little discriminatory or intrusive."

McDonnell said he decided to examine the registry, which lists names, addresses
and other information about convicted sex offenders, after the General Assembly
improved it in 2006. Asked why the registry had not been checked before, he
said: "Clearly, perhaps in the past, things were not done as well as they should
have been."

The sex offenders committed their crimes mostly in the past decade; the earliest
was in 1996. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials could not specify how
many were undocumented immigrants or where they lived.

Many police agencies and prison officials in Virginia do not check the
immigration status of people who are arrested, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Skewed Priorities

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 186 words


The Feb. 17 Metro article "Montgomery Program for Uninsured in Uphill Battle"
omitted important facts about the Montgomery Cares clinic program. The article
didn't mention that many of the facilities are in elementary schools in
predominantly Hispanic neighborhoods. These schools need renovation to provide a
better educational environment, not health clinics for a growing illegal
immigrant population. Instead, the Montgomery County Council put precious tax
dollars into these unnecessary facilities.

While the reporter correctly noted that illegal immigrants and their families
would use already financially stressed hospital emergency rooms if these clinics
were not available, this misses a key point. Federal law requires only
"emergency medical care" for illegal immigrants, not full-service clinics with
dental and mental health care.

There is a better solution. Demand IDs and proof of citizenship of all those who
request services. Use the savings in lower clinic usage to upgrade our schools.

-- Brad Botwin

Rockville

The writer is director of Help Save Maryland, a citizens group opposed to
illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Anti-Immigrant Effort Takes Hold in Md.;
Grass-Roots Movement Expands Beyond Montgomery in Targeting the Undocumented

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1469 words


Of all the communities in Prince George's County, tiny Mount Rainier seemed a
fitting place to pass a broad sanctuary law for illegal immigrants. After all,
the ethically diverse city of 9,000 already prohibits its police force from
enforcing federal immigration laws and inquiring about a person's citizenship
status.

But when the five-member City Council sat down to consider sanctuary status,
dozens of angry speakers from Mount Rainier and beyond crowded into public
hearings to oppose the measure. The debate not only split neighbors but drew
activists from across the state who are concerned about illegal immigration.

This week, the council tabled the resolution, citing the divisiveness. "I think
it's pretty much dead," said council member Jimmy Tarlau, who lobbied for the
proposal.

Maryland's nascent movement against illegal immigration, which began with
protests over a day-laborer center in Gaithersburg, is moving beyond Montgomery
County as advocates reach out more broadly, to African Americans and other
groups and to rural counties.

"I have nothing against anyone who wants to come to America, but don't expect us
to open our arms if you are not willing to do what it takes to become a
citizen," said Natalie McKinney, a newly minted activist who hands out leaflets
at her gym in Waldorf, at crowded bus stops and at a farmer's market in La
Plata.

McKinney's message is new not only to Charles County, where she heads a
fledgling chapter of Help Save Maryland, a group that opposes illegal
immigration. It is also new to Maryland's African American community, which
until now had been largely silent on the issue or had found common cause with
the struggle of Latino immigrants.

In contrast with Virginia, where a fast-growing movement against illegal
immigrants has prompted several counties in the past year to call for
restricting services, Maryland has appeared more welcoming toward its Latino
populace, now estimated at more than 500,000, including tens of thousands of
illegal immigrants.

The core of Maryland's small movement against illegal immigration has been in
suburban Montgomery, where members began organizing last year to oppose a
day-laborer center in Gaithersburg that helps Latino immigrants find jobs
regardless of their legal status.

Until recently, the groups were considered a fringe minority in a state with a
tradition of liberal politics. Civil rights groups, labor unions and black
church leaders across Maryland have embraced the immigrant cause as an echo of
their own struggles.

"There are some who want to create a schism between African Americans and
Latinos, but we need more black-brown coalitions. In one way or another, we are
all immigrants," said the Rev. Jamila Wood Jones, an African Methodist Episcopal
pastor in La Plata. "This is a land of opportunity, not a place where we want to
make criminals out of people who come to make a better life for their families."

Recently, a group of Maryland lawmakers with family ties to a dozen countries
launched a pro-immigrant committee called the New Americans Caucus, which they
said was aimed at keeping national anti-immigrant sentiment out of Maryland
politics and at fighting legislative proposals that target illegal immigrants.

In recent months, however, the movement against illegal immigration has gained
altitude across the state, with groups such as Help Save Maryland recruiting
members and forming chapters.

The surge has been driven in part by fears of immigrant flight from Virginia and
in part by several controversial issues, such as a state proposal that would
have allowed illegal immigrants to obtain special driver's licenses. That plan
was ultimately rejected by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D).

"The epicenter is still Montgomery, but we are getting members in many other
counties now," said Brad Botwin, a Rockville resident who heads Help Save
Maryland and speaks at meetings across the state. "This is not like the Ellis
Island time, when my grandparents came. We cannot afford to build schools and
clinics and job centers for people who came here illegally."

This message has begun to resonate in unexpected corners of the state. In
Carroll County, the largely white farming community of Taneytown recently
debated, then rejected, a resolution to keep out illegal immigrants. In Charles
County, African American activists such as McKinney are beginning to solicit
support from their neighbors.

In Prince George's County, a racially and economically diverse jurisdiction
whose Latino population has grown rapidly in some neighborhoods, the issue of
job competition from poorly paid illegal immigrants has aroused concern among
some African Americans. Until recently, though, there were virtually no
organized groups raising the issue.

When Mount Rainier proposed becoming a "sanctuary city," like Takoma Park in
Montgomery County, Help Save Maryland joined some residents in lobbying against
it.

Such a regulation, Botwin said, does not stop federal authorities from enforcing
immigration laws. "It's irresponsible for our elected officials to put in
policies like this," he said. "It's unnecessary."

Joe Robbins, a Mount Rainier resident who testified in favor of the law, saw the
immigration issue differently. "Isn't it similar to the one that this country
was founded on, that of 'Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses
yearning to breathe free'?"

Elsewhere, Green Line riders are likely to encounter Pree Glenn-Grayves, a legal
secretary, handing out leaflets at every stop on her commute home from the
District. For Glenn-Grayves, the issue hit home the day her husband discovered
that many customers of his home remodeling business had switched to firms that
hired Latino workers, paid lower wages and were able to make lower bids on
renovation jobs.

Angry and frustrated, Glenn-Grayves said she turned to the Internet and
discovered the Web site of Help Save Manassas, which led her to Help Save
Maryland. Nine months after signing on as a volunteer, she has become its county
coordinator.

"You'd be amazed how many African Americans are incensed about this. A lot of
them are still in the closet, but I am being flooded with e-mails," she said.
"The black and Latino movements have nothing to do with each other. We want to
help the civil rights of our citizens, not of the people who invade our country,
take our jobs and drag themselves across the border so they can have U.S.
citizen babies."

Pro-immigrant groups say the clout of Help Save Maryland and its allies is still
minimal. They assert that the great majority of state residents, even if unhappy
about problems associated with illegal immigration, are opposed to harsh
measures against immigrants. Taneytown's City Council eventually rejected a
proposal to make the community a "sanctuary" from illegal immigrants, and the
General Assembly has routinely killed proposals to deny services or legal rights
to illegal immigrants.

"If groups like Help Save Maryland exist now, we consider that a price of our
success in retaining Maryland as a positive place for immigrants," said Kim
Propeack, an activist with Casa de Maryland, a state-funded group that runs five
day-laborer centers. "Most Marylanders are not comfortable with undocumented
immigrants, and they believe we have a broken system. But they want constructive
dialogue and solutions."

In trying to enlist public support, new activists such as McKinney and
Glenn-Grayves seem to face an uphill battle. Most people accept their leaflets
politely, and some express concern. But few seem eager to get involved. Last
week, at the farmers market in La Plata, a woman selling vegetables told
McKinney that she had mixed feelings.

"I don't want to see people be ostracized if they have been mistreated in their
home countries," said Joan Bowling, who has lived in Charles County for 30
years. McKinney pointed out that many immigrants enter the country illegally,
some commit crimes and many do not learn English.

"I see what you mean," Bowling said, tucking away the leaflet. "I'm with you on
that. They should do it legally."

At the Branch Avenue Metro stop, where Glenn-Grayves often tries to start
conversations, an assortment of commuters expressed concern about such issues as
job competition from Latino workers and overcrowded rental housing. But they
also expressed sympathy for hardworking immigrants trying to survive.

"I disapprove of people living 20 to a house, using public services and not
paying taxes. There should be stronger laws," said Norman Brown, 57, who works
for a firm that organizes trade shows. "But these immigrants do the jobs a lot
of our younger people won't do, and once they settle down with families, it may
be too late to send them back. I have strong feelings, but this is not an easy
issue."

Staff writer Jackie Spinner contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· A Feb. 23 Metro article on anti-immigration sentiment in Maryland
incorrectly said that dozens of people spoke out against expanding Mount
Rainier's sanctuary law at a Feb. 19 meeting. There were fewer speakers than the
word "dozens" would imply, and the majority spoke in favor of the proposed
expansion.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By James A. Parcell For The Washington Post; Natalie McKinney,
who heads Charles County's fledgling chapter of Help Save Maryland, a group that
opposes illegal immigration, gives a flier to Joan Bowling at a farmers market.
IMAGE; Photos By James A. Parcell For The Washington Post; "Don't expect us to
open our arms if you are not willing to do what it takes to become a citizen,"
says activist Natalie McKinney.
IMAGE; Joan Bowling doesn't want immigrants to be "ostracized if they have been
mistreated" but says they should arrive here legally.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

IN BRIEF

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ04

LENGTH: 1107 words

Leesburg Police Arrest Two Gang Suspects

Two illegal immigrants from El Salvador suspected of being gang members were
arrested this month in Leesburg and investigators are searching for a third
suspect, the Leesburg Police Department said Monday.

Wilbur Ernesto Aleman-Orellana, 18, and Oscar Edgardo Moz-Herrera, 23, both of
Leesburg, have served time in an El Salvador prison on multiple homicide
charges, investigators said. A warrant has been issued for the arrest of the
third suspect, Rosie Orellana-Serrano, 29, of Leesburg.

Police said the three are suspected of being members of the 18th Street Gang.

Leesburg police, working with Immigration and Customs Enforcement detectives,
stopped the three in the area of Forbes Court and Heritage Way about 9:20 p.m.
Feb. 14. All three provided authorities with false information about their
identities, police said.

Investigators said they later learned that the three possessed several
fictitious identification documents as well as items that indicated they might
be affiliated with the gang. By the time authorities discovered the false
documents and decided to proceed with charges, Orellana-Serrano had been
released, police said. Investigators said deportation proceedings were initiated
against her in 2005 for illegally entering the United States.

Aleman-Orellana and Moz-Herrera were charged with possession of false
identification, forgery and unlawful name change. They are being held without
bond at the Loudoun County jail on ICE detainers.

Anyone with information about the case is asked to call investigators at
703-771-4500 or, to remain anonymous, 703-443-TIPS.

Suspect Sketch Released In Touching Incident

The Loudoun County Sheriff's Office released a composite sketch of a man
suspected of touching a 14-year-old Sterling girl inappropriately on the
Washington and Old Dominion Trail.

The victim told authorities that she was walking on the trail near Sully Road in
Sterling about 1:50 p.m. Feb. 18 when she was approached by an unknown male on a
bicycle. She said he asked her several questions before she walked away, then
grabbed her and asked her a few more questions before he rode away.

The suspect is described as a Hispanic male in his late teens, about 5-foot-6,
with a heavy build, a short haircut, brown eyes and a diamond stud in the right
ear. He was wearing a black zip-up sweatshirt with red lettering and blue jeans,
authorities said.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact investigator B.
Ochsman at 703-777-0475 or, to remain anonymous, 703-443-TIPS.

Team-Building Program For Loudoun Girls

The Loudoun Youth Initiative is sponsoring "Girls Take Charge," a free day-long
leadership workshop for middle and high school girls, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
March 8 at Dominion High School.

Throughout the day, girls will participate in a series of team-building
exercises. Women from various fields, including science, education and law, will
share their career experiences with the girls. There will also be a series of
presentations on risk-taking. Lunch and snacks will be provided.

To register and get more information, visit http://www.loudounteens.org.

Purcellville Approves One-Bin Recycling

The Town of Purcellville adopted a plan allowing residents to put all recyclable
materials in the same recycling bin.

Materials accepted under the single-stream recycling system include glass
bottles and jars, aluminum and steel cans, food and beverage containers, plastic
bottles and jugs, newspapers and magazines, phone books and junk mail, cracker
and cereal boxes, and corrugated boxes. Other items should be disposed of as
trash.

All containers to be recycled should be rinsed and drained and all corrugated
boxes flattened before they are placed for pickup.

County Fair for Summer, After-School Employment

 The Loudoun County Department of Parks, Recreation and Community Services is
holding a job fair March 13 for those seeking summer jobs or employment in the
department's after-school programs. The fair is from 4 to 7 p.m. on the first
floor of the agency's office at 215 Depot Ct. SE in Leesburg.

For specific job requirements and to apply online, visit http://www.loudoun.gov
and click on the "jobs" link. Applicants should bring a copy of their completed
application to the fair. Interviews will be conducted on-site. For information,
call 703-777-0473.

 Loudoun Interfaith Relief To Move to New Office

Loudoun Interfaith Relief will close its office on King Street on Monday and
reopen March 10 at a location near Leesburg Executive Airport.

The nonprofit group, which provides emergency assistance to the needy, is moving
to a larger facility at 750 Miller Dr., Executive Director Bonnie Inman said.

For information, visit http://www.interfaithrelief.org.

Participants Sought For Preparedness Drills

Loudoun Volunteer Services is seeking individuals to participate in an
emergency-preparedness exercise March 18 at J.L. Simpson Middle School in
Leesburg.

The exercise is from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. at 490 Evergreen Mill Rd. SE. Each
volunteer will be assigned a task.

For information or to register, call 703-737-8424 or e-mail
lisa.rose@loudoun.gov

 Nominations Deadline For Volunteer Awards

The nomination deadline for the 2008 Loudoun Volunteer Services awards is
Saturday.

Nomination forms are available in the group's office at the county government
center, 1 Harrison St. SE in Leesburg, and at http://www.loudoun.gov/volunteer.

For information, call 703-737-8424 or e-mail http://pivs@loudoun.gov.

Discussion Planned On U.S. Wildlife

The Loudoun County Extension Office will hold a meeting at 7 p.m. March 6 to
discuss wildlife in the United States.

The guest speaker will be Becky Shore, founder and director of Animal
Ambassadors, an environmental education program based in Paeonian Springs. Those
who attend the meeting are encouraged to donate old blankets, kennels, carriers
and bowls for animals in the program.

The meeting is at 30-B Catoctin Cir. SE, Leesburg. For information, call
703-777-0373.

 Art Entries Solicited For Bluemont Show, Sale

Art in the Foothills is seeking artists to participate in its juried art show
and sale May 9 through 11 in Bluemont.

Entry packets will be mailed to interested artists on Monday, and the deadline
to submit entries is April 7. To be included on the mailing list, call
540-554-8715 or 540-554-2809.

 Lucketts Fair Seeks Juried-Show Participants

The Lucketts Fair is seeking artisans and craftsmen to participate in its juried
show of handmade items Aug. 23-24.

Applications are available at http://www.luckettsfair.com or by calling
703-771-5281. The deadline is April 1.

-- Compiled by ARIANNE ARYANPUR

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Wilbur Ernesto Aleman-Orellana
IMAGE; Oscar Edgardo Moz-Herrera
IMAGE; Male sought in Feb. 18 incident.
IMAGE; Rosie Orellana-Serrano

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 2, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration Coverage in the Crossfire

BYLINE: Deborah Howell

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 922 words


Readers who oppose illegal immigration often complain that The Post has too much
sympathy for those living in the United States illegally and too little for
those who oppose such residents.

They prefer that The Post use the term "illegal alien" and are disturbed that
they sometimes are called "anti-immigrant" when they say they do not oppose
legal immigration. While the Post covers many immigrant groups, most of the
coverage of illegal immigration has involved Hispanics in the suburbs because
that's where the controversy is.

Leslie Wilder of Alexandria wrote last fall: "Am I the only one annoyed by The
Post's constant glorification of illegal immigrants? Hardly a week goes by
without either an uplifting or heart-rending article."

These readers also criticize The Post's editorial page, which has consistently
opposed local attempts to suppress services for immigrants, but editorials are
not in my purview and do not affect news coverage.

This issue has flared nationally and locally, especially in Herndon and in
Prince William County, in Virginia, and in Montgomery and Prince George's
counties, in Maryland. Several readers were upset about a Feb. 23 headline on
the Metro section front: "Anti-Immigrant Effort Takes Hold in Md." A secondary
headline  made it clearer: "Grass-Roots Movement Expands Beyond Montgomery in
Targeting the Undocumented."

John Mac Michael of Alexandria wrote: "Your recent article on growing opposition
to illegal aliens (immigrants?) in Maryland once again used the familiar ploy of
labeling those citizens who oppose illegal aliens as being 'anti-immigrant.'
This is baloney. There is a clear difference between the two classes, and I
certainly welcome those who are here legally."

The headline should have been more precise. The story also drew fire from
pro-immigration activists who said it didn't make clear that most people
appearing at a Mount Rainier City Council meeting favored  declaring the city a
"sanctuary" for illegal immigrants. A correction was published.

My review of immigration stories, mostly local, over the past year and several
months, showed that the coverage was mostly straightforward and informative.
Because it is a huge issue, reporters throughout the Metro staff cover
immigration, and three  do so full time. Ashley Halsey, associate Metro editor,
supervises the coverage.

A Jan. 10 story by staff writer N.C. Aizenman laid out particularly well how
differently illegal immigrants and their opponents view breaking the law. A
Washington Post-ABC News poll also gave national and local looks at what people
are thinking.

A few  "anti-immigrant" references have popped up in recent stories -- and
shouldn't have. The Post also went astray in a March 18, 2007, story about a
federal raid on a New England plant; the story reported on what happened to
illegal immigrants swept up in the raid but never quoted immigration officials.
I also worry that advocacy groups on both sides of the issue  are quoted
uncritically.

Readers are right that some journalists tend to write sympathetically about the
underdog. But you cannot ignore the human story. "It's impossible to cover this
issue without the challenges faced by people who are here illegally. We have
tried not to be repetitive in those stories," Halsey said.

Have the views of those against illegal immigrants been fully told? My review
included many stories quoting opponents -- as well as their march on the Mall
last spring. Some feel they've been portrayed as racist and xenophobic. While
some have been quoted expressing views that might be interpreted that way, most
have not. Halsey said it has been "very challenging to write effectively about
people opposed to illegal immigration, because they are very passionate and seem
suspicious of our motives and are less welcoming to our attention when we try to
talk to them about their motivations."

But there are stories that could be done that would give readers better context.
How many legal immigrants are admitted to the United States every year and from
what countries and in what categories? Do some racial or ethnic groups get more
visas than others -- or tend to overstay visas more? There haven't been big
immigration raids locally. Why? Do businesses that hire illegal immigrants think
they won't be caught doing so?

Is it possible to quantify how illegal immigrants affect public school
expenditures, crime and housing? Just how bad are the problems? Halsey said this
is a daunting job, because trustworthy figures are hard to come by.

On terminology, Chip Beck, a State Department officer and former U.S. consul,
believes it's important to use "illegal alien." Beck, who said he was not
speaking for the State Department, said, "Foreign nationals who come across the
border without papers or who overstay their visa are deemed 'illegal aliens.'
Those are the legally correct terms. . . . The correct terminology is not
derogatory but carries precise meanings under law." He sent a copy of the
federal law that says: "The term 'alien' means any person not a citizen or
national of the United States."

The Post does not use "alien" in news stories and prefers "illegal immigrant."
Even if "alien" is legal terminology, to me, it sounds like someone from outer
space. "Undocumented workers" is also discouraged. The Post stylebook says of
"undocumented": "When used to describe immigrants, this is a euphemism that
obscures an important fact -- that they are in this country illegally."

Deborah Howell can be reached at 202-334-7582 or at ombudsman@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Crackdown on Illegal Immigration Quiets Soccer Fields in Pr. William

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1176 words


When Northern Virginia's Latino soccer leagues kick off the 2008 season early
next month, fans of Honduras de Manassas will have to travel outside their base
in Prince William County to see their team score goals. So will supporters used
to watching Juventus SureÃ±o crush the competition in Woodbridge. Devotees of
longtime Manassas powerhouse Fiorentina will need to switch allegiance. Their
team is sitting out this season.

As Prince William proceeds with its crackdown on illegal immigrants, one result
is a shake-up and shrinking of the area's entrenched Hispanic soccer leagues.
The reason is simple, organizers say: Players and fans, among them many illegal
immigrants, are so worried about being detained by authorities en route to or at
games that they are avoiding local fields. Legal immigrants are also wary, for
themselves or their illegal relatives, organizers say.

"I have never felt as good as I felt in Manassas," said Hector Bardales, 26, a
Sterling mechanic who plays in four of the region's leagues but most loved the
crowds who cheered him on when he donned his Honduras de Manassas uniform. But
he is in the country illegally, so Manassas is now no man's land, he said. "I
would play in any county except Prince William."

Officials have said the policy is not meant to intimidate but to remove illegal
immigrants, particularly those who commit crimes. The imperiled leagues draw
little sympathy from backers of the county's enforcement program.

"I would hope that the soccer leagues didn't depend on illegal aliens to make
them viable," said Greg Letiecq, president of Help Save Manassas, an
anti-illegal-immigration group. "It just doesn't seem like a valid reason for
overturning the rule-of-law resolution: because without the illegal aliens, the
soccer clubs will all fall apart."

Some teams are moving to counties they perceive as safer ground, and several are
not playing. Owners of the four main Latino leagues that play in Prince William
started last season with 80 teams among them; three weeks before this year's
outset, fewer than 50 have signed up. The biggest and oldest league, the Liga de
Manassas, is skipping the season because its list of teams dropped by more than
half.

Organizers say the decline is a blow not just to soccer but also to Latino
immigrants' community life. The weekend games, played at rented county and
school fields from April to November, have evolved into events that attract
crowds who come to hear bands perform, munch steaming pupusas and let their
children play. Leagues hire security guards to curb rowdiness and crews to clean
fields postgame. Matches are broadcast on Spanish-language radio.

"Imagine you work all week, Monday to Friday. You need entertainment. Something
to distract your mind," drywaller and soccer enthusiast Francisco Carcamo, 31,
said on a recent blustery Sunday as he watched two teams scrimmage in
Woodbridge, where he lives. He pointed to a boy kicking a ball in the distance.
"Look. If the parents don't come, how will the children have fun?"

To try to allay fears, league owners have hosted team meetings at which police
have explained the county's policy, which took effect last week and requires
officers to check the immigration status of crime suspects who they think might
be in the country illegally. There are to be no immigration checkpoints, racial
profiling or sidelines raids, the teams were told. The meetings have had little
impact, league owners said.

The two hardest-hit leagues are in Manassas, a place organizers say Latino
immigrants fear most because it is surrounded by the county and is home to Help
Save Manassas.

Freddy Ventura, a businessman who founded the Liga de Manassas 18 years ago,
said signs of the soccer slump surfaced in the fall, after county officials
approved the crackdown. Crowds who came to matches at Stonewall Jackson High
School dwindled from 2,000 to 700, he said. By this time most years, Ventura
said, he would have a hefty team waiting list. Instead, only 12 teams committed,
down from 28 last year.

Like league owners regionwide, Ventura, whose club is both business and hobby,
has lost sponsors as the economy has weakened. He said that he would be willing
to lose money on the games but that the interest was just too low.

"I don't have the teams," he said. "This is what they have nicknamed this
county: the Devil's County. They call it Condado del Diablo."

Jose Platero said most players on his team, Fiorentina, told him they will no
longer go to Manassas because they have moved or fear their fan base has
vanished. Melvin Ortez, president of Honduras de Manassas, is switching his team
to a Fairfax league because half of his players are illegal immigrants.

Organizers also cite fear among legal immigrants. The main concern, they say, is
whether illegal immigrants who are driven to matches by legal immigrants will be
asked for immigration papers if the driver is stopped. Legal fans and players
also fear their illegal relatives could be detained on the sidelines.

First Sgt. Kim Chinn, a Prince William police spokeswoman, said passengers would
be asked for legal documents only if the officer also suspected them of crimes
and of being in the country illegally.

Walter Pereira, 30, a construction worker from Honduras in the United States
legally, plays for Juventus SureÃ±o, which competes in a Fairfax league and,
last year, in the Liga de Woodbridge. His brother Hernan Pereira, 27, also plays
but has no legal papers. Neither does brother Felipe Pereira, 25, one of the
team's biggest fans. Hernan and Felipe refuse to set foot in Prince William now.
So Walter voted with his teammates to drop out of the Woodbridge league.

"I don't want anything to happen to them," said Walter Pereira, who lives in
Alexandria. "I have to support them. I am Latino, too."

Leagues in other jurisdictions reported no similar declines, with one exception:
A handful of the 14 teams that played in the Springfield Soccer League last year
are moving to the District or Maryland, league owner Jose Bonilla said.

"They are afraid of being near" Prince William, said Saul Cardenas, who is
moving his team, Atletico SureÃ±o, to a District league after playing in
Springfield for five years.

Leaders of teams staying in Prince William said they have mostly legal players
or are recruiting younger Latinos who are U.S. citizens, a move they said would
probably weaken their teams. Others hold out hope that rosters will grow if
immigrants see that police are not making mass arrests.

Last weekend in a sunny Manassas cafe, Victor Rivera, owner of Liga Universal de
Manassas, held a sparsely attended meeting. Rivera has about 10 teams on board,
down from 24 last year.

Chatting turned to questions: Should people carry passports? Would immigration
agents raid the soccer fields? They joked about placing newspaper ads: "Players
wanted. Unpaid. With papers."

Rivera vowed to keep the league going, even with 10 teams, to "reactivate the
people."

"It's like a tornado hit here, and there is dirt everywhere," Rivera said.
"We're trying to rebuild."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; Manassas United
player Arnoldo Guerrero, left, and Pillar player Jose Vigil battle for control
of the ball. Some Prince William area teams in the Latino leagues are playing
elsewhere or have disbanded this year.
IMAGE; Photos By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; The number of teams
in Prince William's four main Latino leagues has dropped sharply. "I would play
in any county except Prince William," says one player, an illegal immigrant.
IMAGE; Team President Melvin Ortez is switching Honduras de Manassas to a
Fairfax league.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 15, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Illegal Immigration Issues Attract Little Interest Outside N.Va.

BYLINE: Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1123 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, March 14


A divided Virginia General Assembly killed most proposals to crack down on
illegal immigration during its annual session, despite legislators' repeated
pledges to address the growing population in last fall's campaign.

Of the 130 immigration bills introduced, only a handful passed before the
legislature finished Thursday. The bills that would have penalized illegal
immigrants died during the session, a sign that the issue lacks a sense of
urgency statewide.

"I think the problem here is that there are not enough localities that are
feeling the same pain as exploding localities like Prince William," said Del.
Paul F. Nichols (D-Prince William). "It's frustrating."

Bills that passed will deny bail to illegal immigrants charged with a crime,
require jails to check the legal status of those taken into custody and prohibit
government contractors from hiring illegal immigrants.

Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), who has often said that immigration policy generally
should be left up to the federal government, has signed all three bills.

"Bills dealing with behaviors that threaten public safety ought to be taken very
seriously," Kaine said. "Beyond that, you've got to be very careful."

The number of immigration bills introduced in the two-month legislative session
was the highest in recent years. More than 100 originated from the
Republican-controlled House, where many were approved before the
Democrat-controlled Senate killed them.

"The Democratic majority in the Senate "recognized that there was some demand
and something had to be done. What came out was just above window dressing,"
said Sen. Ken Cuccinelli II (R-Fairfax), who introduced several immigration
measures. "They wanted to pass just enough to try to release a good portion of
the political pressure. Their goal was not to accomplish anything."

Senate Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) accused House members of
trying to use the immigration issue to solicit votes in next year's legislative
election.

"I'm not into building guys' campaign brochures, and neither was anybody else,"
Saslaw said.

Bills that failed would have allowed employers to fire workers for misconduct if
they speak a language other than English, banned illegal immigrants from public
colleges and universities, required that driver's license exams be conducted in
English and required that home buyers prove they are in the country legally to
qualify for a mortgage.

Del. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas) introduced proposals that would have
required defendants to pay for language interpreters in court if convicted and
would have forbid taxpayer money from being given to charities that provide
services to illegal immigrants.

"There is a different philosophy in the Senate than the House," Miller said.
"Most senators said they wanted to get tough on immigration, but then they
didn't."

But Nichols said his seven immigration proposals did not make it out of the
House. Six of them were never even brought up in a committee, including one that
would have required contractors to use an electronic verification system to
check workers' legal status.

"The problem apparently hasn't gotten big enough," Nichols said. "We'll stay at
it. We're not going to give up."

A Washington Post poll taken a month before the Nov. 6 election showed 75
percent of likely voters in Virginia said immigration was important to their
votes in the election for state and local offices.

Republicans across the state, and some Democrats in conservative districts,
seized on immigration as a campaign issue, saying they would introduce proposals
to reduce the number of illegal immigrants. Much of the debate was in Northern
Virginia, including Prince William County, where officials are curtailing some
government services to illegal immigrants and increasing enforcement.

"I'm disappointed in the progress [in the legislature] or lack there of," said
Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors and
a candidate for lieutenant governor next year.

Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell (R) said he was pleased with the enactment
of two bills recommended by the Virginia Crime Commission -- to deny bail to
illegal immigrants and require jails to check legal status.

Sen. George L. Barker (D-Fairfax) said that some bills, including his, did not
target immigrants directly, but took aim at the problems that can stem from an
increasing immigrant population. The legislature passed, and the governor
signed, two of Barker's bills that will help localities such as Fairfax combat
single-family homes being used as boardinghouses.

"What I've seen on things like this is if legislators see [bills] as addressing
an issue and not singling out a class of people, they will support them," he
said.

Of the 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be in the United States,
250,000 to 300,000 live in Virginia, according to the Pew Hispanic Center in
Washington. An additional 440,000 people in Virginia are not U.S. citizens but
are in the state legally, the U.S. Census Bureau says.

At the start of the legislative session, House and Senate leaders outlined their
immigration priorities. Only a handful of proposals offered immigrants help,
including those that would have created an office of immigration assistance,
protected immigrant crime victims and increased the schools' funding formula
based on the immigrant population. All three failed.

Andres Tobar, president of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations, said
his group is "disappointed that the legislature failed to enact even one measure
with a positive impact on the immigrant community."

In the past three years, as Congress repeatedly failed to pass immigration
legislation, many states considered immigration bills that address employment,
identification, law enforcement and public benefits.

"We need Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform on the federal level
before Virginia hurts herself," said Tim Freilich, legal director of the Legal
Aid Justice Center's Immigrant Advocacy Program. "With more than 10 percent of
Virginians born outside of the United States, bills that hurt Virginia's
immigrants hurt Virginia."

Last year, more than 1,500 immigration bills were introduced in legislatures
across the country, about three times as many as in 2006, and 244 were enacted.

Ann Morse, program director for the Immigrant Policy Project at the National
Conference of State Legislatures in Washington, said state lawmakers have
introduced 600 bills this year but are limited in what they can do to curb
illegal immigration.

"It certainly is a testament to the difficulty of the issue," said House
Minority Leader Ward L. Armstrong (D-Henry). "States are limited and it
underscores the need for the federal government to act."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 15, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Legislative Scorecard

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 86 words


Here is the outcome of key immigration issues considered by the Virginia General
Assembly:

 Approved

Â· Deny bail to illegal immigrants charged with a crime.

Â· Require jails to check the legal status of those taken into custody.

Â· Prohibit government contractors from hiring illegal immigrants.

Rejected

Â· Allow employers to fire workers for speaking a language other than English on
the job.

Â· Bar illegal immigrants from attending public colleges and universities.

Â· Declare English as Virginia's official language.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Team Will Track Pr. William's Illegal Immigration Crackdown

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1118 words


With the nation watching, the impact of Prince William County's illegal
immigration crackdown will be measured not by the county board that pushed for
it, or the police officers who will enforce it, but by an independent team of
college professors and criminologists.

At the heart of their evaluation will be a question that has never been
explored: How does a community change when its police officers start checking
citizenship?

The team of sociologists and law enforcement experts from the University of
Virginia, James Madison University and the Police Executive Research Forum will
spend the next two years examining the consequences of the policy, which
requires officers to check the immigration status of crime suspects they think
are in the country illegally. The policy went into effect March 3.

"We're sort of going in with a blank sheet of paper with a bunch of variables
that we want to look at," said Chuck Wexler, executive director of PERF, a
Washington-based think tank. "But, quite frankly, this is uncharted territory.
And, as such, I think we have an obligation to tell it as we see it."

The team will analyze everything from police records to public sentiment. But
how do you measure such a policy's success? If large numbers of illegal
immigrants leave the county, were they driven out by police actions, out of fear
or because there are fewer jobs in a flagging economy? If reported crime goes
down, does it mean that fewer people are breaking the law or that more people
are afraid to call authorities?

"Our interviews so far already show that different people in the county are
expecting very different things from this policy," said Thomas M. Guterbock, a
sociology professor at the University of Virginia and principal investigator for
the research team. "We don't know what will happen, but we know that all of
these things can't happen."

Even before the county directed the police department to write its enforcement
plan last year, officials knew that measuring its impact would prove a slippery
undertaking, that critics on either side of the emotional issue would view
police as going too far or not far enough. Still, officials decided they must
try. The evaluation process was written in as the third phase of the policy,
following officer training and public education.

"The evaluation of any significant public policy change is important. Too often
we put things in place, we pass laws and don't look back, or don't have systems
in place to adjust and accomplish the goals that we set out," Police Chief
Charlie T. Deane said. "We need to know how this impacts our overall mission of
keeping the community safe."

County Supervisor Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles) said the goal of the evaluation is to
ensure the policy is "legal, just and reasonable" -- words that have been
uttered often in the months since the board gave its unanimous approval to the
crackdown. The police department has stressed that racial profiling is
prohibited and that the effort will focus on criminal suspects who are believed
to be in the country illegally. Still, lawsuits are expected.

"We had to not just avoid racial profiling," Nohe said. "With this new focus on
Prince William County, we had to also avoid the perception of racial profiling."

The research team will not only help the county ensure the policy is reasonable,
he added, it will help establish a "reasonable measurement" to gauge its
effectiveness. The team plans to look at how many people are reported to federal
immigration officials under the policy and how many of those cases federal
officials decide to pursue.

"If we come back in a year and determine not much has changed, or not much has
changed for the better," Nohe said, "then we obviously will want to go back and
revaluate the policy."

Without the evaluation, Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Board of County
Supervisors, said the county would have only anecdotal evidence to judge whether
the policy is achieving its purpose: encouraging illegal immigrants already in
the county to leave and discouraging others from coming.

"The message that we are sending about not tolerating illegal immigration,
especially illegal immigrants who commit crimes, I think already that message is
having an effect," Stewart (R-At Large) said. But "we will have a better
understanding after a year, certainly after two, that it's working."

Stewart added that, in addition to protecting the county against racial
profiling, he hopes the study will determine whether the policy is
"cost-effective."

The board learned recently that the cost of the crackdown will be $6.4 million
the first year, more than twice as much as estimated. The five-year cost is
expected to be about $26 million.

Thomas Pulaski, the police department's project leader in charge of coordinating
the effort with the research team, said the study is still in the design stages.
Researchers plan to analyze police data, shadow officers on the streets and
conduct interviews throughout the community. But what questions to ask and what
numbers to analyze remain to be decided, he said.

For example, the team will gauge victimization rates by adding questions to the
county's annual citizen satisfaction survey, but how best to word them? What is
the best way to gauge if domestic violence victims are more hesitant to call
police because they fear their illegal immigrant spouses will be deported?

"What are the intended and unintended impacts on the whole community?" Pulaski
said. "This hasn't really been explored. We don't know."

Guterbock, who has conducted the satisfaction surveys for the past 15 years,
wonders if the police department will maintain its historically high
satisfaction rating. From year to year, he said, there has been very little
difference between the perception of black, white and Hispanic residents, which
is unusual in large jurisdictions.

Tim Carter, a professor at James Madison University and the criminologist member
of the team, said his role will involve creating a 10-year base line of what
policing in the county looked like before the policy and how it changes. He
plans to do this by examining large sets of police data, such as calls for
service, incident reports and community complaints.

"I don't have any particular question in mind that I am going in to look for,"
Carter said. "It's more the questions that might arise out of this broad scope
of data. This policy is not strictly about policing, it's about a community.
It's going to be very interesting to see how this plays out."

Pulaski said the undertaking appears to be unprecedented.

"We're breaking new ground in the country," Pulaski said. "The bottom line, when
all is said and done, is this will be a blueprint for future research."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Supervisor Martin E. Nohe says Prince William must avoid even
the perception of racial profiling.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Consequences of a Witch Hunt

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 137 words


I am one of the 96.8 percent of Prince William County residents who see issues
other than illegal immigration as important ["Twisted Priorities," editorial,
March 12]. I am incensed that my taxes will go to support a witch hunt of
illegal immigrants,  rather than pay for roads and other needed county
initiatives.

Hardworking immigrants, both legal and illegal, built my house, help care for my
elderly father, clean my neighbors' houses and mow their lawns. Chasing such
immigrants from the county will have long-lasting economic consequences, already
seen in lowered home values and empty storefronts, and leave us all morally
compromised. How many of us honor immigrant family members and point with pride
to an America of opportunity and equality -- except, apparently, in Prince
William County?

NANCY JOHNSON

Gainesville

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

To Illegal Immigrants, Md. Feeling Less Friendly

BYLINE: Pamela Constable and Lisa Rein; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1263 words


Public anger against illegal immigrants, already entrenched in parts of Northern
Virginia, is seeping into Maryland. With legislators facing unprecedented
demands to take action, fears of a crackdown are spreading among illegal
immigrants in a state that has been more tolerant of them.

A record 20 bills targeting illegal immigrants have been introduced in the state
legislature this session. Although none of the bills is expected to survive,
their supporters are far more vocal and organized than in the past, and the
movement has gained recent support in Maryland communities that include Mount
Rainier, Gaithersburg and Taneytown.

"If there is any doubt that people like me truly represent the overwhelming
majority on this issue, show some courage and put it on a referendum," Margaret
Montuori of Bethesda told the House Judiciary Committee at a hearing last week.

Last fall, a Washington Post poll found that about half of Maryland residents
considered illegal immigration a problem and that Marylanders were more apt than
Virginians to call it a "very serious" problem. Eighty-five percent of those
surveyed said they wanted state and local government to take an active role in
dealing with the issue.

The clamor is causing alarm among the thousands of day laborers, dishwashers and
babysitters who live and work without legal papers in Maryland and who are
beginning to see refugees from Virginia in the busy Latino enclaves along the
bus routes of Montgomery and Prince George's counties.

"Everywhere you go now, the first thing they ask you for is papers," Juan Perez,
28, a Central American construction worker, said outside a gas station in
Langley Park one recent morning. "We do the work faster and cheaper, but no one
wants us now. I haven't sent any money home to my family since December, and I
can barely pay to sleep in my friend's apartment."

Just across University Boulevard, a battered sedan with Virginia tags pulled up
in front of a convenience store. The driver, a carpenter from Guatemala named
Raul Romano, 40, said he and his family had recently fled Prince William County,
their home for eight years, after it enacted a law allowing police to question
immigrants about their legal status.

"Now I am too scared to go back and return my license plates," said Romano, who
has lived illegally in the United States for 18 years. "I left my job, my
apartment, my daughters left their school. Now, here we are in Maryland,
starting over again. We don't know anyone, but it's safer for the moment.
Tomorrow, it might be a different story."

The 20 bills introduced in Annapolis -- a sharp increase from three last year --
include proposals that would require driver's license applicants to prove they
are lawfully in the country, voters to confirm their legal status at the polls
and local governments to enforce federal immigration laws.

Legislators said most have no chance of passage in the Democratic-controlled
General Assembly. Some have been killed in committee, and most others are
expected to languish until the legislature adjourns next month.

"The voices are louder, but I doubt a single piece of legislation will get
through," said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Mont). She said opponents of illegal
immigration are "better organized now, but they are not convincing the hearts
and minds of the people. Maryland is still an immigrant-friendly environment."

Activists against illegal immigration said the legislature is out of touch with
public frustration and concern. During hearings in the past two weeks, residents
have testified that illegal immigrants are inundating schools, hospitals and
suburban neighborhoods and warned that they might bring disease and terrorism.

Opponents also appear to have stalled legislation to give in-state college
tuition rates to the children of illegal immigrants. The measure won approval in
both chambers in 2003 before being vetoed by then-Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.
(R). Last year, the House again passed it, but it stalled in the Senate. This
year, it is not expected to emerge from a House committee.

"We have more people than we ever expected getting involved. They are mad, but
until now, they didn't know what to do about it," said Brad Botwin, a Rockville
resident who chairs the activist group Help Save Maryland. "For the first time,
the delegates and senators are hearing the majority view on the impact of
illegal immigrants on our state."

The atmosphere in some hearings has been tense and heated. In the House
Judiciary Committee, chaired by Del. Joseph F. Vallario Jr. (D-Prince George's),
one activist distributed fake "wanted" posters of Vallario wearing a sombrero.

A construction worker who attended another hearing was arrested afterward for
allegedly threatening by e-mail to strangle Gov. Martin O'Malley (D). The man's
wife said he was upset after losing work to illegal immigrants.

Susan Payne, an activist from Montgomery County, warned lawmakers that
terrorists could threaten the state if obtaining a driver's license is not made
more difficult. She also lashed out at CASA of Maryland, a nonprofit group that
advocates immigrant rights, calling its staff "paid lobbyists" for a "special
interest group."

Kim Propeack, a CASA lobbyist who helped bring dozens of Latinos to the
Annapolis hearings, said her organization was trying to counter the "ugliness"
of a small activist group by presenting real immigrants and their problems.

Among the scores of illegal laborers who congregate in parking lots and at CASA
job centers in Wheaton and Langley Park each morning, the fact that no laws are
likely to be passed against them soon does little to ease the growing
frustration and fear.

County police officers cruise the parking lots frequently and often give the
laborers warnings for loitering. They do not ask for proof of legal residency,
and police officials said their policy is to check legal status only if someone
has been arrested and charged with breaking another law. But the men know that
this has begun happening in Prince William, and they worry it could start
affecting them, too.

They are also concerned about the small but growing exodus of illegal immigrants
from Virginia. Some are showing up at the same day-laborer sites, adding to the
competition. In Langley Park Plaza one recent mid-morning, two dozen idle men
said they had been waiting for work since 6:30. Several said they had considered
returning to their homelands but were embarrassed to face their families.

"I walked for 40 days across the desert; I was hungry and thirsty; my feet were
swollen. I miss my children, but how can I go back with nothing?" said Angel
Cervantes, 33, a Mexican father of three. "I know I am here illegally, but I
believe in following the law. I never drink or even get a parking ticket," he
said. "If the day comes when they deport me, I want to go home with honor."

Nearby, a white unmarked van circled the parking lot, cruising for a quick
household moving job. The driver, a Mexican without legal papers who gave his
name as Gerardo, said he had just gotten a police ticket for parking illegally
and was relieved that the officer had not asked him for proof of legal
residence.

"Look around at this plaza. See how much life we Latinos have created here,"
Gerardo said. "There's my bank. There's my insurance agent. That's where I buy
my groceries. I used to have a good moving business with my truck, but every day
it is harder to find workers. They are all scared of being arrested now. I am
illegal, too, but I don't hurt anyone. I am helping this community grow. We all
are. Just look around!"

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Leah L. Jones For The Washington Post; A hearing last
week of the Maryland House Judiciary Committee aired legislation affecting
illegal immigrants. The hearing drew a crowd of supporters and opponents of the
bills.
IMAGE; John Kuo, right, administrator of Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration,
and Neil Berrow, an official of the Coalition for a Secure Driver's License,
testified at a hearing on a bill that would tighten rules for issuing licenses.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Law Officials to Receive Training On Visa Meant to Aid Crime Victims;
Special Pass Grants Temporary Legal Status to Some Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Sebastian Montes; Gazette Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ05

LENGTH: 443 words


Montgomery County prosecutors and law enforcement agencies will get a lesson
this month in the intricacies of special visas that give legal status to illegal
immigrants who are victims of certain crimes.

The April 16 seminar on using what are called U-visas as a tool against domestic
violence is being arranged by victim advocates, who fear that the defense
tactics of a case in January could signal a trend to discredit as opportunists
those who are candidates for the federal protection.

"I hope that the state will learn how to fight it better," said Vivian Levi,
domestic violence coordinator for the county's Abused Persons Program. "I just
don't know how the judges will handle it."

The U-visa provision grants four years of legal status for victims of domestic
violence, sex crimes, human trafficking and other offenses. Those approved for
the visas can then apply for permanent status. U-visas must be endorsed by a law
enforcement agency involved in the investigation or prosecution of the crime.

For two days in Circuit Court in January, a 49-year-old Montgomery Village
woman, an illegal immigrant from Central America, was questioned by the attorney
for her former boyfriend, Manuel Donis-Davilla, who was charged with attempted
first-degree murder. The attorney, Mary Tyler, tried to keep the woman from
testifying and to discredit her as an opportunist attempting to secure a U-visa.

After endorsing 13 U-visas in 2006 and 11 in 2007, the Montgomery State's
Attorney's Office has recorded nine such cases this year. (A Montgomery police
spokeswoman said she knew of three instances in which her department had
endorsed U-visas. Two were for the husbands of victims in the 2002 sniper
attacks, she said.)

As the numbers of U-visa cases increase, law enforcement agencies need to be
well versed in its requirements and ready to rebut attempts to discredit victims
"and not allow anything that has to do with undocumented immigrants and the
U-visa to sway the case," Levi said.

The Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based think tank that favors
strict enforcement of immigration laws, holds that legal status should be
reserved only for the most extreme cases and urges law enforcement agencies to
be circumspect and guard against false claims.

"It definitely happens," said Jessica Vaughn, a senior policy analyst for the
center. "Clearly there are some people that definitely qualify. But as in every
situation, there are going to be people who try to take advantage of it."

Donis-Davilla was found guilty of attempted murder and is undergoing a
psychiatric evaluation. He is due to be sentenced this month. His victim has
been granted a U-visa.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Pr. William to Spend $6.9 Million on Crackdown;
Immigration Initiative Costs $520,000 More Than Projected as County Makes Budget
Trims Elsewhere

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 578 words


Illegal immigration enforcement will cost $520,000 more than anticipated in the
coming budget year because of crowding at the county jail, Prince William County
Executive Craig S. Gerhart told supervisors Tuesday.

That raises the cost of the initiative to $6.9 million for the budget year that
starts July 1.

The Board of County Supervisors directed police to check the residency status of
criminal suspects who they think might be in the country illegally, under a
policy that took effect last month.

Not mentioning the recalculated cost of the initiative, board Chairman Corey A.
Stewart (R-At Large) praised U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which
started expediting the removal of illegal immigrants from the county jail last
weekend in response to complaints from local officials.

"They are quickly eliminating that backlog. I want to commend them for that. I
expect, as time goes on and Prince William sends a message that it will not
tolerate illegal immigrants who commit a crime, the numbers will dwindle,"
Stewart said, calling the county's stepped-up enforcement a "nominal success."

"We need to give this program a chance to work," he said. "We are blazing a new
trail. It's not easy. We need to define ourselves and not let the naysayers
define us."

Although the illegal immigrant initiative goes forward, other spending is being
cut. As part of his budget recap, Gerhart recommended the board contribute $4.8
million less than originally proposed to the county's "revenue stabilization"
reserve fund to make up for its shortfall.

He also recommended tapping into the county's capital reserve fund to pay for a
regional public safety communication system. The county has a separate emergency
fund for natural-disaster expenses.

"It's unfortunate, but true, that we only get to demonstrate our ability to plan
and save when times are bad," Budget Director David Tyeryar said. "Reserve funds
are only there once. So when you use them, it limits your flexibility."

The revenue stabilization reserve is accumulated money set aside each year to
use in hard times. The fund has $7.1 million.

"It's a prudent thing to retain," Gerhart said. "This is going to get worse
before it gets better."

Prince William's reduced revenue is attributed to decreased real estate and
sales taxes. "Some of our major revenue categories have seen significant
changes," Gerhart said. "We tried to solve for that."

To add to Prince William's woes, the state is sending $1.1 million less to the
county. Some road projects will have to be scaled back or eliminated because of
the loss of the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority funding. Work on
Route 1 will be reduced, and projects on Route 28 and the Prince William Parkway
will be removed from the Capital Improvements Program.

"We're not suggesting we slow down" capital projects, Gerhart said. "A small
portion of the resources we intended are no longer available to us."

The board is scheduled to mark up the budget next week.

"I'm afraid we'll come in next week blindly," Supervisor Maureen S. Caddigan
(R-Dumfries) said. "We need to take ahold of this budget and make it ours."

Supervisors advertised a real estate tax rate of $1 per $100 of assessed value.
If adopted, that rate would boost the average homeowner's tax bill by 8.25
percent.

Several supervisors have suggested adopting a lower tax rate. Each penny knocked
off the rate equals $5.1 million less in revenue. The board is expected to adopt
the budget later this month.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 473 words

Nearly 400 Arrested In Poultry-Plant Raids

IRVING, Tex.-- Nearly  400 people were arrested Wednesday in immigration and
identity theft raids at Pilgrim's Pride poultry plants in five states.

More than 100 people were arrested on immigration violations in Chattanooga,
Tenn., and Moorefield, W.Va. In Mount Pleasant, Tex.,  45 were arrested  on
charges of false use of Social Security numbers.

More than 25 people face administrative charges of immigration violations in
Live Oak, Fla. They will also face identity theft or document fraud charges.
More than 20 were arrested in Batesville, Ark., on federal warrants for alleged
document fraud or identity theft.

Ex-Mayor of Newark Convicted of Corruption

NEWARK -- Former mayor Sharpe James (D) and his ex-mistress were convicted of
corruption charges centered on her cut-rate purchase of city land.

The verdicts were a rebuke to James, who was mayor of the state's largest city
for 20 years and took credit for redevelopment that included a pro hockey arena.

James, 72, was convicted of all five charges he faced, including fraud and
conspiracy.

His ex-girlfriend, Tamika Riley, was convicted of those charges and eight
others, including evading taxes and cheating to get subsidized housing
assistance for herself.

Both remain free on bail pending sentencing, scheduled for July 29. Their
lawyers said they will appeal.

2 Women Convicted in Deaths

LOS ANGELES-- Two elderly women accused of killing two homeless men to collect
millions of dollars in insurance payouts were convicted  of conspiracy to
murder, and one of them was convicted of the murders themselves. The jury was to
hear more arguments Thursday before deciding remaining counts in the case
against Helen Golay, 77, and Olga Rutterschmidt, 75.  Golay was convicted of the
first-degree murders of Kenneth McDavid, 50, in 2005 and Paul Vados, 73, in
1999. Rutterschmidt was convicted of conspiracy to murder McDavid for financial
gain.

2 Firefighters Killed in Colo.

ORDWAY, Colo. -- Stunned residents surveyed the smoldering ruins of their homes
after a fast-moving wildfire swept through parts of this farm town on Colorado's
eastern plains, killing two volunteer firefighters, scorching grassland and
forcing hundreds to flee. That 14-square-mile fire was contained . But a
15-square-mile blaze raged nearly out of control at the Army's Fort Carson after
killing a firefighting pilot.

Arrest Made in Ricin Case

LAS VEGAS -- An unemployed graphic designer who authorities think was nearly
killed by ricin was arrested on federal charges that he possessed the deadly
toxin as part of an "exotic idea," never carried out, to poison his enemies.
Roger Bergendorff, 57, who authorities allege began making ricin a decade ago,
was arrested upon his release from the hospital where he had been treated since
Feb. 14.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 19, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

An Illegal Immigrant's Legal Paradox;
Paying Child Support Means Breaking the Law

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1080 words


The way Jaime R. Villagran tells it, to avoid going to jail, he would have had
to break one law to obey another.

The Guatemalan native acknowledged that he owed more than $11,000 in child
support when he appeared last month in Fairfax County Juvenile and Domestic
Relations District Court. But to pay it, Villagran told the judge, he would have
to work illegally because he was awaiting permanent residency and work
authorization from the U.S. government. He refused to do that.

"Were I to go to work and get caught, then what? I would have nothing,"
Villagran, 33, of Prince William County, said in the Fairfax jail. "If they
deported me, there are two kids with no dad, no money. Who's going to be paying
for what they need in the future?"

With the immigration debate at a roar nationally, Villagran's case illustrates a
moral and legal quandary. Locally,  groups that oppose illegal immigration  want
the government to crack down on those in the country illegally and to punish
employers who hire them. But many immigrants live in a complicated state of
limbo. Physically but not legally in the United States, they are bound by
federal and local laws, even when the two collide.

"You try to do the right thing, and it ends up being the wrong thing," Villagran
said.

On March 20, he was ordered to serve 90 days in jail for civil contempt.

Villagran's fear of deportation is hardly groundless.  This month, federal
immigration authorities raided a Loudoun County resort, detaining 59
foreign-born workers. A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement official said
in a statement that companies using "cheap, illegal alien labor as a business
model should be on notice that ICE is dramatically enhancing its enforcement
efforts." On March 24, authorities also raided a Prince William construction
site, detaining 34 suspected illegal immigrants from Latin America. Ernestine
Fobbs, an ICE spokeswoman, said any immigrant caught working without
authorization is subject to a hearing at which a judge decides whether
deportation is warranted.

"It's a case-by-case basis," Fobbs said, adding  that it's "an honorable person
who says, 'I don't want to work without authorization.' "

Kay Cullen, a spokeswoman for the National Child Support Enforcement
Association, based in Silver Spring, said growth in the Hispanic immigrant
population is changing caseloads nationally. Enforcement agencies, she said,
recognize the need to reach out to the immigrant community.

Cullen said she had not heard of anyone else presenting an argument  similar to
Villagran's in court. It is more common, she said, for immigrants to say they
misunderstood or feared the child support system.

"This is different," Cullen said. "It's a very logical argument."

Whether the argument is ethical is another question, she added.

"It is a moral obligation to take care of your children," she said. "I think
these children deserve the emotional and financial support of both parents,
whether or not those parents live together," she said.

In Virginia, one child in four depends on child support, said Phyllis Sisk,
assistant director of the Division of Child Support Enforcement in the Virginia
Department of Social Services. As of February, Sisk said, the division was
handling 359,000 cases, involving 484,000 children who are owed more than $2.4
billion.

Sisk said officials never ask about citizenship or immigration status because
any person who owes child support is required to pay. "We stress that of
paramount importance is the child, that both parents have a financial obligation
to their children," she said.

She said officials aim to collect through the "least invasive, least intrusive"
action possible. "The bottom line is, we want to get the financial support for
the children," she said. "We're not trying to put people in jail. That's one of
the last things we do."

Villagran said he had hoped the state would recognize that he paid child support
for years to the mother of his two children,  9 and 13. It's just that he  hit
"a gap" in life, he said.

Villagran said he entered the United States illegally with his brother when he
was 14, crossing the border near Tijuana en route to joining his mother and
father in Virginia. Villagran said that he dropped out of high school and
obtained a work visa when he was about 18 and that he sold mattresses for years
before taking a job refinishing metal.

Court records show Villagran paid $500 a month consistently from November 2001
until fall 2005. About that time, he injured a knee while working, according to
records from a workers' compensation claim he filed.

In pain, out of a job and awaiting a settlement, Villagran said he made a
crucial mistake: He allowed his work permit to expire.

Villagran said he moved back into his mother's Dale City home as he waited for a
$6,000 workers' compensation settlement. He said he had planned to use the money
to help pay child support and a lawyer who was completing his immigration
paperwork. Court documents show that $3,900 was to go directly to child support
and the rest, $2,100, to Villagran.

"It's not that I don't want to work," Villagran said. "They are my daughters.
Once I get my work permit, if they want to take the entire check and leave me
with $50, I'm fine with it. Even $25."

But he said he will not stand at the 7-Eleven in Woodbridge, among day laborers
who just arrived in the country, and risk a secure future for the sake of a
day's pay.

"I'm trying to be here for my kids," he said. "I'm trying to be here until they
grow up."

If he gets his work permit, he said, he would like to sell cars or houses.

"These are doors of opportunities when you have your papers," Villagran said.
Without them, he said, he would remain in fear, "waiting for immigration
[authorities] to crash through."

Villagran's court-appointed lawyer,  Gary M. Greenbaum, said the entire workers'
compensation payment will go toward child support. But that did not change the
judge's decision to send Villagran to jail. The only way Villagran can get out
in less than three months is to pay the full amount owed, $11,291, a figure that
rises every month.

Calls to Judge Helen F. Leiner were not returned.

"It's a Catch-22," Greenbaum said. "What troubles me is this guy intends to work
as soon as he's legally entitled to do it. He's trying to do this the right way
and make a life here."

Greenbaum said: "Adding insult to injury," Leiner authorized his client to take
part in a work-release program.

Villagran, of course, is not eligible.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By James M. Thresher -- The Washington Post; "I'm trying to be
here for my kids. I'm trying to be here until they grow up," said Jaime R.
Villagran, who is awaiting reinstatement of his work permit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Video Cameras in Police Cars Might Not Be Funded

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 609 words


Funding for illegal immigration enforcement in Prince William County was slashed
almost in half last night when the Board of County Supervisors tentatively
decided not to install cameras in county police cars.

In all, supervisors cut the proposed budget by $6.7 million. That amount brings
the property tax rate to 97 cents per $100 assessed valuation. The change would
amount to a 5 percent increase in the tax bill of the average homeowner.

Installing cameras and monitoring the footage would cost $3.1 million, which
accounts for much of the $6.9 million in the coming year's budget for illegal
immigration enforcement. Police Chief Charlie T. Deane had requested cameras to
protect the county against allegations of racial profiling as officers check the
residency status of criminal suspects who they think are in the country
illegally.

County Executive Craig S. Gerhart said of the illegal immigration enforcement:
"One of the best defenses we have if we get sued is the video footage from the
cameras. This may be a short-term savings that turns into a long-term expense."

The cut is "contingent upon an acceptable recommendation from staff that would
limit the county's potential liability," Chairman Corey A. Stewart said.

He proposed $21 million in budget cuts yesterday, delaying a planned vote by the
board on the county's spending plan for the coming year.

Stewart's proposal caught some supervisors by surprise. The board was scheduled
to mark up the $913 million budget yesterday, and supervisors usually offer
spending cuts in advance so they can be discussed.

"I'm pleased the chairman came up with something," said Supervisor Martin E.
Nohe (R-Coles). "I would rather have the proposal at the last minute in lieu of
no proposal at all. But having a weekend to review it would have been helpful."

Stewart (R) said there is no county procedure for offering budget amendments.
The board was planning to meet late into the night to consider the budget, and a
final vote is scheduled for next week.

Stewart recommended that the board not provide funds for patrol car video
cameras, which police requested to implement the county's illegal immigration
policy. He also suggested reducing planned police and fire department staffing
increases, eliminating the office on youth and forgoing a pay increase for
supervisors.

Stewart also proposed trimming about 85 employee positions, which would cut $5
million from the budget, and suspending an incentive pay program for county
employees, for an additional $4.1 million in savings.

Prince William is the last major jurisdiction in Northern Virginia to set its
property tax rate. The county, like others in the region squeezed by declining
real estate values and a slumping economy, plans to raise the rate.

The board initially set the tax rate at $1 for each $100 of assessed value. If
adopted, it would increase the average tax bill for homeowners by 8 percent.
Several supervisors have advocated a lower rate.

Several people spoke for and against full funding of the illegal immigration
measures yesterday.

Greg Letiecq, president of Help Save Manassas, a group that works against
illegal immigration and advocated for the resolution, encouraged supervisors to
stay the course. "Instead of throwing our hands up and saying this is a federal
issue, you've enacted the rule-of-law resolution that is improving our quality
of life," he said.

Jean Reynolds of Woodbridge asked the board to keep her tax dollars for services
such as public safety and schools instead of paying for the illegal immigration
measures. "I don't know why Prince William County thinks it can do the job of
the federal government," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 28, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

N.Va. Hit With Cost Of School Migration;
Pr. William Policies Drive Immigrants To Inner Suburbs

BYLINE: Amy Gardner; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 922 words


Hundreds of foreign-born families have pulled their children from Prince William
County public schools and enrolled them in nearby Fairfax County, Arlington
County and Alexandria since the start of the school year, imposing a new
financial burden on those inner suburbs in a time of lean budgets.

The school-to-school migration within Northern Virginia started just as Prince
William began implementing rules to deny some services to illegal immigrants and
require police to check the immigration status of crime suspects thought to be
in the country illegally.

Opponents of the rules say they have had a chilling effect on Prince William's
once-thriving Latino community, prompting even legal immigrants to flee a
hostile environment. Supporters say the rules have done what they were supposed
to by primarily pushing illegal immigrants out.

"The resolution is clearly working," said Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large),
chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors. "It is driving down
the non-English-speaking portion of the schools and saving us millions of
dollars. They're going to other jurisdictions and costing them money."

Stewart called those jurisdictions "sanctuary" cities and counties, saying
illegal immigrants are welcome there. He added: "There is going to be pressure
to enact similar resolutions in those neighboring cities and counties."
Officials from those jurisdictions reject that assertion.

Until now, the evidence of a migration has been largely anecdotal, making it
difficult to measure or trace its causes. Data from school systems, however,
provide the most concrete evidence to date that a significant exodus of
immigrants is underway -- and that most of those leaving are settling in
neighboring communities.

According to the Prince William school system, enrollment in the English for
speakers of other languages, or ESOL, program dropped by 759 between September
and March 31. It was the first known instance of a decline in ESOL students,
said Irene Cromer, a schools spokeswoman.

During that period, 623 ESOL students from Prince William enrolled in Fairfax
schools, compared with 241 in the same period the previous year. Eighty-three
enrolled in Arlington, and 75 signed up in Alexandria, the latter up from 10.

Twenty-three ESOL students from Prince William enrolled in Loudoun County,
officials there said.

School officials in Fairfax and Arlington said the new students are scattered
across a number of schools, minimizing their effect on programs and budgets. In
Fairfax, for example, a net increase of about 400 students isn't so dramatic
when measured against the county's overall ESOL population of more than 21,000
students.

"We get about 6,000 new language-minority students a year," said Teddi Predaris,
director of Fairfax's Office of ESOL Services. "An increase of 400 is
noticeable, but what adjective you put in front of it depends on your
perspective."

Still, Stewart noted that Prince William's schools expect to save $6 million in
education costs as a result of the exodus -- a cost that will be borne by the
other communities. Some officials in Fairfax and elsewhere say they expect the
numbers to climb in the next academic year.

"The combination of what's happening in Prince William and our own budget
concerns increases anxiety across the system," said Deirdre Lavery, principal of
Glasgow Middle School in the Alexandria section of Fairfax, where 14 students
transferred from Prince William this school year.

The transfers come as most local governments are strapped for revenue because of
the sagging real estate market.

Local leaders outside Prince William rejected Stewart's assertion that the
exodus will increase political pressure to crack down on illegal immigrants.
Fairfax leaders recently increased funding for the Enhanced Code Enforcement
Strike Team, intended to combat property blight and crowding, which some
residents have blamed on immigrants. Leaders have been careful to "focus on
behavior and not demonize categories of people," said Gerald E. Connolly (D),
chairman of the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors.

"It's silly for Mr. Stewart to refer to any jurisdiction as a 'sanctuary
county,' " Connolly said. "That's just inflammatory and demagogic."

Immigration advocates also disputed Stewart's claim that those leaving Prince
William are primarily illegal immigrants.

"The majority of our families here were mixed-status families," said Nancy
Lyall, a volunteer with Mexicans Without Borders. "You're forcing the legal
residents to leave the county as well. And, of course, many of the children are
legal as well, and they're being forced to leave, too."

Still, the Prince William migration could place further pressure on Fairfax's
code enforcement efforts. It is a reversal of the trend of immigrants moving to
Prince William to find affordable housing. Their return to the inner suburbs
could lead to more instances of the kind of crowding that officials are seeking
to halt.

Arlington's Randolph Elementary School, for instance, "has gotten back" some of
the very Latino students whose families had moved away, Superintendent Robert G.
Smith said. Smith said his schools are able to absorb the students for now, like
Fairfax.

But he urged the State Board of Education, which asked the school systems in
March to measure the Prince William exodus, to consider helping schools pay for
the new students.

"We don't have an offer of help at this point, but I would certainly welcome
it," Smith said.

Staff writer Michael Alison Chandler contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Oct. 21-27

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 602 words

Illegal Immigration Is Key Voter Issue More in Va. Want Officials Who Confront
It

Illegal immigration has emerged as a key issue in Virginia's Nov. 6 election,
particularly in Northern Virginia, where voters say they are seeking candidates
who will address it, according to a Washington Post poll.

Three-quarters of likely voters in Virginia said immigration is important in
elections for state and local offices. A year ago, immigration ranked seventh
out of 10 issues listed in a Post poll before the U.S. Senate race. Since then,
the number of Virginia voters calling immigration "extremely" or "very"
important to their vote has jumped 15 percentage points.

Rush Is on to Push Loudoun Projects Developers, Others Wary of Odds After
Election

Developers and other companies are rushing to have their projects approved by
the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors before the end of the year, fearing that
a shift to a slow-growth board after the Nov. 6 election could hamper their
plans.

In the six weeks between the election and the end of the term, the board is
expected to consider more than 50 items, so many that at least one extra public
hearing has been scheduled. Not all of the items involve development, but the
meeting agendas include discussions of six  cellphone towers and three
developments that could add thousands of homes to the county.

Labs Must Advise Va. of Staph Cases Governor's Order Follows Rise in Infections


Virginia Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) approved an emergency regulation requiring
laboratories to report all cases of drug-resistant staph infections to the state
Health Department.

The requirement, effective immediately, was prompted by concerns over a growing
number of reports of infections of the virulent staph bacterium across the
state, including many in schools. A Bedford County teenager died after the
infection spread to his kidneys, liver, lungs and the muscle around his heart.

The data will allow state health officials to monitor cases of
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and offer guidance on how to ward
off infections, officials said. Although infections can be serious, steps such
as hand-washing can limit risk.

It's Official: Davis Not in Senate Race House Member Says GOP's Focus Too Narrow


U.S. Rep. Thomas M. Davis III said he will not run for U.S. Senate next year, in
part because of what he sees as the Republican Party's increasingly narrow focus
on candidates who pass conservative litmus tests on taxes and abortion.

Davis (R-Va.), who has been preparing for a Senate bid for years, wouldn't rule
out a future run, such as a challenge to James Webb (D) in 2012. He said he will
decide later whether to try to retain his House seat next year.

Across the Region Metro Fare Increases; Train Operator Faulted

Â· Minimum rush-hour subway fares could rise as much as 30 cents, bus fares
could go up a dime and parking fees could increase by $1.15 under a plan agreed
to by Metro board members that now must go before the public. Members said the
amounts of the suggested increases are likely to change by December, when the
board is to make a final decision after a series of public hearings. Under Metro
rules, the board can only lower the proposed changes, not raise them.

Â· The operator of the Yellow Line train that struck and killed two Metro track
workers in Alexandria almost a year ago failed to follow proper procedures while
operating the train. She also lied to federal investigators about being on her
cellphone when she hit the emergency brake, according to reports and interview
transcripts released by the National Transportation Safety Board.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; "Move your boombsey!"
Meredith Walters, a member of the Gye Nyame African Cultural Dance Company, and
others shake their backsides and more in a Kukuwa class at a gym in Great Falls.
Kukuwa Nuamah (not shown), founder of the dance group, taught herself to dance
while growing up in Ghana.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Feisty Round 2 in Battle for Chairman;
Illegal Immigration Is Likely to Be a Major Issue in Stewart-Pandak Rematch

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 646 words


Prince William County Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart has really never stopped
running for the office he claimed 10 months ago.

That's because Stewart (R-At Large) knew he would face Democrat Sharon E. Pandak
again. He defeated her in last year's special election to replace Sean T.
Connaughton (R), who resigned to head the U.S. Maritime Administration.

This time, a full four-year term is on the line.

Pandak said she is running because she does not want to leave the county's fate
in Stewart's  hands. Stewart has neglected the biggest issues facing Prince
William, including an anticipated budget shortfall, to push through a crackdown
on illegal immigration that "means nothing," she said.

Stewart, who previously represented the Occoquan District, started his term as
chairman by passing a year-long freeze on applications for residential
development. He also pressed to keep tax bills flat by squeezing county services
and trimming staff. It wasn't until this summer that illegal immigration became
Stewart's signature issue.

Although Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville) introduced the
anti-illegal immigrant resolution, it was Stewart who championed the county's
plan to deny some public services to illegal immigrants and to increase
immigration enforcement by police.

The county's stance evolved. After listening to 12 hours of emotionally charged
testimony, the board passed a measure curtailing the services it can legally
withhold, including help for substance abuse, homeless assistance and county
programs for the elderly.

Although the Board of Supervisors unanimously approved the resolution, Stewart
drew the ire of some of his colleagues, who accused him of electioneering from
the dais.

Yet, ask him the most pressing issue the county faces and immigration no longer
tops his list. If reelected, Stewart said, he would advocate for long-term
land-use changes and assessing transportation impact fees on developers. Pandak
said she would work to control growth, ease traffic gridlock and reestablish "a
sense of stability" in the county's budget, which she said has been through
"massive swings in tax rates." Both adamantly oppose the planned conversion of
Interstate 95's HOV lanes to high-occupancy toll, or HOT, lanes.

Pandak, 54, a lawyer and former county attorney, has lived in Prince William for
20 years. She received the county's highest job-performance rating before going
into private practice three years ago. Her experience and familiarity with the
county, she has said, qualify her for the job.

Stewart, a trade lawyer, is not unlike many of Prince Williams' newest
residents. He and his young family moved here from Fairfax County six years ago.
Stewart, 39, also has expressed interest in running for higher office. Pandak,
during a recent debate, said Prince William is not a way station for her.

Their styles couldn't be more different. He tends to talk in sound bites, while
she speaks in paragraphs.

Pandak has a larger campaign staff and has outraised Stewart, but  he has more
than twice as much in the bank than she does, according to the latest campaign
finance reports.

As he did a year ago, Stewart has sought to make an issue of Pandak's
contributions, saying she is heavily financed by residential developers who have
routed money to her directly and through the state Democratic Party. Campaign
finance reports show, however, that the two have received nearly equal
contributions from the real estate and construction industry. Developers have
given Stewart $48,000, compared to Pandak's $47,000.

Although Stewart appears to be counting on his increased name recognition to
return him to office, he recently lost  a significant, if less-publicized, vote.
A proposal to sharply increase the impact fees charged to developers, known as
proffers, failed 6 to 3. The only members supporting the measure were incumbents
facing reelection.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Chairman
Corey A. Stewart said he plans to address land-use changes, while challenger
Sharon E. Pandak said she would reestablish stability in the budget.
IMAGE; Photos By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Chairman Corey A.
Stewart said he plans to address land-use changes, while challenger Sharon E.
Pandak said she would reestablish stability in the budget.
IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Sharon E. Pandak and Corey
A. Stewart both oppose converting HOV lanes on Interstate 95 to HOT lanes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Spitzer Chose to Compromise on Immigrant Licenses

BYLINE: Dafna Linzer; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Oct. 31


When New York Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer (D) announced six weeks ago that illegal
immigrants would be able to obtain driver's licenses in his state, he expected
some opposition, but not a national firestorm. After all, seven other states,
under Republican and Democratic governors, had implemented similar plans without
much notice.

But what began as a way for undocumented residents to take road tests and obtain
auto insurance without fear of deportation turned into a divisive issue within
his own party yesterday and among some of his closest supporters.

"Anything today is going to be more contentious since we went through a failed
immigration reform effort," Spitzer said in an interview. "The second reason why
this may have become such an issue is the presidential campaigns, where
immigration politics is front and center."

Spitzer's plan rocked New York when it was unveiled on Sept. 21. But Tuesday's
Democratic presidential debate threw a national spotlight on the effort when
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York appeared to waver on whether she
supported the initiative. At least one of her challengers staunchly opposed the
proposal, while several others chastised her for appearing not to take a
stronger stand.

Steve Malanga, a scholar with the conservative Manhattan Institute, suggested
that Tuesday's Democratic debate highlighted "doubt about the license program,"
adding: "If candidates from your own party are using it as a wedge issue, you
have a problem."

Spitzer's staff consulted with Clinton's today, but he would not say what he
understood her position to be on the issue.

New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson did not address the topic during the debate,
though he implemented a similar plan during his first year in Santa Fe. Health
and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt, a former Republican governor of Utah,
also issued driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. Leavitt's plan was reversed
by his Republican successor after he left the state to join the Bush
administration.

In pitching the proposal six weeks ago,  Spitzer, a former New York attorney
general, noted that states have to contend with the consequences of millions of
illegal immigrants in the absence of a cohesive national policy. He argued that
licenses would force as many as 1 million New Yorkers to complete road tests and
obtain auto insurance, bringing down premiums and offering illegal immigrants a
way into a legally accountable system.

But foes said the plan rewarded illegal behavior, and some said it could harm
national security, noting that several of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers had
boarded planes with illegally obtained licenses.

After negotiations with the Department of Homeland Security and personal calls
with Secretary Michael Chertoff, Spitzer announced a revised, three-tiered plan
last week in which undocumented immigrants will be issued a license that cannot
be used to board flights or cross borders. The licenses will be flagged "not for
federal purposes."

Homeland Security officials said the plan satisfied their concerns. But
immigrant rights groups that have been supportive of Spitzer decried it and
accused the governor of abandoning a "one license for all" approach.

"A tiered system is clearly a system of separate and unequal licenses," said
Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. "In
this poisonous environment regarding illegal immigrants, and with county clerks
threatening to turn over applicants to the county sheriff, it is an invitation
for racial profiling and anti-immigrant hostility," she said.

Spitzer pledged to work "extraordinarily hard to make sure that won't happen."

In an agreement with Homeland Security, Spitzer won a concession from the
federal government allowing an enhanced version of the state driver's license to
be used for frequent travelers across the Canadian border. Beginning in January,
the government will require a passport or other secure form of identification
for land crossings. The mandate has provoked deep concerns in border states that
huge lines at crossings could adversely affect commercial traffic and tourism.

"The most important thing for us is security," Stewart A. Baker, assistant DHS
secretary for policy, said, adding that New York will become the fourth state,
after Washington, Vermont and Arizona to reach an agreement on the border card
and the largest state to embrace controversial new national standards for
driver's licenses. "Now that New York is on board, we expect to see several more
states come on," he said.

Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu and staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to
this report from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Rivals Share Many Issues But Take Different Directions;
Transportation, Immigration Figure Prominently in Race

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW11

LENGTH: 458 words


Traffic congestion, illegal immigration and growth are among the top issues for
both candidates in the race for Prince William County's 29th Senate District
this year.

The incumbent, Sen. Charles J. Colgan (D), said that he has offered strong
solutions to each of the problems during his career in office and that his
seniority in the General Assembly makes him the more effective candidate.

His opponent, Robert S. FitzSimmonds (R), has sought to portray Colgan as being
out of touch with the district, particularly on illegal immigration.

The 29th District includes western portions of Prince William County and the
cities of Manassas and Manassas Park.

Colgan, 81, said he's running out of "a sense of duty" and is concerned that the
transportation package passed this year does not address the state's needs. He
said he supports a sales tax on gas but admitted it would be hard to get such a
measure through the General Assembly. He touted his recent efforts to bring
money to projects throughout the district, such as increased funding for
Virginia Railway Express.

On illegal immigration, Colgan, who is running for his ninth term, supports a
plan being considered by the state that would fund a facility to hold illegal
immigrants while they await action by  federal authorities. He said that there
needs to be better enforcement of current federal laws and that the state needs
to crack down on employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

FitzSimmonds, 55, said he would punish employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants, deny in-state tuition benefits at public universities to students
who are here illegally and require information on legal status for all public
school students.

The two candidates said the abusive-driver fees passed this year should be
repealed in January. The fees, part of the transportation plan, are designed to
raise millions each year by imposing surcharges on fines for Virginia drivers
convicted of serious traffic offenses. But they have sparked an outcry.

"I would vote to repeal them and reimburse the folks their money," said Colgan,
who voted against the fee legislation when it came up in previous sessions but
voted for the amendments to the 2007 transportation bill that made the fees law.
"It was a bad idea from the start."

FitzSimmonds, who owns a medical transcription business with his wife, Debbie,
said he is opposed to new taxes and would look for savings in state government
to fund transportation projects, although he did not name specific programs that
he would target. He also said the current transportation plan is insufficient.

"This year's plan is not a transportation solution," said FitzSimmonds, who ran
unsuccessfully against Colgan in 1999. "It does not even begin to meet the
need."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

The County's Changing Face Brings Political Challenges;
Candidates Differ on Illegal Immigration, Growth Issues

BYLINE: Fredrick Kunkle; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW17

LENGTH: 587 words


Illegal immigration, traffic and the pace of development are among the top
issues for both candidates in Prince William County's delegate race in District
52 this year.

The incumbent, Del. Jeffrey M. Frederick (R), said that he has offered strong
solutions to each of the problems since taking office in 2004 and that seniority
in the General Assembly will make him even more effective if elected to a third
term.

Frederick said his  crowning achievement was helping to push a law that requires
the Virginia Department of Transportation  to conduct traffic studies before
housing developments can be approved.  Frederick said he also has held the line
against higher taxes and urged stricter measures against undocumented workers.

"There's so much to do, and I've delivered tangible results to the 52nd
District," Frederick, 32, said. "I've also kept my promises."

Christopher K. Brown, a Democratic challenger who served one term as mayor of
Dumfries and more than a decade on its Town Council, depicted Frederick as a
"rigid ideologue" who has been ineffectual in addressing the issues of a
fast-growing suburb. Brown also criticized Frederick for supporting the
controversial and recently enacted abusive- driver fees -- a position Frederick
disputes.

"I've seen so many broken things in these past few years," Brown, 51, said.

District 52 covers part of Prince William east of Interstate 95, as well as a
swath of voters stretching westward along Dumfries Road. Growth, crowding and
rapid suburbanization have also changed the political currents as the county has
grown 27 percent since 2000 to more than 357,000 people, according to the Census
Bureau. About 20 percent of its residents are foreign-born, and officials say
many are illegal. A study last year found that the county spent at least $3
million providing services to illegal immigrants.

Both Brown and Frederick talked tough about illegal immigration, saying it was
time that state and local governments step in to fix a problem that has worsened
because of the federal government's neglect. But they differed on tactics.

Frederick would strip local governments of state funding for economic and
transportation development if they allow illegal immigrants to receive public
assistance.

"Virginia has made itself too inviting to illegals," Frederick said, criticizing
in particular Fairfax and Arlington counties for offering "sanctuary" to illegal
immigrants.

Brown said Frederick's proposal to cut state funding to localities that serve
illegal immigrants would backfire in their home district.

"We would be the biggest group of people harmed the most," said Brown, who said
he would push for fines of as much as $10,000 per offense against employers who
knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

"I believe that you attack it from the demand side," Brown said.

Frederick said several bills such as the measure requiring traffic studies for
new development demonstrate his ability to work across party lines. Frederick
said that when Brown was the mayor of Dumfries, Brown left a divisive legacy.
"The guys who know him best are all supporting me," Frederick said. "I think
that's a testament."

Brown, a certified public accountant who also served on the Dumfries Town
Council from 1985 to 1998, dismissed his opponent's assertion.

"You're going to have political adversaries no matter where you go," he said.

Brown served as mayor from 1998 to 2002 in the town of about 4,800 people.

Frederick is chief executive of GXS Strategies, a small IT consulting company he
formed in 1998.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Still Focusing on Immigration, Miller, Rishell Reprise 2006;
Race Centers On Freshman Delegate's Assembly Record

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW15

LENGTH: 547 words


The race for House District 50 probably seems familiar to voters, and for good
reason. It features the same two candidates who sparred against each other for
the seat last fall and a big issue that's only gotten bigger, illegal
immigration.

This time, though, incumbent Jackson Hunter Miller (R) has a record in Richmond,
one that he says shows his commitment to battling illegal immigration and that
Democrat Jeanette M. Rishell says shows how out of touch the assembly's
Republican leaders are.

Last year, Miller defeated Rishell to fill out the term of the late Harry J.
Parrish (R) in a district that includes Manassas, Manassas Park and part of
Prince William County.

In his first term, Miller sponsored several bills to crack down on illegal
immigrants, including a highly publicized measure that would have denied state
and local funding from charities and other organizations that provide services
to unauthorized immigrants. That bill passed in the House but died in a Senate
committee.

If reelected, Miller, a police officer and real estate agent, vows to continue
his efforts against illegal immigration, which he calls a "drain on public
services." He pledges to revive some of his failed bills and push for federal
training for state law enforcement and jail officials so they can start the
deportation process for illegal immigrants who commit crimes.

"I was on the forefront of bringing the immigration issue to the statehouse,"
Miller said. "I was proud to have gone down and represented Manassas in a
dignified way . . . and I look forward to going back."

Rishell said her priority is preserving the district's quality of life, which
includes fighting illegal immigration. She supports $10,000 fines for employers
who hire unauthorized workers.

Voters want fresh ideas, she said, and Miller's first term "was very much a
reflection of the current majority party leadership." Rishell calls herself a
"moderate Democrat" with grass-roots support.

"I will not be beholden," she said. "The commonwealth has drifted so far to the
extreme right-wing position. . . . We're ready to come back to some balance in
the General Assembly."

Miller, a Northern Virginia native who has lived in Manassas for eight years, is
a former Manassas City Council member and father of two. Rishell, who is on
leave from her job as a project assistant at a mortgage company, has lived in
Manassas Park for 13 years. She is a mother of two and grandmother of three.

Both candidates for the booming and increasingly gridlocked district also pledge
to concentrate on transportation issues.

Miller said his focus is on micro-level projects, such as improvements for the
Route 28 corridor in Manassas and Prince William and pushing for the
long-proposed and studied "tri-county parkway," which would link the Manassas
area to Loudoun County.

Rishell said she would push for dedicated revenue for transportation projects
and expansion of Virginia Railway Express. She would also rescind
abusive-driving fees, which she called "poorly planned."

On that, the candidates agree. Miller said state lawmakers, himself included,
"screwed up" in the execution of the fees. He said he supports the concept but
wants to see it overhauled to include out-of-state drivers and exempt first-time
speeders from the hefty fines.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

David B. Albo (R)* Âo

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA38

LENGTH: 249 words

David B. Albo (R)* Â·

Age:  45

Residence: South County.

Education: BA, economics, University of Virginia; law degree, University of
Richmond.

Occupation: Founding partner, Albo & Oblon, LLP.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Virginia House of Delegates,
1994-present; chairman, Courts of Justice Committee; chairman, Crime Commission;
co-chairman, Illegal Immigration Task Force.;  past president, West Springfield
Civic Association; past guardian ad litem for abused and neglected children;
past prosecutor for Fairfax City; member, West Springfield Rotary Club.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Transportation and illegal immigration. My transportation bill delivers more
money to Northern Virginia than any bill in history. Every illegal alien child
costs $12,000 a year to educate. This costs Fairfax $240 million a year! We must
preserve taxpayer resources for citizens and legal immigrants. In addition,
illegal aliens comprise 6 percent of our prison population and 50 percent of
MS-13. To combat this, I wrote and passed laws banning illegal aliens from
acquiring driver's licenses, barring adult illegal aliens from non-emergency
taxpayer benefits, and making Virginia's anti-gang laws the toughest in the
U.S."

Why should voters elect you?

"I listen to my constituents and work to solve their problems. For example, my
transportation bill widens Rolling Road and I-95, and completes the parkway."

Web site:

http://www.davealbo.com

E-mail address:

dave@davealbo.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Illegal Immigration Overshadows Other Issues in Race for Board

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW04

LENGTH: 1010 words


Illegal immigration is the dominant issue in races for the Prince William Board
of County Supervisors.

Although there is only one open seat, several incumbents are being challenged,
including Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R), who championed the county's recently
passed crackdown on illegal immigrants, and Supervisor John T. Stirrup
(R-Gainesville), who introduced the immigration resolution this summer.

A crowded field is running in the Woodbridge District race to replace longtime
Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D), who announced her retirement in April. Barg, who
had the seat for 20 years, endorsed businessman Frank J. Principi just before
the Democratic primary in June. The other candidates are Republican Chris A.
Royse and independents Steven Keen and Luis Ramirez.

Principi, who has lived in Woodbridge since 1992, owns a small business that
specializes in emergency management and homeland security.

"We need to celebrate our diversity, not crackdown on illegal immigrants," said
Principi, whose wife is from Peru. "It is very personal for me and my family.
The Republican-led debate has spread fear and dissension in this community. It
has destroyed relationships, embarrassed us as a county and ruined our
reputation in the business community."

Principi's priorities, if elected, would be controlling growth and attracting
commercial development to keep pace with the residential boom of the past
decade. He also is advocating a Potomac River commuter ferry that would run to
the Navy Yard and Pentagon and help reduce  traffic on Route 1 and Interstate
95.

Royse moved to Woodbridge in 1998 to work with the FBI on budget issues related
to weapons of mass destruction. Royse, a former Army special operator who is  on
the board of directors for the Prince William County/Manassas Convention and
Visitors Bureau, wants to revitalize the Route 1 corridor and supports local
enforcement of immigration laws.

Royse would adopt a broken-windows strategy -- going after people on small
offenses, including littering, loitering and jaywalking -- to deter major
crimes. He also would go after people who knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

"We might not get you on that," he said of the employment laws the federal
government is tasked with enforcing. "But we will put you under a period of
intense scrutiny. You will eventually trip up. If we enforce the little things
and the big guys realize it's too risky to do business here and they move on."

Keen said he would have supported the anti-illegal immigrant resolution had he
been a supervisor. But he would have been more specific about which activities
would trigger a check by police of someone's immigration status, rather than
allowing officers to question anyone who breaks the law.

"Yes, you should leave if you are here illegally, but this is not a witch hunt,"
said Keen, who works for the Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.

Had supervisors enforced the county's zoning laws, they might not have needed a
resolution to curb illegal immigration, Keen said. "Suddenly the people who have
done nothing come marching in to make themselves the heroes of the crisis they
created," he said.

Ramirez, a retired occupational safety and health specialist with the Navy, said
he is running because the Hispanic community needs representation on the board.

"The minority community needs an advocate," Ramirez said.

His wife, Denita, represents Woodbridge on the Prince William County School
Board. With two children in public high school, Luis Ramirez said he wants to
ensure the schools' budget is fully funded. He, too, wants more business
development on Route 1.

Stirrup being challenged by Democrat Corey R. Riley. Stirrup, first elected in
2003, is running for a second term. He continues to bill himself as a
slow-growth, anti-tax Republican. Complaints about "over-crowded residential
houses, late-night loitering, gang activity and undocumented day laborers" led
him to write the anti-illegal immigrant resolution, he said.

Riley, who is the executive director of the Greater Prince William Community
Health Center, did not return phone calls seeking comment.

He has said the lack of attention paid to education, human services, traffic,
growth and public safety led to a "crisis state" in the county. On illegal
immigration, Riley has said, supervisors attempted to score "cheap political
points," rather than deal with the issues surrounding undocumented residents in
a "responsible and practical way," according to his campaign Web site.

Supervisor Michael C. May (R-Occoquan) is being challenged by John S. Gray. May
has represented the district since January, when he won a special election to
replace Stewart, who vacated the seat to run for chairman.

May, a lawyer, was a Planning Commission member before being elected to the
board. His tenure has been focused on controlling growth. He has pressed for
fewer residential units, more office space and more high-end retail development.
He also is working to implement an impact fee on developers, which would allow
the county to charge fees to new developments to mitigate the transportation
impacts they help create.

Gray, who has  lived in the county  for 20 years, said May's inexperience is
evident.

"Mike doesn't have the institutional knowledge of where we've been or where we
are going," said Gray, a certified public accountant who said he would bring
fiscal expertise to the board.

With the county facing an expected $10 million shortfall, Gray said, he would
make cuts, adding that there is "no way to avoid a tax increase." Gray
unsuccessfully challenged Stewart in a caucus for the Republican nomination for
chairman last year. Now he is running as an independent.

Stewart faces a rematch against Democrat Sharon E. Pandak for the chairman's
seat. He defeated her last year in a special election to replace Sean T.
Connaughton (R), who resigned to head the U.S. Maritime Administration.

Supervisors W.S. "Wally" Covington III (R-Brentsville), Martin E. Nohe
(R-Coles), Maureen S. Caddigan (R-Dumfries) and John D. Jenkins (D-Neabsco) are
unopposed.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Issue of Illegal Immigration Is Quandary for Democrats;
Many Voters Want a Tougher Stance Than Candidates Offer

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr. and Anne E. Kornblut; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1033 words


Until Tuesday night, the Democratic presidential candidates had largely ignored
the subject of illegal immigration. The topic, Democratic strategists concluded,
was fraught with too much potential for alienating general election voters.

But after Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) struggled to answer a question
during Tuesday's debate about whether she supports a proposal to give driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants, the topic burst into the forefront of the
primary campaign and exposed a quandary for Democratic candidates, who broadly
embrace immigrant-friendly policies.

While voters are in line with Democratic positions on issues such as Iraq and
health care, immigration remains a thornier subject. Polls suggest that most
Americans want to allow illegal immigrants to stay in the country and create
ways for them to obtain citizenship, but party strategists say the voters who
care most about this issue are those angry about illegal immigration and want to
hear a tougher message.

"The reality is that this is an issue where people support what Democrats have
to say on a policy level, but Democrats do not reflect the emotional tone and
intensity of the electorate," said Mark Mellman, a Democratic strategist.

Immigration, chief Clinton strategist Mark Penn said, is emerging as "a new
wedge issue" for Republicans, who will attempt to use it to paint Democrats as
weak on border security.

When asked about New York Gov. Eliot L. Spitzer's proposal to provide driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants, Clinton initially refused to answer, but her
campaign put out a statement the next day saying she does support such as move.

The moment was more than just a stumble for the Democratic front-runner. It also
illustrated the fine line Democrats, who depend heavily on the Hispanic vote and
soft-pedal the idea of harsh penalties for people who enter the country
illegally, will have to walk on the issue.

All of the Democratic contenders have embraced some form of "comprehensive
reform" -- including a failed measure, backed by President Bush, that would have
given about 12 million illegal immigrants a path toward legal citizenship. Most
of the Republican presidential candidates opposed that legislation and have
focused their rhetoric on improving border security.

Polls showed a majority of Americans supported that legislation, but two-thirds
also thought the United States was not doing enough to stem the tide of illegal
immigration, according to an ABC News poll taken in September. Among the
Democratic presidential candidates, only Connecticut Sen. Christopher J. Dodd
(D-Conn.) broke with Clinton and opposed the driver's licenses for illegal
immigrants.

According to a CNN poll last month, 76 percent of Americans oppose giving
licenses to illegal immigrants, compared with 23 percent who favor it.

Democracy Corps, a polling group run by Democratic strategists Stan Greenberg
and James Carville, put out a memo this week addressing the challenges
immigration presents to the party.

"Voters want control of the borders and workplace and recreating an immigration
system that works and oppose driver's licenses for illegal immigrants, positions
supported by two thirds of the country," said the memo, which was released
before the debate.

But noting that many African Americans, a strongly Democratic group, oppose
creating a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, they wrote "this is a
real wedge issue that Democrats need to get right."

The complexity was underscored last month, when Democratic Rep.-elect Nikki
Tsongas, wife of the late senator and presidential candidate Paul Tsongas of
Massachusetts, barely won a special election for a Democratic-leaning
congressional seat in Massachusetts after her opponent focused on illegal
immigration, particularly Tsongas's backing of driver's licenses for illegal
immigrants.

At a September forum in Miami hosted by the Latino television network Univision,
Dodd, Clinton and Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) were all sharply questioned about
why they had voted in Congress to build a fence on the U.S.-Mexico border.

All three noted their support for broader rights for Latino immigrants, both
legal and illegal, but they said tighter border security is important.

New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, the only Hispanic in the Democratic
presidential field, called the idea of a border fence "a terrible symbol."

But unlike the Republicans, who have been very specific in how they would fight
illegal immigration, the Democrats have said little except when asked about the
issue, not addressing the most explosive elements, such as whether to build a
fence on the southern U.S. border or to give immigrants sanctuary in urban
areas.

"Any Democrat who tried to use immigration as a wedge issue would find
themselves without much of a constituency in the party," Penn said, explaining
why it has not been a hot topic in the Democratic nominating contest.

Democratic strategists remain hopeful that the GOP's anti-illegal immigration
rhetoric will hurt them among Latinos, a growing electoral group, 44 percent of
whom voted for Bush in 2004, a number Democrats hope to shrink. The Republican
contenders have skipped several forums hosted by Latino groups during the
campaign.

After Tuesday's debate, a group of Democratic strategists moved to tamp growing
fears among party candidates across the country, warning them not to duck the
issue and coaching them on how to defuse the topic in a conference aimed at next
week's off-year elections in Virginia and Arizona.

Former Clinton aide Simon Rosenberg, head of NDN, a Democratic think tank, said
that despite Clinton's answer and Spitzer's problems in New York, Democrats will
win the argument if they show they have a "big vision."

"The way this is going to be fought out is not over isolated incidents like
this, but whether there are leaders in this country who have a big vision to
solving a vexing problem," Rosenberg said. "Every Democrat in this country is
for comprehensive immigration reform. The Republicans have a different position
that doesn't poll as well: orienting themselves toward complaining instead of
solving the problem."

Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By William Thomas Cain -- Getty Images; New Mexico Gov. Bill
Richardson, the only Hispanic in the Democratic presidential field, has said
that fences along the U.S.-Mexico border send "a terrible signal."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The Issue the Democrats Dread;
__

BYLINE: E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 774 words


More significant than Hillary Clinton's supposed gaffe at the end of Tuesday's
Democratic presidential debate is the subject around which she tiptoed so
delicately: immigration. Democrats fear the issue because it could leave them
with a set of no-win political choices.

Examined on its face, Clinton's statement on New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer's
proposal to let illegal immigrants obtain driver's licenses was careful and
reasonable.

While acknowledging that current law on immigration is inadequate, she defended
Spitzer's idea by noting that if illegal immigrants are going to drive anyway,
licensing them would protect all drivers.

Yet Clinton eventually cut into the debate to amend her statement: "I just want
to add, I did not say that it should be done." Her opponents jumped all over
her. John Edwards accused her of saying "two different things in the course of
about two minutes."

In the short run, Clinton's exquisite calibration of her positions was the
issue. But her debate dance reflects a deeper worry among Democrats that
Republicans are ready to use impatience with illegal immigration to win back
voters dissatisfied with the broader status quo.

The issue is especially problematic because efforts to appease voters upset
about immigration -- including a share of the African American community --
threaten to undercut the Democrats' large and growing advantage among Latino
voters. For Republicans, the issue is both a way of changing the political
subject from Iraq, the economy and the failures of the Bush presidency and a
means of sowing discord in the Democratic coalition.

One poll finding this week that shook Democrats came in a survey conducted by
Democracy Corps, a consortium organized by party consultants Stan Greenberg, Al
Quinlan and James Carville. It asked voters to pick two from a list of seven
problems that explain "why the country is going in the wrong direction."

The survey found that among independent voters, 40 percent -- by far the largest
group -- picked this option: "Our borders have been left unprotected and illegal
immigration is growing."

By contrast, a lack of action on health care was named by only 24 percent of
independents as a core problem, and Iraq by 23 percent.

The Democracy Corps poll, along with a Pew Research Center  survey released this
week, found Democrats with substantial advantages over Republicans on a variety
of measures. But many Democrats fear that the more trouble Republicans are in,
the more they will be willing to use immigration to attempt a comeback.

This has created serious tensions among congressional Democrats. Rep. Rahm
Emanuel, the House Democratic Caucus chairman, has risked the ire of Latino
groups by warning that the party must deal with concerns about illegal
immigration.

"The debate to date has been a debate about corporate interests,  [agriculture],
the tourist industry and advocates of immigrants," he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. "This is a debate in which the rest of America is left out.

"This is a values issue: How does a superpower not have control over its border?
You have to enforce the rule of law as it relates to the border, and you have to
enforce the rule of law as it relates to benefits. Then the American people will
be open to resolving the issue as it relates to what industry needs and what
immigrant advocates need."

But Latino groups are alarmed that even benefits for legal immigrants are in
jeopardy. For example, some immigrant children and pregnant women were excluded
from help under the recently passed State Children's Health Insurance Program
expansion that Bush vetoed.

And the carefully drawn Dream Act, which focused on legalizing the status of
high school graduates who are under 30 and were brought into the country as
children by their parents, failed to secure enough votes to pass in the Senate.
This angered Latino groups that saw no reason to deny legal status to successful
men and women who are not responsible for their presence in the United States.
Such young people, said Janet MurguÃ­a, president and chief executive of the
National Council of La Raza, should not be asked to "give up their hopes and
dreams."

It's absurd that the Dream Act cannot pass, and it's foolish to shortchange
legal immigrants on health-care coverage. Yet at a moment when the electorate is
very angry, it's not surprising that some voters are channeling their discontent
through the immigration issue. It's happened before in our history.

Democrats have to manage their political problem on immigration to have a chance
at solving the problem itself. Hillary Clinton is not alone in facing this
dilemma.

postchat@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 3, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Ad to Air This Weekend;
Latino Group's Counterpoint Precedes Virginia Election

BYLINE: Cecilia Kang; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 571 words


A regional group of Latino business leaders is launching a television
advertising campaign this weekend in hopes of countering anti-illegal-immigrant
measures they fear will spread throughout Virginia.

The centerpiece is an ad that claims to show what happened when Riverside, N.J.,
passed a resolution penalizing employers who had hired illegal immigrants.
Images of empty buildings and signs of shop liquidations and closures flash
across the screen. The ad explains that Riverside rescinded its measure one year
later.

"The moral: Virginia, let's be careful what we wish for," a narrator warns.

The ads are scheduled to air throughout Virginia on CNN several times over the
weekend and on Tuesday, when the state is scheduled to hold elections.

In buying the commercial time, the business group, Ayuda Business Coalition, is
taking a decidedly different approach in its fight against recent crackdowns on
illegal immigrants than other groups, which have organized work boycotts and
demonstrations.

"We want to do this in an organized way that doesn't expose us to look like we
aren't respectable or disciplined," said Mariano Claudio, a coalition member.

Coalition members fear the recent passage of an anti-illegal-immigration
resolution in Prince William County has created momentum for state legislators
to introduce similar measures in the General Assembly when it convenes in
January. Prince William lawmakers limited some social services to illegal
immigrants and stepped up enforcement efforts against those who have been
convicted of crimes.

"Some call what happened in Prince William a success. Our longer-term goal is to
start building effective arguments for what we know is a fight coming in
Richmond," said Mauricio Vivero, executive director of District-based immigrant
advocacy group Ayuda, which is running the project.

The Ayuda Business Coalition encompasses about 100 business leaders and includes
the head of the Salvadoran American Chamber of Commerce and Carlos Castro, the
owner of Todos Market. The group said it has raised $100,000 for lobbying and
media advertising. Sosa and Associates, a Latino-owned public relations firm,
produced the TV commercial for free.

The Republican Party of Virginia has proposed a five-part plan for dealing with
the issue that includes proposals for targeting criminal activity by illegal
immigrants and for punishing businesses that hire illegal immigrants, according
to John Hager, the state's GOP chairman.

Already, some candidates have made enforcement of immigration laws a centerpiece
of their campaigns. Jackson Hunter Miller, a Republican delegate who represents
District 50, which includes parts of Prince William County, has sponsored
several bills. One would cut state and local funding to charities and other
organizations that provide services to undocumented immigrants. He vows to
sponsor additional measures that would allow the deportation of illegal
immigrants charged with crimes and penalize businesses that knowingly hire
illegal immigrants.

Miller is running against Democrat Jeanette M. Rishell, who has also has called
for action. "Because our federal government has failed in its responsibility to
address illegal immigration, the states must now find solutions that are
long-lasting and legal," Rishell said.

"Things are different this year in that Republicans and Democrats are both
running on platforms that address illegal immigration," Miller said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The Problem Is Lawbreaking

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 135 words


Regarding the Oct. 25 front-page article "Latino Immigrants Stand Their Ground":

Those who "stand their ground" just don't get it. The problem of illegal
immigration implicates all those who enter someone else's country illegally, set
up shop and then hit the streets to protest on behalf of their so-called right
to live in a country they infiltrated. If someone broke into your house,
wouldn't you call police?

Millions of potential immigrants from all over the world are waiting patiently
to come to the United States the legal way.

The American people are fed up with illegal immigration and want a solution
right away. U.S. citizens and legal residents in Prince William County are not
biased against Latinos; the problem we have is with illegal immigrants,
regardless of origin or skin color.

JOHN JACKSON

Bristow

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Virginia Votes;
And the GOP throws a Hail Mary on illegal immigration.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 542 words


ANXIOUS ABOUT an unpopular president and an electorate trending Democratic,
Northern Virginia Republicans devised a Hail Mary strategy in the summer in
hopes of averting an electoral rout. In races for state and local offices this
fall, they would focus relentlessly on illegal immigration, a festering problem
that the federal government has failed to address. And they would do so with
little regard for the real-world constraints of state and local officials to
address a problem of national scope.

The result has been an unsightly, dispiriting campaign in which GOP candidates,
with a few exceptions, have competed -- with Democrats and with each other -- to
appear tougher, rougher, meaner and more testosterone-fueled on the subject of
illegal immigrants.

The rhetorical excess has gone beyond the now commonplace demand that state
universities be purged of illegal immigrants -- this, despite a paucity of
evidence that many or any are enrolled. Now there is state Del. Jeffrey
Frederick of Prince William County, who proposes to deny all state aid to any
locality that would provide services to undocumented aliens. There is Chris A.
Royse, a candidate for supervisor in Prince William, who suggests that county
residents would beat up any Mexican officials who might come to inquire about
the well-being of immigrants in the county. And there is Faisal M. Gill, a
candidate for delegate in Prince William, who would embrace a zero-tolerance
policy for illegal immigrants; never mind that the law firm in which he is a
name partner solicits business from clients facing deportation.

These candidates and others who are talking about the problem more responsibly
are not inventing an issue from whole cloth. Many of them seek to represent
constituents legitimately worried that boardinghouses, unkempt lawns, impromptu
day-labor gatherings and crime pose a threat to their neighborhoods, schools and
property values. Many of them are understandably offended by lawbreaking and the
federal government's failure to enforce its laws. But on a local level, the
right way -- and the effective way -- to tackle those problems is by tightening
laws and beefing up code enforcement. It is not by preening and posturing and by
pretending that local government has the wherewithal to initiate the deportation
of every illegal immigrant arrested for littering; it doesn't.

In the course of this ugly crusade, many Republicans have tended to downplay the
tough issues that they might really be able to do something about over time,
including the shape and pace of growth; improvements for the region's sclerotic
transportation network; and a deteriorating fiscal situation that calls for
workable ideas. The campaign based on illegal immigration is the kind of trick
that works, if it works at all, just once. Voters who don't already know will
find out soon enough that there is a limit to what state and local officials can
do about illegal immigration and that the best and only way to deal with the
problem in a serious way is to force federal officials to tackle it
comprehensively. Once that dawns on the electorate, and particularly on Northern
Virginia Republicans, then perhaps they will get back to talking about problems
within their power to resolve.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

Protest Styles Have Presented Clash of Cultures;
Quiet Overpowers Clamorous In Supervisors' Immigration Vote

BYLINE: Nick Miroff and Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 1210 words


Opponents of Prince William County's plan to target illegal immigrants tried
marches, a boycott and a one-day strike. They organized protest caravans with
hundreds of cars and turned out ever-larger crowds for county board meetings.
When the plan went before supervisors for a final vote Oct. 16, scores of mostly
Hispanic residents lined up to deliver tearful, urgent testimony during a
12-hour public comment period.

The result?

All the supervisors -- six Republicans and two Democrats -- voted to push ahead
with the measures anyway.

The clash over illegal immigration in Prince William has placed several cultural
differences on display in recent months. But perhaps none was as stark as the
two competing political strategies that drove the debate and shaped public
perception, one rooted in a tradition of street protests, the other largely
invisible and electronic.

The strategies were deployed by the two organizations that channeled the fears
and frustrations of divided county residents to emerge with the loudest voices:
Help Save Manassas, which helped draft the county's anti-illegal immigrant
policy and applied steady pressure for its adoption, and Mexicans Without
Borders, an immigrant advocacy group that deemed the measures racist and took to
the streets to say so.

The contest was a study in political contrasts. And in the end, the quiet,
coordinated, Internet-savvy lobbying efforts of the pro-crackdown camp won over
the chants of "Â¡SÃ­ se puede!" (Yes, we can!) and the mass mobilization
techniques of their opponents.

Greg Letiecq, the conservative blogger and activist who is president of Help
Save Manassas, said his rivals' strategy didn't translate to the suburban
environs of Prince William.

"That's not the way politics is done in the United States," he said, calling the
rallies and protests by his opponents "a political engagement model from
Mexico."

Few members of Help Save Manassas were still present at 2:30 a.m. Oct. 17, when
county supervisors voted to deny certain services to illegal immigrants and ramp
up police enforcement of immigration laws. But the mostly Latino crowd that
stayed until the end fell into hushed bewilderment when the outcome was
announced. The arithmetic itself was a stunning blow: Despite a crowd of more
than 1,000 opponents of the measures and hundreds of heartfelt pleas and
desperate appeals, they didn't win a single vote.

The supervisors hadn't listened, they protested. It seemed as if officials'
minds were already made up, they said.

And for the most part, they were right.

"No one changed our opinion with their testimony," said Supervisor John D.
Jenkins (D-Neabsco). "I can be persuaded to have sympathy for people. I can't
have sympathy for anyone who breaks the law."

That view was firmly shared by every  member of the Board of Supervisors,
Jenkins said. The board's decision to defer action at a previous meeting was the
result of concerns about the county's financial situation, he said, not a sign
of uncertainty. If anyone thought the board was going to backtrack, "that was a
totally erroneous opinion," Jenkins said.

Though outnumbered at the Oct. 16 meeting, Letiecq's members had fired off
10,000 e-mails and 1,000 faxes in the lead-up to the vote -- so many that
lawmakers had to unplug their machines. County officials reported that 85 to 90
percent of the correspondence they received endorsed the crackdown.

Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R-Gainesville), who introduced the plan for the
crackdown in June, said those in favor of it were "well-organized," while those
opposed were "well-orchestrated."

Most of supporters' outreach "was done through e-mails. It proved to be
effective, in terms of sheer numbers," Stirrup said. Of opponents' effort he
said, "It seems like it was well orchestrated to turn out that large a crowd."

Following the defeat, Mexicans Without Borders coordinator Ricardo Juarez stood
by his group's tactics, saying they were chosen democratically through community
assemblies held after plans for the crackdown were announced. He rejected the
idea that marches, protests and other measures were ill-suited for Prince
William politics, even though the group's boycott and the one-day strike had
scant effect on the local economy.

"The American people express themselves by marching," he said in Spanish. "I've
seen a lot of marches in Washington, D.C., that have had nothing to do with
immigrants."

Although Letiecq and Help Save Manassas worked directly with supervisors to
develop the policies, Juarez said his group's attempts to sit with county
leaders were rebuffed. He said the board, which is all white, might have been
more sympathetic if it more accurately reflected Prince William's ethnic
diversity.

"There's nothing more we could have done," Juarez said. "If there was a failure
here, it was the authorities' failure to listen to us."

Although Mexicans Without Borders was built mostly through word-of-mouth
networks and old-fashioned handbill advertising, Letiecq said he built Help Save
Manassas on the model developed by the gun rights group Virginia Citizens
Defense League, of which he is a member.

"We get people to step up and do their own lobbying," he explained. "We educate
them, keep them informed and get them engaged with phone calls, faxes, e-mails,
and by showing up at supervisors' time."

The group has also wielded Tuesday's election to its advantage. Although the
measures were first proposed by Stirrup, board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At
Large) became the biggest public champion of the crackdown, running his
reelection campaign on the slogan "Fighting Illegal Immigration." Letiecq
described Stewart's conversion to his group's cause as "the ultimate Gandhi
moment," a galvanizing realization for the candidate.

Since then, Letiecq and Help Save Manassas have pressed to make the illegal
immigration issue a test for area candidates -- crafting voters' guides,
sponsoring candidate forums and threatening incumbent supervisors with electoral
defeat.

In contrast, the crackdown's opponents acknowledged they were hurt by a lack of
electoral clout, as far fewer are citizens and therefore eligible to vote. But
Juarez said county officials showed an "undemocratic" favoritism toward one part
of the community over another by disregarding their concerns. The supervisors
"represent the entire community, not just those who are eligible to vote," he
said.

Since the Oct. 16 meeting, Latino leaders in the region have redoubled their
efforts to increase turnout on Election Day and urge Latino candidates to run
for office. One Woodbridge resident, Aracely Panameno, has announced her
candidacy as a write-in challenger to Jenkins, who had been running unopposed.

Letiecq is looking beyond the election with a plan to continue spreading Help
Save Manassas's message and model across the commonwealth. "Once we've created
the structure, we can get people involved from across the political spectrum,"
he said.

Geography and firsthand experience have shaped views on illegal immigration,
Letiecq said, not politics. "When you have an overcrowded house with day
laborers on your street, you want something done about it," he said.

"We've gotten folks who don't normally get engaged in the political process to
get very engaged, very quickly."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

'Jobs Americans Won't Do'?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 196 words


I strongly disagree with Henry Gekonde's comments in "I'll Say 'Hola' if You'll
Say 'Hello' " asserting that "illegal immigrants are here to do many of the jobs
that Americans won't do" [Close to Home, Nov. 4].

With 18 percent of black men ages 16 to 64 earning no income in 2006, there are
many legal residents who are willing to work but have been displaced by these
interlopers. For instance, many black men would be willing to take the
construction jobs being given to illegal immigrants, but contractors do not want
to pay legal wages of about $27 an hour.

On the matter of assimilation, illegal immigrants arrive here in droves to work
for dollars instead of pesos; thus, they should learn English. And as a member
of the "get-tough crowd," I think Mr. Gekonde fails to realize that the
treatment of illegal immigrants is neither slavery nor segregation, because
illegal immigrants made a conscious decision to break the law when they came to
the United States.

Finally, when Americans continue to neglect the issue of assimilating
ex-offenders returning to society, why should anyone entertain an argument about
assimilating another country's citizens?

CARLA JENKINS

Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 6, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Border Security Falls Short In Audit;
GAO Criticizes Staffing, Training

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 693 words


U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers failed to stop roughly 1 in 10
illegal immigrants and serious drug and weapons violators from entering the
United States through airports and official land border crossings last year,
according to a new congressional review.

While screeners turned back more than 200,000 foreigners in 2006, random audits
indicate that they missed another 20,000 violators. The Government
Accountability Office, Congress's audit arm, blamed failures by officers and
supervisors along with inadequate training and staffing. A Customs and Border
Protection study this summer concluded that the agency needs 1,600 to 4,000 more
officers and agricultural specialists at the nation's air, land and sea ports,
or a boost of 7 to 25 percent, the GAO reported.

The federal government has embarked on a costly buildup to guard remote
stretches of the U.S.-Mexico border, doubling the Border Patrol ranks to 18,000
agents between 2000 and 2008, planning to add 570 miles of fencing and vehicle
barriers and 200 miles of sensors by then, and boosting spending on border
security to $9 billion last year.

But experts say as many as half of the United States' estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants entered the country not by sneaking across the border but by
evading detection at the 326 legal ports of entry or by overstaying visas.

"The more [money] that you pour into the Border Patrol and into enforcement
between ports of entry . . . the more pressure there is for people to misuse the
system that gets them through the legal ports of entry. It's important to have a
balance of resources between both," said Doris Meissner, former commissioner of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the agency that preceded Customs and
Border Protection.

At CBP's request, the GAO withheld the screening failure rate and staffing
estimate from a report made public yesterday, calling the data sensitive to law
enforcement. The Washington Post obtained the information from two sources
familiar with the full report.

In an interview, CBP Deputy Commissioner Jayson P. Ahern acknowledged staffing
shortages, but he cast doubt on the accuracy of estimates of how many violators
his agency fails to catch -- without discussing the GAO's figures in either
case. Auditors cited a CBP program that, since 1999, has compared the rate of
violations found among random travelers at ports of entry, who are selected for
more detailed inspections, to its arrest totals.

"There are a lot of compliance measurement methods out there, and none of them
are exact. . . . I'm not sure any are valid of individuals that we didn't
successfully apprehend," Ahern said.

Since the 2001 terrorist attacks, CBP has expanded screening of travelers and
deployed radiation-detection equipment and fingerprint scanners. But 400 million
people cross U.S. borders each year, and authorities have been unable to
effectively screen them without affecting border communities and trade with
Canada and Mexico. That might improve after Jan. 31, when the United States will
require travelers to present passports or a reduced  number of more secure,
machine-readable identification documents than the 8,000 types now used, Ahern
said.

In its report, the GAO cited officers' mistakes -- captured by the CBP in 2006
for a 15-minute training video -- in waving through vehicles without required
interviews and letting traffic pass as officers changed shifts and logged on to
their computers.

GAO testers conducting checks at eight sites found individual cases of officers
waving on a pedestrian without looking up from the computer, clearing another by
asking from 10 feet away if he was a U.S. citizen and leaving an inspection
booth unattended for three or four minutes.

Auditors  also found officers with morale problems, fatigue, lack of backup and
safety concerns.

"We owe the brave men and women charged with keeping terrorists, illegal drugs,
and other dangerous people and items out of the country much better training and
working conditions," Senate homeland security committee member Daniel K. Akaka
(D-Hawaii) said in a written statement. Akaka is among those who requested the
GAO probe.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Stewart Defeats Pandak In Board Chairman's Race

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 832 words


Corey A. Stewart, whose campaign was a referendum on Prince William County's
effort to crack down on illegal immigrants, won a strong mandate yesterday in
his reelection to a full four-year term as chairman of the Board of County
Supervisors.

Stewart defeated Democratic challenger Sharon E. Pandak, who conceded just
before 11 p.m.

"We are never going to stop defending our communities from the effects of
illegal immigration. Ever!" Stewart shouted, as he went from cradling his
sleeping toddler to giving an impassioned speech within a matter of seconds.

"This is a spark that has lit a fire across the commonwealth and the rest of the
nation. We are never going to stop telling the truth. This community strongly
supported this crackdown on illegal immigration and tonight laid to rest any
other idea."

Stewart (R-At Large) defeated Pandak in last year's special election to replace
Sean T. Connaughton (R), who resigned to head the U.S. Maritime Administration.

Pandak said the only reason she challenged Stewart again was because she did not
want to leave the county's fate in his hands. She said Stewart neglected the
biggest issues facing Prince William, including an anticipated budget shortfall,
to push through a crackdown on illegal immigrants that "means nothing."

Stewart, who ran in 2006 on a slow-growth platform, started his term as chairman
by passing a year-long freeze on applications for residential development. He
also pressed to keep tax bills flat by squeezing county services and trimming
staff. In June, however, illegal immigration became Stewart's signature issue,
when he championed a plan to deny some county services to illegal immigrants and
enlist police in immigration enforcement.

Although the Board of Supervisors unanimously approved a resolution last month
to curtail the services it can legally withhold -- including help for substance
abuse, homeless assistance and county programs for the elderly -- Stewart drew
the ire of some of his colleagues, who accused him of electioneering from the
dais.

"I think this is a vindication for what we've done to crack down on illegal
immigration," Stewart said at the GOP election night party at the Old Hickory
Golf Club. "This is a tough year for Republicans overall, but we bucked that
trend because we're addressing the issue that a strong majority of voters are
concerned with."

Pandak, 54, a lawyer and former county attorney, has lived in Prince William for
20 years. During the campaign, she emphasized her experience and familiarity
with the county. She had a larger campaign staff than Stewart and outraised him
throughout the campaign.

Gainesville Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr. (R), who was running for his second
term on the Board of Supervisors, easily defeated Democrat Corey R. Riley.
Stirrup billed himself as a slow-growth, anti-tax Republican. Riley, executive
director of the Greater Prince William Community Health Center, emphasized
education, human services, traffic, growth and public safety in his campaign.

Occoquan Supervisor Michael C. May (R) defeated Independent John S. Gray. May
has represented the district since January, when he won a special election to
replace Stewart. His tenure has been focused on controlling growth.

Longtime Supervisor John D. Jenkins (D-Neabsco) handily defeated Woodbridge
resident Aracely Panameno, who launched a last-minute write-in challenge.
Supervisors W.S. "Wally" Covington III (R-Brentsville), Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles)
and Maureen S. Caddigan (R-Dumfries) were reelected in unopposed races.

In other races, Frank J. Principi (D) squeezed out a close victory over Chris A.
Royse (R) in a tight contest for the Woodbridge District, which was open after
longtime supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D) retired.

Republican MichÃ¨le B. McQuigg, who represented the 51st District in the House
of Delegates for 10 years, survived a three-way race for clerk of the court,
beating former School Board Chairman Lucy S. Beauchamp and lawyer William M.
Ryland. The clerk of the court oversees about 60 employees and maintains court
and land records for Prince William, Manassas and Manassas Park. The clerk is
also responsible for marriage licenses, a family conflict resolution program and
several other duties. The position pays $131,000 annually.

Prince William Sheriff Glendell Hill easily defeated Louis Ginesi Dominguez, an
independent whose platform included giving deputies policing powers.

Only two of the School Board's eight seats were contested. Board member Julie C.
Lucas (Neabsco) fended off two challengers, Belkacem Hacene-Djaballah, who runs
an independent language school, and Manes Pierre, a former Prince William
teacher; Gilbert A. Trenum Jr. defeated D.R. "Desi" Arnaiz for the Brentsville
seat.

The leadership of the School Board changed after Beauchamp left to run for
clerk. School Board member Milton C. Johns (Brentsville) ran unopposed to take
Beauchamp's at-large seat.

Staff writers Nick Miroff, Ian Shapira and Theresa Vargas contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Corey A. Stewart,
with his mother, Bev Stewart, greets voters at the Washington Reid precinct at
Forest Park High School in Woodbridge.
IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Sharon E. Pandak, Democratic
challenger in the Prince William chairman's race, greets voters at Forest Park
High School in Woodbridge.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

MARYLAND BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 340 words

ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY

Officer Joins Immigration Fraud Force

Anne Arundel County police are permanently assigning a full-time detective to a
federal task force cracking down on counterfeit documents used by illegal
immigrants, county leaders announced yesterday.

The creation of the position is the latest move by County Executive John R.
Leopold (R) against illegal immigration. The detective assigned to the task
force will be paid by the county but will work out of a Baltimore field office
for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The task force in Baltimore is one of 17 created during the past two years by
ICE to crack down on such things as fake IDs often used for employment purposes.

Anne Arundel is the second Maryland jurisdiction to commit a full-time officer
to the task force. Baltimore County also has a full-time officer working with
the group, according to James A. Dinkins, special agent in charge of ICE's
Baltimore office.

Leopold said he decided to send over a full-time county officer in part because
he believes illegal immigrants are straining county services at a time when
money is tight.

"It's one of the hot-button issues nationally right now," Leopold said. "And
this is a legitimate part of our overall crime-fighting efforts."

-- William Wan

PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY

Death Years After Shooting a Homicide

Authorities have ruled that a man who was shot six years ago in the Bladensburg
area and died last year was the victim of a homicide, Prince George's County
police said yesterday.

William B. Peele, 27, was shot in the 4900 block of Newton Street on Oct. 12,
2001.

Peele, of Front Royal, Va., was taken to a hospital where he was treated for a
gunshot wound to the upper body and later released.

He died Nov. 23. An autopsy by the Virginia medical examiner attributed his
death to complications from his wounds from the shooting, police said.

It was unclear yesterday whether Lorenzo Cole, who was convicted of attempted
murder in the shooting and remains in prison, will face additional charges.

-- Candace Rondeaux

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In the Ballot Booths, No Fixation on Immigration

BYLINE: Amy Gardner; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1011 words


Voters across Virginia chose candidates in state and local elections yesterday
not out of anger over illegal immigration but based on party affiliation, a
preference for moderation and strong views on such key issues as residential
growth and traffic congestion.

With a few notable exceptions, the trend benefited Democrats and not those who
campaigned the loudest for tough sanctions against illegal immigrants.

Fairfax County continued its transformation into solid Democratic territory,
with as many as five legislative seats poised to fall out of Republican control.
In Loudoun County, Democrats who campaigned on a promise to slow residential
growth took over the county board. Even in Prince William County, where the
board's chairman, Corey L. Stewart (R), won easily on a vow to crack down
against illegal immigrants, the volatile issue was tempered by the victory of
state Sen. Charles J. Colgan (D-Manassas), who had been painted as soft on the
issue.

The returns provided the sharpest evidence yet that Democratic gains in recent
state elections represented more than a temporary dip in Republicans'
popularity. Yesterday's initial results showed that a more long-term structural
realignment may be occurring and that voters are increasingly drawn by
Democrats' promises to improve schools and ease traffic and away from Republican
conservatism on such issues as taxes and social policy, particularly in
fast-growing Northern Virginia.

"I did not think that immigration in and of itself would carry the day," said
Sen. Richard L. Saslaw (Fairfax), who would become majority leader under
Democratic control. "The results are proving that, while immigration is a
concern to people -- and it should be -- it is not returning the votes that they
thought that it would."

Greg Blevins, a 17-year resident of Prince William, might have been a typical
voter deciding yesterday's crucial contests. Although concerned about
enforcement of immigration law, Blevins said he voted for both Democrats and
Republicans because his main concerns also include roads and schools, for which
he is willing to pay higher taxes. "I want to see tax money spent where it is
raised," he said.

The most significant impact of yesterday's results will be in the state Senate,
where power will shift dramatically to Northern Virginia. Colgan is in line to
become chairman of the Finance Committee, gaining the power to increase spending
for Northern Virginia colleges and universities, hospitals, roads, cultural
institutions and more. Other regional lawmakers are in line to lead committees,
making them able to set the agenda on such topics as controlling development,
redrawing political district lines after the next census and recalculating
school aid formulas to benefit the region.

In the House of Delegates, Republicans will still hold a significant if smaller
majority.

State Sen. Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia Beach) said his party didn't drum up
the immigration issue out of nowhere. Candidates were forced to talk about it by
constituents who wanted the issue addressed, he said.

Republican losses yesterday, even in solidly GOP districts, he said, were more
often the result of a candidate being too conservative for the moderate
direction most voters want Virginia to take.

"If you want to take a look at who's winning in the Republican Party, it's
middle-of-the-road Republicans who have not moved too far to the right that
they're considered extremists," he said.

Stolle conceded that Democrats carried a huge advantage this election year in
part because of the role of such popular leaders as Gov. Timothy M. Kaine and
former governor Mark R. Warner, who have been touring the state pressing voters
to seek the same change in the legislature that they sought when they voted them
into office in the past two gubernatorial races.

Fairfax Board Chairman Gerald E. Connolly, who easily defeated Republican Gary
H. Baise to win a second term, said the Democratic effort in his county was
"unprecedented," punctuated yesterday morning by the effort of hundreds of
volunteers who worked across the county hanging signs, making calls and knocking
on doors.

"That's a culmination of a coordinated campaign effort that's been going on
since the spring," he said. "We had 12 full-time staffers working in Fairfax
County. We had a trailer at the back of our headquarters with 20 or 30
computers. We made 10,700 phone calls yesterday alone."

One advantage for Democrats was the poor approval ratings of President Bush and
the unpopularity of the war in Iraq. Another was the growing tide of
Democratic-leaning voters moving into fast-growing Northern Virginia and Hampton
Roads.

Robert D. Holsworth, a political science professor at Virginia Commonwealth
University, called it the "decline of the Republican brand" and credited it with
rallying Democratic activists, bringing forward credible Democratic candidates
and attracting hundreds of thousands of dollars in contributions to Democratic
campaigns.

Democratic supporters of J. Chapman Petersen, who beat state Sen. Jeannemarie
Devolites Davis, the Republican incumbent, in Fairfax, said they had long hoped
that a candidate would come along who could match her on the issues. "Chap's a
good Democrat," said voter John C. Wasley IV, a librarian who has lived in the
area most of his life. "Transportation and the environment were the big issues
for me, and Chap's on the right side of both of them."

Republicans were noticeably less organized in the final weeks of the campaign,
with fewer and smaller rallies across the state and with their top leaders,
including party chairman John H. Hager, Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell and
Lt. Gov. Bill Bolling, barely in public view in the final days.

What is still unknown is the effect of yesterday's results on 2008, another
tumultuous election year when Virginians will choose a replacement for retiring
U.S. Sen. John W. Warner (R) and when the state might even be in play in the
presidential contest. A Democratic presidential candidate hasn't gained a
majority of Virginians' votes since 1964.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 12, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

A Flip That's Flopped;
Rudy Giuliani used to get immigration. Not anymore.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 494 words


AS MAYOR of New York in the 1990s, when undocumented immigrants  were pouring
into the city, Rudolph W.  Giuliani extolled their contributions to the Big
Apple's burgeoning economy, forbade city workers from denying them social
services and benefits, bent over backward to help them navigate the path toward
citizenship, and grasped the plain fact that they would never be deported en
masse. As the  front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, Mr.
Giuliani has gradually purged such ideas from his campaign rhetoric, stressing
instead his plans to erect a "technological fence" to secure the nation's
borders, end illegal immigration, and monitor the comings and goings of "every
noncitizen" in the country by means of tamper-proof, biometrically savvy ID
cards.

He has gradually deemphasized all discussion of eventual citizenship for the 12
million illegal immigrants already in the country to such a degree that when he
mentions it at all, it's practically an afterthought, expressed obliquely. And
he whispers not a word about the fact that the nation's employers and economic
growth have come to depend on an annual influx of 500,000 or so workers, who,
owing to a political impasse in Washington, are denied any legal means of
entering the country.

Mr. Giuliani, himself the grandson of Italian immigrants, clearly understands
the value of newcomers to this country in more than boilerplate terms. Until
shortly before the immigration debate crested last spring, he spoke reasonably
of the conditions by which the undocumented population might eventually be
granted legal status -- paying a penalty, going to the back of the line, paying
back taxes, mastering English and grasping American history. Setting the
question in moral terms, he often said that fair treatment for illegal
immigrants was a matter of decency. Nowadays, when he talks of illegal
immigration, he frames it almost exclusively in terms of national security and
terrorism.

That may dovetail neatly with his strategy of appealing to Republican primary
voters and portraying himself as a security expert. But it is not a serious
policy. Hiring more border patrol agents and adopting more high-tech gadgetry
may impede the flow of immigrants over the border, but 40 percent of illegal
immigrants enter the country legally. And it is fanciful to imagine that illegal
immigration can be stamped out given the inadequacy of legal channels for
low-skilled workers to enter the country, the absence of penalties for employers
who hire them and the reality of an integrated labor market.

In the spring, Mr. Giuliani was quick to condemn the Senate bill that offered
hope that the country could forge a workable policy on immigration. One hopes
that if he becomes the Republican nominee, he will reach for broader support on
the issue by reviving the common sense and compassion he once displayed.

Additional editorials in this series can be found at
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

The Icebergs Ahead For the Democrats

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 745 words


As the Democratic presidential race finally gets down to brass tacks, two issues
are becoming paramount. But only one of them is clearly on the table.

That is the issue of illegal immigration. A very smart Democrat, a veteran of
the Clinton administration, told me that he expects it to be a key part of any
Republican campaign and that he is worried about his party's ability to respond.

I think he has good reason to worry. The failure of the Democratic Congress,
like its Republican predecessor, to enact comprehensive immigration reform,
including improved border security, has left individual states and local
communities to struggle with the problem. Some are showing a high degree of
tolerance and flexibility. Others are being more punitive. But all of them are
running into controversy.

I noticed a new Siena College Research Institute poll of registered voters in
New York. It found heavy opposition to Gov. Eliot Spitzer's proposal to permit
undocumented aliens to obtain driver's licenses; nearly two-thirds opposed the
latest version.

Moreover, the issue is part of a weakening of support for Spitzer, who now has
an almost 2-to-1 negative job rating  and, for the first time, an unfavorable
image overall. Asked if they are inclined to support him for reelection in 2010,
only 25 percent said yes, while 49 percent said they would prefer an anonymous
"someone else." It was just last year that Spitzer was elected in a landslide.
Spitzer announced yesterday that he was abandoning the driver's license idea.

That is New York, home state of both Hillary Clinton and Rudolph Giuliani. And
the driver's license question is the one that tripped up Clinton when she was
asked about it at the Philadelphia debate last month and gave answers that were
indecisive -- and nearly indecipherable.

The other candidates had more time to compose an answer, so they were spared the
embarrassment. It was the pummeling she received from Barack Obama and John
Edwards during and after that debate (and from moderator Tim Russert) that
brought her husband, former president Bill Clinton, into the campaign, with the
charge, as he put it, that "those boys have been getting tough on her lately."

The former president's intervention -- volunteered during a campaign appearance
on her behalf in South Carolina -- raised the second, and largely unspoken,
issue identified by my friend from the Clinton administration: the two-headed
campaign and the prospect of a dual presidency.

In his view, which I share, this is a prospect that will test the tolerance of
the American people far more severely than the possibility of the first female
president -- or, for that matter, the first black president.

As my friend says, "there is nothing in American constitutional or political
theory to account for the role of a former president, still energetic and active
and full of ideas, occupying the White House with the current president."

No precedent exists for such an arrangement, and no ground rules have been -- or
probably can be -- written. When Bill Clinton was president, the large policy
enterprise that was entrusted to the first lady -- health-care reform -- crashed
in ruins.

The causes were complex, and some of the burden falls on other people --
Republicans and Democrats in Congress, the interest groups and, yes, the press.
But as one who reported and wrote in great  detail and length about that whole
enterprise, I can also tell you that the awkwardness of having an unelected but
uniquely influential partner of the president in charge affected every step of
the process, from the gestation of the plan to its final demise. She was never
again asked to take on such a project.

And this was simply the confusion sown by having the first lady in charge. Put
the former president into the picture -- however "sanitized" or insulated his
role is supposed to be -- and the dimensions of the problem become even larger.

No one who has read or studied the large literature of memoirs and biographies
of the Clintons and their circle can doubt the intimacy and the mutual
dependence of their political and personal partnership.

No one can reasonably expect that partnership to end should Hillary Clinton be
elected president. But the country must decide whether it is comfortable with
such a sharing of the power and authority of the highest office in the land.

It is a difficult question for any of the Democratic rivals to raise. But it
lingers, even if unasked.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 16, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Inaction Faulted, Immigration Polls Find;
Md., Va. Residents Have Differing Views About How New Arrivals Affect Daily Life

BYLINE: Jon Cohen and Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1260 words


In Maryland and Virginia, about seven in 10 people say the federal government
has not done enough to deal with illegal immigration and one in five describe it
as "a very serious" local problem, according to two newly released Washington
Post polls.

In both states, majorities of those surveyed said recent immigrants have changed
their communities, but there is wide disagreement about their impact on daily
life. Attitudes are much harsher toward undocumented immigrants than toward
legal newcomers.

Few issues inspire a stronger reaction than illegal immigration.

"I'm not willing to do a damn thing for anybody who's in this country illegally
and is using the services and causing problems," Mary Ann Carr, 61, who works in
a Glen Burnie law office, said in a follow-up interview to the survey.

For Michelle Stallard, 37, a homemaker in Front Royal, a top concern is that
"they don't even try to follow our customs or speak English."

Dean Schaffer, 40, a software developer in Spotsylvania County, has a basic
worry: "Are there going to be jobs for everybody?"

Intense feelings about undocumented immigrants stem from not only the range of
concerns, but also the prevailing sense of federal inaction on illegal
immigration, a feeling that it has become a local problem and an underlying
ambivalence toward immigration more generally.

About a third of Marylanders said recent immigrants have made life better in
their part of the state, while 27 percent said the new arrivals have made things
worse. Virginians were evenly divided on the question.

The Virginia poll reveals additional detail behind the public's complex views
about immigration. There, seven in 10 said most recent immigrants do not do
enough to learn English or generally fit in with American culture and values.

Other concerns also drive negative opinions on illegal immigration. A third of
Virginians cited illegal immigrants' use of public services, a quarter mentioned
their breaking the law to get here, and one in eight said it was because of
their effect on the job market.

Majorities in both Maryland and Virginia want their state and local governments
to do "a lot" more to handle illegal immigration.

An estimated 12 million illegal immigrants live in the United States, including
tens of thousands among an estimated half-million immigrants in the Washington
area. And in both states, about six in 10 residents said "many" new immigrants,
those arriving in the past 10 years or so, live in their areas.

In Virginia, where immigration emerged as a top issue in last week's General
Assembly elections, almost two-thirds of respondents want local police to get
involved in immigration enforcement by checking the immigration status of people
they suspect of a crime and think may be undocumented, even if that meant fewer
illegal immigrants would cooperate with authorities.

More generally, 48 percent of Virginians think immigrants, not just illegal
immigrants, strengthen the country and 46 percent call them a burden. In
Maryland, a bare majority, 51 percent, said immigrants are good for the country,
while 42 percent said they are a burden.

The polls find the biggest differences in attitudes are within, not between, the
two states.

In Northern Virginia, 63 percent of respondents  said immigrants strengthen the
United States, while far fewer, 41 percent, of those in the rest of the state
said so. And even within Northern Virginia, where the influx of new immigrants
has been steepest, there are widely divergent views. Almost seven in 10 in
Fairfax County said immigrants help the country, but the number saying so in
Prince William County was 49 percent.

There is a similar divide in Maryland.  Half of Montgomery County residents said
new immigrants have made their community better, far more than said so in Prince
George's (32 percent) or Anne Arundel (29 percent) counties.

In both states, attitudes toward immigrants grow more positive with education
and income, and there are also deep partisan divides.

Most Democrats in Maryland and Virginia said immigrants help the country, with
Republicans much less likely to say so. Republicans in Virginia are nearly 20
percentage points more likely than Democrats to want their local police to check
suspects' immigration status, even if fewer illegal immigrants would cooperate
with investigations and report crimes.

Among white Democrats, almost six in 10 said immigrants strengthen the country,
while African Americans are evenly divided. White Democrats are also more likely
than black Democrats in both states to say new immigrants have made their
communities better places to live. Conversely, black Democrats are more likely
to want their state and local governments to pass measures to address illegal
immigration.

In Virginia, where more than half of all respondents reported having "a great
deal" or a "moderate" amount of contact with new immigrants, 13 percent called
immigration either the state's top or second-most important issue. Only 5
percent of Marylanders said the same.

Virginians in regular personal contact with recent immigrants were more likely
to cite immigration as a major concern. And in certain areas that have
experienced large influxes of immigrants in recent years, such as Prince William
County, attitudes are particularly negative.

More than eight in 10 Prince William respondents  called illegal immigration a
problem in their part of the state, including 56 percent who said it is a "very
serious" problem. And a majority said new immigrants in general lowered the
quality of life in the county.

Statewide, in surveying the top concerns about illegal immigrants, fewer than
one in 10 cited their failure to adopt American values, their criminal activity
or other issues. Just 4 percent highlighted crime as their primary concern about
illegal immigration, in part because few think new immigrants are more likely to
be involved in criminal activity than people born here.

Only a quarter of Virginians see recent immigrants as more prone to commit
crimes, while most, 63 percent, said they are no more or less likely. About one
in 10 think they are less apt to break the law.

Neither of the new polls focused on what the federal government should do about
the illegal immigrants now in the country. A new Washington Post-ABC News poll,
however, found public attitudes deeply divided on that issue as well: 51 percent
of all Americans supported giving those now here the right to live here legally
if they pay a fine and meet other requirements, and 44 percent were opposed.

In follow-up interviews with poll respondents in Maryland and Virginia, opinion
was similarly mixed, and intense.

"I have nothing against their staying, I just simply think they should be
registered," said Mary Louise Wilson, 79, a retiree in Bowie. "I don't know how
you can do it, without hurting people, but if they are illegally here, something
has to be done. . . . How do you teach your children right from wrong if you
say, okay, all these illegal people can stay?' "

Bill Tobalske, 61, a retired Air Force employee in Fairfax, had an opposing
view. "I don't think they are criminals, but they should abide by the law," he
said. "Let's forgive and forget, and start the process."

The Washington Post poll for Virginia was conducted by telephone Oct. 4 to 8
among a statewide random sample of 1,144 adults. The Washington Post poll for
Maryland was conducted Oct. 18 to 22 among a statewide sample of 1,103 randomly
selected adults. The full results from each poll have a margin of sampling error
of plus or minus three percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
November 11-17

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 614 words

Panel Takes on Illegal Immigration  Recommendations Include Trooper Enforcement


The Virginia Crime Commission called on the General Assembly to ask Gov. Timothy
M. Kaine (D) to require state troopers to help federal authorities detain and
deport illegal immigrants.

The commission's recommendation, one of a series of actions it took related to
illegal immigration, will put pressure on Kaine and the newly elected Senate
Democratic majority to take up an issue that split state lawmakers during the
fall campaign and caused local governments such as Prince William County's to
exact their own measures.

The 13-member commission recommended that state police limit their checks of
immigration status to people suspected of committing violent, drug-related or
gang-related crimes. Other recommendations include automatically denying bail to
illegal immigrants who commit crimes unless they can prove they are not flight
risks. The commission also wants the legislature to require all regions of the
state to form anti-gang task forces.

Preschool Expansion Faces Hurdles Program Results Praised, but Cost Is
Questioned

Children in Virginia's state-funded preschool have made strong gains in
literacy, and most show up ready for kindergarten, but there are concerns that
plans to expand the program do not fully address a lack of classroom space,
limited local funding and the rising costs of educating a child, according to a
state report.

The findings from the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission, an
oversight arm of the General Assembly, bolster Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) as he
prepares to ask state lawmakers for funds to make public preschool available to
17,000 more underprivileged 4-year-olds by 2012. But while the report found
significant benefits for the 12,500 children already enrolled in the program, it
cautioned that Kaine may be underestimating the cost of his proposal.

"It does appear that Virginia has a quality program. The literacy results were
good," said Robert B. Rotz, report project leader. "We're just expressing
concerns about how realistic it is to serve the number of additional children in
the time frame he's talking about."

Kaine Cuts Off Abstinence-Only Programs Governor Cites Need for Inclusive Sex
Education

Gov. Timothy M. Kaine has cut off state funding for abstinence-only sex
education programs, citing recent studies finding that teenagers should also be
taught about birth control and condoms to protect against pregnancy and sexually
transmitted diseases.

Kaine (D) submitted plans last month to close a budget shortfall in part by
eliminating a $275,000 matching grant for a federal program that provided funds
for 14 nonprofit groups that taught abstinence only.

Delacey Skinner, Kaine's communications director, said the governor believes
that effective sex education programs must include information about
contraceptives as well as abstinence.

Recount on Tap in Fairfax County Election Oleszek Trails Cuccinelli in
Unofficial Returns

Virginia's tightest General Assembly race of the year, for a state Senate seat
from Fairfax County, is headed into overtime.

Democrat Janet S. Oleszek, trailing Sen. Ken Cuccinelli II (R) by about a
quarter of a percentage point in unofficial returns, announced that she will
seek a recount of the more than 37,000 votes cast in the Nov. 6 election.
Ninety-two votes separate the two candidates.

The result in District 37 will not decide who controls the chamber. Democrats
took control of the 40-seat Senate with a 21-seat majority. But Oleszek said
that if she overcomes the whisker-thin deficit, adding to the majority, the
party will be better able to support the agenda of Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D).

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Carol Guzy -- The Washington Post; Welcome Here Salvadoran
immigrants Noel Diaz-Reyes, 19, and Ingrid Salvador, 21, study history at the
Arlington Mill Community Center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Illegal Immigrants in Md. and Va. Out-Earn U.S. Peers, Study Says;
Such Residents Are Less Likely to Have Health Insurance

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 765 words


Illegal immigrants in Maryland and Virginia make more money than illegal
immigrants nationwide, but their incomes are substantially lower than those of
native residents of those states, and they are much less likely to have health
insurance, a report says.

The study, released today by the Center for Immigration Studies, estimates that
there are 11.3 million undocumented immigrants in the country. In Maryland, the
268,000 illegal immigrants are 5 percent of the state's population; in Virginia,
they account for 3 percent of residents, with 259,000. The study used U.S.
Census Bureau data from this year.

Counting undocumented immigrants is an inexact science, and it is difficult to
determine how much change the numbers reflect. The study does not give an
estimate for the District because its immigrant population is substantially
smaller than Maryland's or Virginia's.

Although the percentage of illegal immigrants in the two states is roughly
equivalent to their share of the national population, the study highlights
disparities between undocumented immigrants in the Washington area and those
elsewhere.

The average household income for illegal immigrants is $45,748 nationally. In
Maryland, it's $58,061; in Virginia, $61,112. The findings may reflect the
greater overall wealth of the two states: The average household income for
native residents is $83,964 in Maryland and $79,524 in Virginia, compared with
$66,952 nationwide.

But Steven A. Camarota, who wrote the report for the Washington-based center,
which advocates limits on immigration, said it also suggests that a greater
share of illegal immigrants in the Washington region are people who overstayed
their entry visas rather than sneaked across the border.

"People who overstay are more likely to be foreign students and guest workers
who are more educated. People who cross the border illegally tend to be the
least educated," he said.

Nationwide, almost 59 percent of undocumented immigrants and their children (who
may be U.S.-born citizens) are living in or near poverty. The figures are 40
percent in Maryland and 44 percent in Virginia.

Those rates are high compared with those for immigrant families overall
(including legal immigrants and their children), 25 percent of whom are living
in or near poverty in Maryland, and 31 percent of whom are at those levels in
Virginia. Native adults and their children fare best, with the share in or near
the poverty level at 19 percent in Maryland and 23 percent in Virginia.

In the two states and nationally, a little more than half of illegal immigrants
and their children have no health insurance, compared with about one in 10
native adults and their children.

The study also found higher rates in the use of public assistance by households
headed by undocumented immigrants, who are ineligible for almost all benefits
but whose children or spouses might qualify for food stamps, cash assistance or
Medicaid if they are U.S.-born citizens or legal immigrants.

In Maryland and Virginia, about one in five illegal immigrant-headed households
uses some form of social service, compared with one in six in native households
in Maryland and one in seven in Virginia. (Nationwide, 40 percent of illegal
immigrant-headed households use some type of benefit, compared with 19 percent
of native households.)

The disparity between the households of illegal immigrants and native residents
is the result not of a lack of work or legal status, Camarota said. "Most
illegal aliens work, but their low education levels mean they are going to be
very poor, and this results in a significant chance their children are going to
rely on key social services," he said.

Randy Capps, a researcher at the nonpartisan Urban Institute who studies welfare
use by immigrants and their children, said illegal immigrant families appear to
be largely limiting themselves to programs such as subsidized school lunches and
Medicaid. Regarding the program most commonly associated with welfare -- cash
assistance to needy families -- fewer than 1 percent of illegal-immigrant
households nationwide and in Maryland and Virginia use the benefit, compared
with 3 percent of native households in Virginia, 5 percent of native households
in Maryland and 5 percent nationwide.

Furthermore, Capps said, studies have shown that low-income children of
immigrants are less likely to use social services than low-income children of
native parents.

"Many [immigrant] parents are afraid of being reported to immigration services,
or they might not even be aware of the program, so they don't enroll their
children," Capps said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Says Man Who Rescued Boy: 'I Never Could Have Left Him'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Nov. 28


An illegal immigrant who gave up his long walk into the United States to help a
boy whose mother was killed in a van crash in the desert said Wednesday that he
never thought of leaving the child.

"I am a father of four children. For that, I stayed," Manuel Jesus Cordova
Soberanes said in Spanish from his home in the Mexican state of Sonora. "I never
could have left him. Never."

Authorities said Cordova may have saved the life of Christopher Buztheitner, 9,
whose mother was killed when their van ran off a cliff in a remote area north of
the Mexican border on Thanksgiving Day.

The bricklayer, 26, was two days into his walk and 50 miles from Tucson when he
saw the boy, who had walked away from the crash.

In a telephone interview from his home in Magdalena de Kino, Cordova said  that
the boy had scrapes on his leg and was dressed in shorts despite the desert
cold. The boy had his dog with him and was holding a side mirror from the van.

Neither Cordova nor Christopher spoke the other's language, but the boy took the
migrant to the edge of a canyon and showed him the accident site.

Authorities said  the boy and his mother, Dawn Alice Tomko, 45, had been in the
area camping. Tomko was driving on a U.S. Forest Service road when she lost
control of the van.

"I felt frustrated and sad because I couldn't do anything for the mother,"
Cordova said.

He then built a bonfire.  Fourteen hours later, a group of hunters found the
pair and called for help. Christopher was reunited with family over the weekend.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In Debate, Romney and Giuliani Clash on Immigration Issues

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear and Dan Balz; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1423 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., Nov. 28


The Republican candidates for president engaged in a two-hour free-for-all
Wednesday night, repeatedly confronting one another directly even as they
fielded video questions submitted by Internet users in the most spirited debate
of the 2008 presidential campaign.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney and former New York mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani immediately set the tone for the combative event, using the first
question to continue a weeks-long feud they have waged on the campaign trail.
Each accused the other of ignoring laws against illegal immigration and
distorting one another's record on the issue.

Giuliani accused Romney of having a "sanctuary mansion" by employing illegal
immigrants as lawn workers and of being "holier than thou" on the issue. Romney
accused Giuliani of ignoring the laws and of welcoming illegal immigrants to New
York. "That's the wrong attitude," Romney charged in a lengthy, heated exchange.

The clash between the two was only the start of what resembled a raucous family
argument, stoked by sharp questions that touched on the most contentious issues
in the Republican contest: immigration policy, abortion, gun control, same-sex
marriage, race and the Confederate flag.

The exchanges at the debate, sponsored by CNN and YouTube, underscored the
concerns of all the leading candidates as they jockey for advantage with five
weeks remaining until the Iowa caucuses, with no contender gaining a clear edge
in the battle for the GOP nomination. It also provided a public forum for the
arguments that the candidates have been waging through news releases and stump
speeches.

Giuliani got the opening question in the form of a video submitted by a New
Yorker, who challenged him for running, as mayor, a sanctuary city for illegal
immigrants.

"The reality is, New York was not a sanctuary city," Giuliani responded, noting
areas of exception to enforcing the laws on his watch that he said were
necessary to maintain the health and safety of city residents.

Giuliani, the GOP front-runner in national polling, was put on the defensive
throughout the night as he became the target of his rivals and of several of the
questioners. He was booed by some in the audience when he said the government
has a right to impose reasonable regulations on gun ownership.

Romney, who leads in surveys testing New Hampshire and Iowa, appeared cautious
and unsure in his answers to several tough questions. He struggled to deal with
the question whether he still "looked forward to the day" when gays could serve
openly in the military. He refused to answer, saying only that "this isn't that
time."

But the clash over immigration between Giuliani and Romney quickly engulfed the
other candidates. Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) defended his support of legislation
that many Republicans say amounts to amnesty.

Former senator Fred D. Thompson accused Romney of flip-flopping on immigration
and said Giuliani had gone to court seeking to overturn a bill designed to ban
sanctuary cities. "I helped pass a bill outlawing sanctuary cities," Thompson
said. "The mayor went to court to overturn it. So, if it wasn't a sanctuary
city, I'd call that a frivolous lawsuit."

Romney and Huckabee, who are in an increasingly tight battle in Iowa, clashed
over whether children of illegal immigrants should receive college scholarships.
Romney said Huckabee was wrong to support such a measure in Arkansas, to which
Huckabee replied: "In all due respect, we are a better country than to punish
children for what their parents did."

McCain, whose campaign was damaged by his support for comprehensive immigration
legislation, promised along with others that, as president, he would secure the
borders, but he called on his rivals to tone down their rhetoric on the
hot-button issue. If he becomes president, he said, "We won't have all this
other rhetoric that unfortunately contributes nothing to the national dialogue."

Tancredo, the most outspoken opponent of illegal immigration in the Republican
field, stood quietly through most of the early minutes. "All I've heard is
people trying to out-Tancredo Tancredo," he said.

There were moments of levity, often provided by Huckabee, whose best line of the
night was in answer to a question about what Jesus would do about the death
penalty.

"Jesus was too smart to ever run for public office," Huckabee said, prompting
laughter on the stage and in the audience.

But the debate repeatedly turned serious and confrontational. One of the
toughest exchanges came over torture, pitting McCain, a prisoner of war in
Vietnam, and Romney.

A questioner asked whether any of the candidates disagreed with McCain's
contention that the practice of waterboarding constitutes torture. Romney, asked
to answer first, hedged, saying that as a candidate for president, he would not
specify which techniques he considers torture.

McCain could barely conceal his contempt, saying he was "astonished" that Romney
would think the practice might not be torture. When Romney persisted that he
would not talk specifics on the issue, McCain ripped him a second time, saying
that would mean "you would have to advocate that we withdraw from the Geneva
Conventions."

Arguing that this is a defining issue for the country, McCain concluded by
saying, "We should be able, if we want to be commander in chief of the U.S.
Armed Forces, to take a definite and positive position on, and that is, we will
never allow torture to take place in the United States of America.

Later, McCain and Paul clashed over Iraq and foreign policy, with McCain
accusing the congressman of the kind of isolationism that allowed Adolf Hitler
to come to power in the 1930s.

Giuliani got a question about a report Wednesday on Politico.com about security
expenses for mayoral trips to the Hamptons that were allocated to a number of
obscure city agencies.

Giuliani denied any wrongdoing, saying New York mayors are provided
round-the-clock security. He said he knew nothing about the expensing: "They
were handled, as far as I know, perfectly appropriately."

Democrats participated in a YouTube debate in July, but a number of GOP
candidates balked at joining a similar forum scheduled for September. They
criticized the Democratic debate as undignified, deriding one question presented
by a snowman.

Eventually, after criticism from inside the party and out, they relented, and
the debate was rescheduled for Wednesday night. The format was considerably more
freewheeling and unpredictable than most previous debates and, as with the
Democrats, candidates competed with the creativity of questioners from all over
the country who had submitted short videos on a wide range of topics.

Almost 5,000 videos were submitted, and the debate sponsors picked 34 for
candidates to respond to during the two-hour session. But moderator Anderson
Cooper of CNN had plenty of leeway to probe with follow-up questions .

The debate, which was held at the Mahaffey Theater, included all eight active
candidates for the Republican nomination. Rep. Duncan Hunter (Calif.) also
participated in the event.

The Republican debate came at a moment when the nomination battle has turned
sharply negative, particularly between Giuliani and Romney. Giuliani leads most
national polls of Republicans, while Romney leads in the two states with the
earliest contests, Iowa and New Hampshire -- although Huckabee is now in a
statistical dead heat with Romney in Iowa.

When asked whether he would accept the support of the Log Cabin Republicans, a
conservative gay organization, Huckabee joked, "You know, in my position in this
entire election, I need the support of anybody and everybody I can get."

When the topic turned to whether the next president should commit the nation to
putting a person on Mars, he ended his answer by saying, "If we do, I've got a
few suggestions, and maybe Hillary [Clinton] could be on the first rocket to
Mars."

That quip brought a rebuke from Tancredo, who told Huckabee that his willingness
to spend more on space was at the root of the problem of out-of-control spending
in Washington. "We can't afford some things, and by the way, going to Mars is
one of them."

Paul drew a question about whether he might take his grass-roots support and
turn it into an independent campaign for the White House next year. Denying any
intention to do so, Paul said he is largely a vehicle for widespread
dissatisfaction with the status quo.

"This country is in a revolution," he said. "They're sick and tired of what
they're getting. And I happen to be lucky enough to be part of it."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Joe Raedle -- Getty Images; When former Massachusetts governor Mitt
Romney, left, said Rudolph W. Giuliani had welcomed illegal immigrants to New
York City, the former mayor accused Romney of hiring illegal immigrants to work
at his house.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Sterling Areas Targeted for Stiffer Zoning Enforcement

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 639 words


The Loudoun County Board of Supervisors voted last night to step up enforcement
of anti-crowding and other zoning laws in an area where some officials have
blamed illegal immigrants for bringing blight to the neighborhood.

Under the new policy, which must be confirmed at a meeting Tuesday, county
inspectors would target homeowners in two areas of Sterling who rent out rooms
illegally, park broken-down cars on the street and otherwise violate state and
county guidelines.

Previously, such infractions were investigated only when someone complained. The
pilot program would operate for six months and include some educational
outreach. After the six months, the policy could be continued or modified.

The measures are part of a broad crackdown on illegal immigration that began
during the summer, when supervisors passed a resolution aimed at cutting off
county services to and stepping up deportations of illegal immigrants.

Last night was one of the board's last chances to make some headway. At the end
of the year, the board will change hands to a Democratic majority that might not
address the issue with the same zeal.

"We've done as much as we could in the short period we had and with the laws
that are in place today," said Lori L. Waters (R-Broad Run). "I think it is
having and will continue to have an impact on the community."

The board has struggled to fulfill its promises, confronting the legal
limitations imposed on counties by the state and federal governments and facing
the high cost of taking on federal enforcement duties.

Also yesterday, the board voted to require companies that have contracts with
the county to certify that they do not hire illegal immigrants. Parents who
enroll their children in county child-care programs also would be asked to sign
a document saying that the children are in the United States legally. This year,
Loudoun supervisors directed the sheriff's office to forge a closer relationship
with federal immigration authorities, a deal that is in negotiations.

It is impossible to know how many illegal immigrants live in Loudoun, but
officials believe an increasing number are settling there. In particular, they
said, there has been growth in Sterling Park, a diverse, working-class community
that borders Herndon and Fairfax County.

Years ago, residents said, the community was a sea of tidy lawns and
well-maintained homes. Today, many homes have fallen into disrepair. Residents
complain that some overcrowded homes appear to be illegal boardinghouses. Since
July, the county has experienced a rise in complaints of overcrowding, and
county officials say they could see a 58 percent increase in such calls over
last year.

Illegal immigrants are responsible for many of the violations because they are
not assimilated into the broader culture, said Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio
(R-Sterling), chief sponsor of Loudoun's anti-illegal immigration efforts.

"Part of the problem is these people who don't understand the culture and don't
know there's a standard," he said.

At last night's meeting, Delgaudio wanted to require the county to hire three
more inspectors. However, other supervisors opted for a less harsh approach.

Under the policy, inspectors would target homes on North Argonne Avenue and
Williamsburg Road  that are overcrowded, have trash in the yard or inoperable
cars on the street, among other violations. Penalties would range from a warning
to fines of thousands of dollars for ongoing offenses.

Such policies are common in neighborhoods with homeowners associations, or HOAs,
which often exert considerable control over the appearance of the community,
they said.

"I don't know how it's going to be received in the community," said James Burton
(I-Blue Ridge). "I don't want to get into a situation where it seems like we're
becoming some sort of police state or a super-HOA."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of Eugene A. Delgaudio; Eugene A. Delgaudio has been
active in anti-illegal immigration efforts.
IMAGE; Courtesy Of Lori L. Waters; Lori L. Waters predicted that the changes
would have an impact.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The Newest Nativists;
Rudolph Giuliani and Mitt Romney show how fast common sense can be discarded.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 523 words


THE CANDIDATES in the Republican debate Wednesday night made a great deal of
sense about immigration -- when they were discussing measures they'd implemented
as leaders forced to deal with reality. At least two of them turned to ugly
nonsense as soon as they weren't defending their own records.

Former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, for example, explained why New York
allowed illegal immigrants to receive some services when he was in charge. "If
we didn't allow the children of illegal immigrants to go to school, we would
have had 70,000 children on the streets at a time in which New York City was
going through a massive crime wave," Mr. Giuliani said. "If we didn't allow
illegals to report crimes, a lot of criminals would have gone free because
they're the ones who had the information." Reasonable.

Former  Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney in turn took umbrage at Mr.
Giuliani's suggestion that the governor should have reported illegal  immigrants
doing yard work  at his home. "Are you suggesting, Mayor, that if you have a
company that you hired who provide a service, that you now are responsible for
going out and checking the employees of that company, particularly those that
might look different or don't have an accent like yours, and ask for their
papers -- I don't think that's American, number one." Eloquent.

And  former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee explained why he wanted to offer
academic scholarships to the children of illegal immigrants if they excelled in
Arkansas schools, were drug- and alcohol-free and were seeking U.S. citizenship.
"It accomplished two things that we knew we wanted to do," Mr. Huckabee said,
"and that is, number one, bring people from illegal status to legal status. And
the second thing, we wanted people to be taxpayers, not tax-takers." That, too,
makes the kind of sense that both Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani once seemed to
understand.

Yet Mr. Romney rounded on Mr. Huckabee for supporting the scholarships, and Mr.
Giuliani rounded on Mr. Romney for his "sanctuary mansion." As governor and
mayor they had to deal with reality -- that this country benefits from immigrant
labor, that 12 million illegal  immigrants are not going to be corralled and
deported, and so on. As candidates,  Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney are content to
tell voters what they think they want to hear, a particular Romney specialty.

Only Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Mr. Huckabee  on Wednesday night declined to
join in the fantasy that fences and border guards alone can answer the nation's
immigration questions. Mr. McCain said he understands voter anger and believes
that the government must respond by sealing the border first, but he insisted
that the challenge of the 12 million undocumented migrants, and the need for
guest labor, eventually must be dealt with, too. "And we need to sit down as
Americans and recognize these are God's children as well," Mr. McCain said.

For his part, Mr. Huckabee said, "In all due respect, we are a better country
than to punish children for what their parents did." Maybe so. You wouldn't know
it from listening to the putative leaders of the Republican Party.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Judge Dismisses Suit On Illegal Immigration;
Crackdown Could Still Face Challenge

BYLINE: Jerry Markon; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 651 words


A federal judge yesterday dismissed a lawsuit challenging Prince William
County's closely watched crackdown on illegal immigration, but the ruling leaves
open the possibility that attorneys could file a similar suit with a different
set of plaintiffs, lawyers said.

U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris threw out the lawsuit because the 22
plaintiffs lacked legal standing to file it, according to a docket entry filed
in U.S. District Court in Alexandria. The judge has not issued a written
opinion. But Cacheris specified that his ruling was not based on the merits of
the case. Lawyers on both sides said that means another constitutional challenge
could be filed.

Prince William's crackdown on illegal immigration, which requires police to
check the immigration status of people in custody, has attracted national
attention and has placed the county at the forefront of a nationwide debate.

The lawsuit's plaintiffs have argued that the measure violates federal law.
Christina Guerola Sarchio, an attorney for the plaintiffs, who included four
illegal immigrants, said she was disappointed by the decision but will search
for people more directly affected by the controversial resolution passed by the
Prince William supervisors in July.

"This is a case where there's a constitutional violation waiting to happen, so
now we need to find individuals adversely affected by this resolution," Sarchio
said. "We're not treating this as a defeat in any way, nor should the county
treat it as a victory."

Corey A. Stewart, the Board of County Supervisors chairman who has championed
the immigration crackdown, yesterday said the resolution "withstood its first
test. If the best litigators in the country couldn't successfully challenge it,
I don't think anyone could."

Yet the county is prepared for further challenges once it begins enforcing the
measure, Stewart said. "We know we are going to be under such close scrutiny,"
he said. "We are going to be extra careful to be sure everyone involved with the
enforcement of the resolution is properly trained and it is enforced without any
racial profiling or other discriminatory behavior."

Although Cacheris did not explain his reasoning when he dismissed the lawsuit
from the bench during a hearing yesterday, he had earlier asked Sarchio whether
any of the plaintiffs had been stopped by police and questioned about their
immigration status since the resolution passed. Sarchio said she answered no.

Lawyers on both sides said the query appeared to indicate that the judge had
accepted a prime county argument against the lawsuit: that none of the
plaintiffs had been directly "injured" by the resolution. In court papers filed
last month, county attorneys also argued that the case should be thrown out
because the county broke no laws and is not targeting anyone for discrimination.

The July resolution outlined a policy under which officers would check the
immigration status of anyone in police custody who they had probable cause to
believe is an illegal immigrant. It also asked county employees to look for ways
to lawfully deny services to illegal immigrants.

In October, at a meeting attended by more than 1,200 people, the county board
voted unanimously to proceed with the police crackdown and to cut off certain
services to illegal immigrants who are homeless, elderly or addicted to drugs.
Under the new rules, officers are supposed to cooperate more closely with
federal immigration authorities. Police have said the measure will not be
enforced until officers are trained in determining legal status.

The lawsuit, filed by a Washington law firm and two civil rights organizations,
said the crackdown is instilling fear throughout the county and is causing
immigrants to leave Prince William. But the county has called that contention an
overreaction not merited by the language of the July resolution.

Staff writer Kristen Mack contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 3, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Rot in the Fields;
As farmworkers become scarcer, Congress dithers.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 515 words


CHECK OUT the asparagus you have for dinner, the cucumber in your salad and the
pear on your plate for dessert. Chances are none would be there if not for the
undocumented farmworkers who plant and pick most of the fruit and vegetables
grown in this country. Nonetheless, faced with a serious and growing shortage of
legal agricultural labor, Congress has followed the same playbook it has used
for the broader issue of illegal immigration: political cowardice and empty
slogans followed by inaction.

At least half, and possibly as many as 70 percent, of the 1.6 million
farmworkers in America are undocumented immigrants, and their employers are
painfully aware that there are not enough U.S.-born citizens and legal
immigrants to do all the labor-intensive work they require. Agribusiness,
farmworkers unions and enlightened lawmakers from both parties have pleaded for
solutions, only to be foiled by congressional Republicans and swing-state
Democrats who dare not support legislation that would provide undocumented
farmworkers with a path to legalization -- the dread "amnesty" of 30-second
attack ads.

By doing nothing to ensure a steady, reliable and sufficient labor force for
farms, it's a good bet that Congress will make things worse, and soon. Faced
with understandable public pressure to tighten border security, federal
authorities have added personnel, technology and fencing to make it increasingly
difficult for people to enter America illegally. Reports in the past year of
vegetables and fruit rotting in fields and orchards for lack of hands to harvest
them have failed to give Congress sufficient impetus to act. Look for the labor
shortages, and instances of rotting produce, to grow more acute next year.

As Congress dithers, fair and balanced legislation to deal with the problem
languishes. The so-called AgJobs  bill would allow some 800,000 undocumented
workers -- qualified farmhands who have been working here for several seasons --
to register, pay fines and legalize their immigration status by working in
agriculture three to five more years before they could qualify for green cards.
At the same time, it would provide a more sensible way to ensure an adequate
supply of farm labor by streamlining the current H-2A visa program for
agricultural guest workers, which is so cumbersome and unreliable that farmers
use it for only an estimated 2 percent of all farmworkers.

Having failed to pass comprehensive immigrations reform this year, Congress has
tried to deal with the problem piecemeal. The AgJobs piece is among the most
critical. The realistic alternative to it is not arrest and deportation, as
anti-immigration activists may imagine. It is the prospect of undocumented
workers leaving the farms for higher-paying, year-round jobs in the cities; of a
country increasingly unable to meet its own demand for food; and of hundreds of
thousands of workers in a vital industry doing backbreaking work without basic
employment protections. That amounts to a moral blight on America and an
indictment of a political system incapable of fixing fundamental problems.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 10, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

GOP Debate In Spanish Focuses on Immigration;
Presidential Hopefuls Appeal To Eroding Constituency

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES, Fla., Dec. 9


Contenders for the Republican presidential nomination, who have taken tough
stances on immigration issues affecting many Hispanics, were called upon Sunday
night to defend their positions in front of viewers of the nation's largest
Spanish-language television network.

The first Republican presidential forum to be conducted in Spanish took place at
a time when opinion polls show Hispanic voters moving away from the party. Some
observers have blamed anti-Hispanic rhetoric within the GOP, especially comments
regarding illegal immigration, for the disaffection.

That climate came up early in the 90-minute forum, broadcast on Univision, when
news anchors Jorge Ramos and MarÃ­a Elena Salinas asked whether the candidates
risked alienating conservatives merely by taking part in the event.

"The far greater risk is if we didn't," former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee
replied.

The first half of the forum focused on immigration-related issues -- whether
English should be the official language, whether illegal immigrants should be
offered a path to citizenship, and what each candidate might do to calm an
anti-Hispanic fervor.

The candidates professed enthusiasm for legal immigration as a source of the
nation's vitality, even as they underscored their strong objections to illegal
immigration.

Asked how to curb anti-Hispanic sentiment, Huckabee attributed it to the
"feeling that the illegals are coming in such great numbers that we can't deal
with it." Calling such attitudes "un-American," Huckabee added: "Quite frankly,
when we fix the situation and make the border secure and people are here
legally, a lot of the sentiment goes away."

At the forum, held at the University of Miami, questions were asked in Spanish
and translated for the candidates. They answered in English, and their answers
were translated into Spanish for the television audience.

Ramos and Salinas tried, with mixed success, to get  candidates to answer
directly tough questions.

Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, who  this month fired his landscaping
company because it had hired undocumented workers, sidestepped a question about
whether he reported the violation to immigration authorities.

Romney described the owner of the company as an "old friend" and added: "He did
his best, but he made a mistake." He went on to note that it is difficult for
employers to verify immigration status.

Former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was asked what he would do with
illegal immigrants already in the country, but his answer returned to the
question of border security. "You have to end illegal immigration, or certainly
get substantial control over it, and then you can move forward with sensible
resolutions to the people that are here," he said, without elaborating on what
those resolutions might include.

Throughout the forum, the candidates repeatedly professed their admiration for
the role of Hispanics in society and characterized Hispanic voters as natural
constituents of the Republican Party.

"We will be enriched by their music, their culture, their food, their language.
I know that one of the things Hispanics will do is love this country and defend
it," Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) said in answer to a question about the future of
Hispanics in the nation.

"Hispanic Americans serve in the military. We salute them for their service
right now," Romney said. "Hispanic Americans are entrepreneurs and
businesspeople. . . . Hispanic Americans are family-oriented and people of
faith."

Hispanic voters "know that marriage is between a man and a woman," former
senator Fred D. Thompson (Tenn.) said.

In the Republican field, McCain stands alone for his support of controversial
immigration legislation that would have given illegal workers a pathway to legal
residency. Other candidates deride the proposal  as "amnesty."

"We have to address this issue with compassion and love because these are human
beings," McCain said. "Of course there can't be amnesty."

By contrast, in a similar forum for Democratic candidates held here in
September, all eight participants supported changes that would allow illegal
immigrants now in the country to stay and eventually receive U.S. citizenship.
All also criticized anti-immigrant attitudes, and nearly all committed to
overhauling immigration laws in their first year in office.

Also taking part in Sunday's forum were Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) and Rep. Duncan
Hunter (Calif.). Rep. Tom Tancredo (Colo.), whose campaign has focused almost
exclusively on illegal immigration, skipped the debate.

As the Democrats and Republicans have divided over how to deal with the millions
of illegal workers in the United States, Hispanic voters have shifted their
allegiance away from Republicans, according to a recent study by the Pew
Hispanic Center.

About 57 percent of Hispanic registered voters now call themselves Democrats or
lean toward  Democrats, according to the study, and  23 percent favor
Republicans, a 34 percentage-point gap. Last year, the gap was 21 points, the
report said.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

The Split-Level Politics of Immigration

BYLINE: E. J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 623 words


Want a preview of coming attractions in next year's elections? Listen to a
television ad from Bob Latta, who is trying to hold on to a traditionally
Republican congressional district in Ohio's special election today.

"Broken borders, and Washington does nothing," the announcer intones. "Had
enough? Bob Latta wants to get tough." Latta's "plan" includes "no amnesty for
illegal immigrants," cutting off "taxpayer-subsidized welfare benefits" and, of
course, "no driver's license."

Latta is facing a strong challenge from Democrat Robin Weirauch, who is running
on trade and health care. But he is apparently not worried that the Republican
Party's increasingly punitive approach to immigration is costing the GOP
Hispanic votes. That may be because people of Hispanic origin account for only
3.8 percent of the population of Ohio's 5th District.

This contest points to an important but little-noticed disconnect between how
immigration is likely to play in the 2008 congressional elections and how it
will affect the presidential campaign. A Latino backlash against the Republicans
could hurt their nominee for president, even as a backlash against illegal
immigration could help some Republicans running for Congress.

In the presidential election, Latino votes could well tip Western states that
voted for President Bush in 2004 to the Democrats, who are enjoying a Latino
surge. A study released last week by the Pew Hispanic Center found that in 2007,
57 percent of registered voters who are Hispanic identified themselves as
Democrats, compared with 23 percent who are Republicans -- a 34-point advantage.
A year ago, the Democratic Latino advantage was just 21 points. Immigration has
a lot to do with this. Hispanics gave Democrats a 41 percent to 14 percent edge
on dealing with illegal immigration.

This shift will matter in New Mexico, where people of Hispanic origin account
for 42.6 percent of the state's population, and also in Arizona, (25.3 percent
Hispanic); Nevada (19.7 percent) and Colorado (17.1 percent).

Yet the Hispanic population is quite small in the limited number of highly
competitive districts that will determine control of the House.

Based on the results of the 2006 election, I counted 34 Democratic districts
that Republicans will probably target next year. In only four of those districts
is the Hispanic population more than 18 percent. In 19 of them, it is under 3
percent. These are the races in which Republicans are likely to use the illegal
immigration issue as Latta has. Of the 15 districts where the Democratic
incumbent received 51 percent or less last year, 11 have Hispanic populations
below than 10 percent. (All Hispanic population figures are from the
just-published Almanac of American Politics 2008.)

Typical of Democrats trying to hold on to seats won in 2006 is Rep. Heath
Shuler, who defeated GOP incumbent Charles Taylor in a western North Carolina
district where Hispanics account for just 2.6 percent of the population.

It is no accident that the featured item on Shuler's congressional Web site is
his sponsorship of the Secure America through Verification and Enforcement Act,
a proposal that Shuler says would "drastically reduce illegal immigration"
through "a strict emphasis on border security, employer verification, and
interior enforcement." No one will accuse Shuler of being "soft" on immigration.

In the end, we won't solve the immigration problem until we offer a path to
citizenship to the 12 million or so immigrants who are in the country illegally.
A compassionate approach is also the most practical approach. But in the short
run, especially in the House, the politics of the issue will be very bumpy.
Politics, for better or worse, is often about the numbers.

postchat@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Huckabee Talks Tough on Immigration

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 326 words


THE AD

Mike Huckabee: It ought to be at least as difficult to get across an
international border as it is to get on an airplane in our own home town.

Announcer: Mike Huckabee will fight to secure our borders.

Huckabee: We need to make it clear that we will say no to amnesty and no to
sanctuary cities. Our borders have to be secured -- no amnesty. And our
government has failed us. Build a border fence. Secure the border, and do it
now.

ANALYSIS

Huckabee, who has garnered favorable  media attention for a compassionate
approach to illegal immigrants, is trying to neutralize criticism that he is
"soft" on an issue that looms large in the Republican primary.

This ad, airing in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina,  does not mention
that the former Arkansas governor praised President Bush's legislation, which
provided a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. It also ignores his
proposal to grant in-state college tuition to some high-achieving students whose
parents are in the country illegally, which Huckabee recently defended by
saying: "We are a better country than to punish children for what their parents
did." Huckabee also opposed an Arkansas measure to deny public services to
illegal immigrants and said last year that some critics of such immigrants are
"driven by just sheer racism."

By focusing solely on the border-security part of the debate -- and even
omitting his own proposal for making illegal immigrants return to their home
countries and reapply for admission -- Huckabee is fudging his record and trying
to cast himself as what an on-screen graphic calls an "authentic conservative."

A second ad, released yesterday, shows the  preacher's  softer side, beginning
with a picture of Huckabee as a young boy. He talks about understanding people's
needs "when you grow up and life's a struggle" and boasts of providing health
coverage to 70,000 uninsured children.

Video of this ad can be found at www.washingtonpost.com/politics.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

The Immigration Swamp;
As the presidential campaign intensifies, so does the nativist ferocity.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A34

LENGTH: 1051 words


THE IDEA that 12 million illegal residents of the United States can be induced
to quit the country en masse within four months is absurd on its face -- a
non-starter in logistical, humanitarian, political, diplomatic, commercial and
economic terms that would leave an indelible stain on this country for years.
Yet that is the wrathful centerpiece of Mike Huckabee's "Secure America Plan,"
which the Republican presidential candidate issued the other day in the course
of his party's escalating enthusiasm for nastier-than-thou prescriptions to deal
with illegal immigrants.

Never mind that Mr. Huckabee, when he was governor of Arkansas, actually pursued
a pragmatic policy in regard to illegal aliens, urging that exemplary youngsters
be eligible for scholarships to public universities even if they were
undocumented because, as he put it, "we are a better country than to punish
children for what their parents did." Having lately surged enough in the polls
to sniff the sweet smell of success, he is not about to let experience, common
sense or simple decency get in the way of short-term electoral advantage.

Mr. Huckabee was promptly rewarded for his reversal with an endorsement from Jim
Gilchrist, founder of the Minuteman Project, a group of xenophobes who spend
their time videotaping and harassing day laborers wherever they find them. The
candidate, apparently once fazed by the Minuteman group's vigilantism, said he
had undergone a conversion and cravenly apologized for his past skepticism; Mr.
Gilchrist, for his part, said of the Huckabee immigration program: "It was a
plan I myself could have written."

It's a fair guess that this cruel campaign of immigrant-bashing will eventually
turn toxic for the Republican Party itself, whose own strategists (Karl Rove,
among others) have long grasped the growing electoral clout of Hispanics. Those
Hispanic voters, native-born or not, are anxious and angry about the
intensifying nativist zeal in political rhetoric, which many are rightly blaming
on the Republicans. In a new survey by the Pew Hispanic Center, half of all
Hispanics in America reported that the debate on immigration has had a specific
negative impact on their lives; 41 percent said that they or someone close to
them had suffered discrimination in the past  five years -- up from 31 percent
in 2002.

The new data undercut the Republicans' frequent protestations that their targets
are not legal immigrants but illegal ones. The attacks have become so venomous,
and the policy proposals so pernicious, that, predictably, they have caused
collateral damage among  Spanish-speaking and non-native-born people generally.
The anti-illegal-immigrant crowd would have us believe it honors and admires
legal immigrants; in fact, it is making America a less hospitable place for
them.

The candidates are stepping into a breach  left by the colossal failure   by
Congress in June to enact comprehensive immigration reform, which held out the
promise of calming a turbulent national debate. The bill would have tightened
security at the borders; cracked down on employers who knowingly hire
undocumented workers; established a legal mechanism for immigration for the
hundreds of thousands of workers who enter the country each year to fill
low-skill jobs; and provided a path to legal status for the  illegal immigrants
now living in America. It was a sensible response to a problem that will not be
fixed by grandiose and far-fetched schemes such as Mr. Huckabee's -- cadged from
an anti-illegal-immigrant think tank -- which goes heavy on enforcement and
security but suggests no realistic plan to address the economy's  appetite for
immigrant workers in the future, let alone those  here now.

Virtually all the presidential candidates now tip their hats to tougher
enforcement of existing laws, with the Democrats generally differentiating
themselves by saying or hinting that illegal immigrants might subsequently be
offered a shot at legalization. But in Congress, some Democrats, mostly from red
or purple states and wary of being attacked as insufficiently fierce on illegal
immigration, are also going the enforcement-only route. A bill co-sponsored by
freshman Rep. Heath Shuler, a North Carolina Democrat, which seeks to purge
undocumented immigrants from the work force, would probably drive millions of
them further underground; nonetheless, he has attracted a few dozen sponsors
from his own party.

Such measures, in addition to state and local legislation that would deny some
benefits and services to illegal immigrants, are a response to understandable
and legitimate concerns that the nation's borders are porous; that illegal
immigrants are straining government services and budgets; and that neighborhoods
are being degraded by flophouses, day laborers and immigrant gangs. But the
rhetorical excess that has accompanied the proposals, and the suggestions that
millions of people might be expelled or hounded from  the country, not only
respond to popular disquiet; they also whip it up. According to the latest FBI
statistics, from 2006, hate crimes against Hispanics had increased by more than
a third since 2003.

America has had its paroxysms of anti-immigrant fervor in the past, also
accompanied by spasms of violence and persecution. Today, as in the past, the
national atmosphere is subverting the discussion, drowning out reason. Look at
the uproar that overwhelmed New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer's sensible,
safety-minded proposal to make illegal immigrants eligible for driver's
licenses, and you will see logic defeated by posturing, political cowardice and
the poisonous diatribes of talk radio. Sen. John McCain, the Arizona Republican
who championed comprehensive reform, is now chastened by the ferocity of the
demagogues who mischaracterized it as an "amnesty"; he says he "got the message"
and will now speak only of enforcement in the near term. In such an ugly
environment, the best one can hope for is candidates who can appeal to the
nation's self-interest as well as its better instincts; who can explain that
resolving the immigration mess through a comprehensive approach is not only an
economic imperative but also the only realistic way out of a political swamp.

Other editorials in this series can be found at
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Conservatives Clash at Briefing on Pr. William Crackdown;
Federal Panelist Says Effort Was Not Based on Evidence

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 671 words


The chairman of a federal civil rights panel clashed yesterday with Prince
William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart over the recent
crackdown on illegal immigrants approved by the board.

Linda Chavez, a conservative commentator who heads a U.S. Commission on Civil
Rights panel examining whether the crackdown violates federal antidiscrimination
laws, said she believed the supervisors based their action largely on anecdotal
evidence of problems caused by illegal immigrants.

"Watching this, it seemed like there was little fact-finding prior to the
board's consideration of this resolution. You seemed to have made up your minds
[in advance]," Chavez said. "I'm talking about empirical evidence, not how
people are feeling."

Stewart (R-At Large), who led the effort to curtail some county services,
accused Chavez of having a "clear past and agenda here." Chavez withdrew her
nomination as U.S. secretary of labor in 2001 when reports surfaced that she had
employed an illegal immigrant. She said the undocumented Guatemalan woman living
in her home was not an employee, but she withdrew to avoid embarrassing
President Bush.

"We've found it difficult to quantify the problem," Stewart said of the cost and
impact of illegal immigration on the county. "But that doesn't mean it's not a
problem."

The county did look at the impact of illegal immigration on the community,
Stewart said, citing crime, residential overcrowding and increased use of
hospital emergency rooms. Chavez called that anecdotal.

Later, in an interview, Stewart called Chavez "an illegal immigrant apologist."

Chavez countered that Stewart is trying to make the debate personal. "I favor a
generous legal immigration program. Our current system is not well suited to our
economic needs. You could solve the problem tomorrow if you increase the number
of people who you allow to come to this country legally. I don't think that
makes me an apologist."

Chavez is co-chairman of the immigration subcommittee of the Virginia state
advisory committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. The panel came to
Prince William to hear from lawyers, demographers, public officials and
immigration rights advocates. Within the next year the subcommittee plans to
issue a report to the state advisory committee, which will determine whether to
make recommendations to the commission.

In October, the Prince William board unanimously approved a resolution to
curtail services it can legally withhold from illegal immigrants, including
programs for substance abuse, homelessness and older residents. Within months,
police officers will begin checking the immigration status of anyone who breaks
the law, whether for speeding or shoplifting, if they think that person is in
the country illegally.

Because the panel restricted testimony to invited officials, some people on
different sides of the issue who attended lamented not having an opportunity to
be heard.

"Citizens' input seems to be marginalized," said Donna Widawski of Haymarket,
who supports the county's crackdown. "What I saw was a predetermined agenda that
would favor those who support illegal immigrants."

Outside the county government complex where the hearing was conducted, two men
held a spray-painted banner that read: "The US Civil Rights Commission only
invited its friends, racists and oppressors, to this meeting. Hispanic voices
don't count."

Ricardo Juarez, coordinator of Mexicanos Sin Fronteras, or Mexicans Without
Borders, said, "I appreciate that the commission is here today and they are
paying attention, but they did not invite one Latino person here to testify.
Those are the people who will be affected."

Muzaffar Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute at the New York
University School of Law, addressed potential legal concerns stemming from the
county's policy.

"We don't know today whether these laws will stand tests," Chishti said. "Even
if it's lawful to do this, to ban people from certain public services, issues of
cost are playing a significant issue."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

A Tuition Deal For Immigrants?

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 570 words


Now that he has become a front-runner for the GOP presidential nomination, Mike
Huckabee is feeling the heat from other Republican candidates, who are
scrutinizing his record as governor of Arkansas for evidence of "liberal" or
"Democratic" inclinations. One leading rival, Fred D. Thompson, has accused
Huckabee of having "championed" an effort to permit illegal immigrants to
benefit from in-state tuition rates at state universities. Huckabee has denied
the charge, saying that his support was limited to a much more restrictive
scholarship program.

Huckabee's denials fly in the face of the record.

THE FACTS

During his annual State of the State address to the Arkansas legislature in
January 2005, Huckabee proposed making "any student graduating from a high
school in Arkansas" eligible for state financial aid. He said it was "terribly
unjust" to deny such aid solely on the basis of a student's immigration status,
"a status that he had no decision in and no control over."

"Huckabee plan would aid illegal aliens," the state's leading newspaper, the
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, reported the following day.

The wording of the governor's proposal was a little vague. A Democratic state
legislator, Joyce Elliott, had already proposed legislation granting in-state
tuition status to undocumented immigrants. During talks with the governor's
staff, Elliott agreed to include a scholarship provision in her bill, which
became known as House Bill 1525. She says both parts of the bill were fully
supported by Huckabee. "I never had the slightest indication that he wanted any
changes," Elliott, who no longer serves in the legislature, said. "He clearly
supported the entire bill, and I never heard anything different from them."

Huckabee defended the bill in conversations with reporters and expressed
disappointment when the measure failed to pass the Arkansas Senate by two votes.
"I don't understand the opposition to it, I just honestly don't," he said,
according to an April 14, 2005, Associated Press report. "It hurts me on a
personal as well as a policy level to think that we are still debating issues
that I kind of hoped we had put aside in the 1960s."

Asked about the measure during the Nov. 28 CNN-YouTube debate, Huckabee said his
proposal applied to students who had been in Arkansas schools from the time they
were "5 or 6 years old" and were "A-plus" students, "drug and alcohol free," and
in the process of "applying for citizenship." He implied that his support was
limited to these students, a point reiterated by his spokeswoman Kirsten Fedewa.

"He did not support in-state tuition," Fedewa said in an e-mail. "He supported
scholarships for students who qualified."

THE PINOCCHIO TEST

The distinction that Huckabee is attempting to draw is an artificial one. His
original State of the State address talked about making all Arkansas high school
graduates eligible for state financial aid, not just A-plus students applying
for citizenship. Huckabee was particularly interested in the scholarship part of
the bill. But it is untrue to claim that he did not support in-state tuition for
illegal immigrants. Three Pinocchios.

ONE PINOCCHIO: Some shading of the facts. TWO PINOCCHIOS: Significant omissions
or exaggerations. THREE PINOCCHIOS: Significant factual errors. FOUR PINOCCHIOS:
Real whoppers. THE GEPPETTO CHECK MARK: Statements and claims contain the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 23, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Va. Anti-Illegal Immigration Groups Brace for Session by Joining Forces

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1115 words


Several anti-illegal immigrant groups in Virginia are marshaling forces into a
new umbrella organization, Save the Old Dominion, that will lobby state
lawmakers to place further restrictions on those residing in the state
unlawfully.

With the General Assembly session starting Jan. 9, the illegal immigration
debate that dominated several local races this fall will travel to Richmond,
where legislators will consider proposals ranging from tougher police
enforcement to a ban on bilingual government documents. Save the Old Dominion
members said they want to coordinate their efforts to avoid a repeat of last
year's legislative letdown, when almost every illegal immigration-related
proposal failed.

"Elected officials know the electorate is looking for something to be done" this
year, said Help Save Manassas President Greg Letiecq, who is organizing Save the
Old Dominion. "If we can get this network of activists involved in engaging
their local elected officials, we'll get stuff moving."

Save the Old Dominion is composed of seven organizations with about 2,500
members, according to Letiecq, although Help Save Manassas accounts for almost
2,000 of those members. Others include Help Save Loudoun, Vienna Citizens Group,
Help Save Hampton Roads, Centreville Citizen's Coalition, Help Protect Culpeper
and Save Stafford.

The name Save the Old Dominion was chosen because another anti-illegal immigrant
umbrella group, Help Save Virginia, already exists. The emergence of the second
group reflects a minor split in the ranks of Northern Virginia's anti-illegal
immigrant activists but one that is largely the result of personality, not
policy, differences.

"Do we need another organization? I don't think so," said Phil Jones,
co-director of Help Save Virginia. Although the organizations have overlapping
policy goals and include many of the same members, Jones accused Letiecq of
starting Save the Old Dominion for "personal fame and glory." The group's debut
landed Letiecq an appearance Wednesday on CNN's "Lou Dobbs Tonight," on which he
told viewers that moneyed special interests stand in the way of reform.

"He's kind of run off in his own direction," Jones said. He said Help Save
Virginia members were upset when Letiecq recently sought member donations to
cover his personal expenses because he was dedicating more time to activism.

"A grass-roots organization isn't the proper place to solicit funds for personal
gain," Jones said. "If you're going to line your pockets as a 'salaried'
employee, there are certain rules you just have to follow."

Letiecq said he was "mystified" by Jones's criticism. "I've never been
compensated for my time," he said, adding "that's really something for the
members of Help Save Manassas to deal with."

Save the Old Dominion is the latest of several organizations related to
immigration that have arisen in the past year in the state. Several city and
county leaders have formed a Coalition on Illegal Aliens. State lawmakers and
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) created the Virginia Commission on Immigration to
study the issue and draft policy recommendations.

The initiatives Save the Old Dominion is planning to push in this year's General
Assembly are a mix of new and familiar proposals, some of which have been losers
in the past. One would give state police a greater role in immigration
enforcement through the Homeland Security Department's 287(g) program, a change
that Kaine has opposed. Others would deny public services and benefits to
illegal immigrants, prevent them from obtaining bail if held in police custody
and prohibit governments from printing public documents in languages other than
English.

"The illegal alien issue will be the number one issue this year," predicted
Belinda Dexter of Virginia Beach, chairman of Help Save Hampton Roads. Dexter
said her group remains small, so it is working closely with national
organizations such as the Federation for American Immigration Reform and
following the lead of the larger and better-organized anti-illegal immigrant
groups in Northern Virginia such as Help Save Manassas.

"They're blazing the trail," she said.

As a counterweight, several other groups will be urging lawmakers to reject the
measures put forth by Save the Old Dominion, Help Save Virginia and others.
"We're going to tell them they need to redirect anger against immigrants to the
U.S. Congress, so the law is fixed at the national level," said Mauricio Vivero,
executive director of the Ayuda Business Coalition, a group of mostly Latino
entrepreneurs based in the Washington region.

Vivero said his group will travel to Richmond next month with the newly formed
Virginia Employers for Sensible Immigration Policy, which opposes laws seeking
to punish employers who have unauthorized workers on their payrolls.

Vivero's group also opposes the use of state police in the enforcement of
federal immigration laws, saying the job is best left to detention facilities
that process criminals. "If you're in the criminal justice system, that's fine;
they need to check your status," he said. "But it's not an appropriate role for
police. We are no safer if cops are going around arresting women in minivans who
are just cleaning houses."

Since the debut of Save the Old Dominion, Letiecq said he has received at least
40 e-mails from individuals who would like to join the effort but do not have a
group in their community. Many, such as Winchester resident Eric Evans, have
little experience with politics and have never thought of themselves as
activists.

"I saw the news story on [TV], and I'm like, 'Hell yes, that's exactly what we
need,' " said Evans, who said he then rushed to his computer, looked up Save the
Old Dominion and sent a message to Letiecq.

Evans, 48, who owns a heating and air conditioning business, said he became
passionate about the issue after a landscaping company started housing its
workers next door to his family's home. "There were beer cans all over the
place, cars parked on my yard, noise and mayhem in my neighborhood," said Evans,
who counted 12 adults in the four-bedroom house. "They were making catcalls at
my 13-year-old daughter in Spanish, and I had no clue what they're saying," he
said.

City zoning inspectors eventually stepped in and evicted the men, but the
process took six months. And Evans's feelings were galvanized. He's following
Letiecq's advice and organizing a Winchester affiliate for Save the Old
Dominion.

"I remember 1968 and saw how this country was moved," he said, taking
inspiration from the civil rights movement. "The protests and the voice of the
people is what changed the outlook and the laws of this country. We need to go
at it with a democratic approach."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Romney Rips Into McCain's Senate Record

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 416 words


THE AD

John McCain, an honorable man. But is he the right Republican for the future?
McCain opposes repeal of the death tax, and voted against the Bush tax cuts
twice. McCain pushed to let every illegal immigrant stay here permanently. Even
voted to allow  illegal immigrants to collect Social Security.

And Mitt Romney? Mitt Romney cut taxes and spending as governor. He opposes
amnesty for illegal immigrants. Mitt Romney, John McCain. There is a difference.

ANALYSIS

Mitt Romney, who is also targeting Mike Huckabee for the second time, is now
running the most negative ad campaign of any presidential candidate in either
party.

Romney's description of McCain's failed immigration bill,  which was backed by
President Bush,  is so selective as to be misleading. The measure would have
allowed illegal immigrants to seek legal status only if they first returned to
their country of origin and paid a fine, and it was coupled with stricter border
enforcement -- key elements omitted by the ad. Romney had earlier called a
similar bipartisan effort "reasonable."  It is not true that McCain backed
Social Security for illegal immigrants; a Senate amendment would have allowed
payment of past benefits only after immigrants obtained legal status.

As Massachusetts governor, Romney did not win authorization for state troopers
to arrest illegal immigrants until two weeks before leaving office, and has
employed a lawn-care company that used workers with illegal status.

McCain did vote twice against Bush tax cuts in 2001 and 2003, arguing that they
should be offset by spending reductions, and did oppose permanent repeal of the
estate tax (which critics call a death tax). Romney cut taxes in his state but
also raised hundreds of fees and ended what he called corporate tax loopholes.

The Arizona senator last night launched a counterattack ad, citing one New
Hampshire newspaper editorial calling Romney a "phony" and another saying that,
unlike McCain, Romney does not tell the truth.

Romney cushions the blow in his New Hampshire ad, as in his anti-Huckabee spots
in Iowa, by saying a few nice words about his opponents before assailing their
records. In a distortion in the latest Iowa ad, he quotes Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice as calling Huckabee's foreign policy "ludicrous," when she was
responding to the former Arkansas governor's criticism that the administration
has taken a unilateral approach to international relations.

Video of this ad can be found at www.washingtonpost.com/politics.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 30, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Sheriff Seeks Leader Who Can Halt Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Krissah Williams; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1400 words


SPENCER, Iowa -- The tiny jail here has housed many a typical small-town Iowa
criminal since its bricks were laid in 1938 -- drunk drivers, drug abusers, the
occasional thief. These days, though, Sheriff Randy Krukow walks the  cell row
and behind the  bars sees a new kind of increasingly typical lawbreaker: illegal
immigrants. Six of the eight men locked up  this month were in the country
illegally, accused of identity fraud and drug dealing.

They worry Krukow, as did the 99 illegal immigrants he watched being arrested on
television  last year when  federal agents swarmed a meatpacking plant three
hours down the road.

Krukow has never entered the variety  store that advertises  "envios de dinero"
-- money transfers -- to Mexico and Central America that opened two years ago on
Grand Avenue in Spencer, where antique lampposts  are a reminder of  the town's
founding more than 100 years ago. And  across from Krukow's three-bedroom
rancher, on a block filled with flags for the local high school and ribbons for
U.S. troops, sits a worn beige rental with a sheet in  the front window that is
home to a group of Hispanic immigrants.

"When the weather's nice, they're all out there talking on their cellphones. All
10 of them," said Krukow, 57. "Don't speak a lick of English, but they are
hardworking."

Krukow understands and even sympathizes with what has brought his new neighbors.
The hog and chicken confinement plants that opened a decade ago  promise a
decent wage and a better life. But he wants illegal immigrants gone before Clay
County starts to resemble neighboring Buena Vista County, where half of the
workforce at a Tyson meat plant  is Hispanic and where one in eight residents is
an immigrant.

"We've only seen the tip of the iceberg," said Krukow, who has lived in these
parts all his life and serves as an elder at a Pentecostal church.  "It's still
'God, family, country' here. Illegal is illegal."

The sentiments of voters such as Krukow have propelled the issue of illegal
immigration to the fore of the Republican race for president in Iowa, where a
relatively small but concentrated influx of newcomers has begun to transform the
largely rural, largely white state. Immigrants are drawn  to jobs in the
agriculture industry  that Americans are not filling.

About 20,000  immigrants, most of them Hispanic, have moved to Iowa in the last
six years, and the state is now home to about 112,000 of them, according to 2006
U.S. Census figures. More than half are undocumented, according to a 2006 study
by the Pew Hispanic Center.

The Republican presidential hopefuls,  particularly front-runners Mike Huckabee
and Mitt Romney, have seized on these numbers and are telling  voters on the
stump, in TV and radio commercials, and at debates that they will do the most to
stem illegal immigration.

Like many other Republicans, Krukow is torn between Huckabee and Romney, who has
repeatedly criticized  Huckabee's support for tuition breaks for the children of
illegal immigrants while he was governor of Arkansas. Krukow agrees with Romney
that undocumented immigrants should not receive government benefits such as
tuition breaks, but he understands Huckabee's biblical argument about not
punishing children for the sins of their fathers.

The sheriff also admires the Baptist-minister-turned-politician's unabashed
Christian faith. It is the same faith that leads Krukow to services every Sunday
morning at DaySpring Assembly  of God, where the U.S. flag and a cross-bearing
Christian banner  adorn the stage. He and his wife, Suzanne, also host a Sunday
night prayer group for couples at their home.

Still, Krukow wonders whether Huckabee is too soft on immigration. The sheriff
is looking for a hard-line candidate who will wall off the border and ensure
that taxpayers   are not subsidizing illegal immigrants.

Romney has drawbacks, too.  Twice this year the company Romney hired to do
landscaping work has been caught employing undocumented immigrants, a fact that
has not escaped Krukow.

"Would he have kicked them out if he wasn't up for election?" Krukow asked.

"I'm still trying to analyze what has been spoken and what I feel could be
true," he added.

The arrival of illegal immigrants is jarring for Krukow, who can imagine no
other place than small-town Iowa to live and have a family. Only 545 immigrants
are counted among Clay's population of 16,801, but Krukow and his deputies
estimate that about 80 percent of them are illegal, based on information they
gain from traffic stops. Krukow is an optimist who prays before he worries, but
the changes in his county are nagging at him. To him and many other Iowans, the
arrival of illegal immigrants joins the demise of the family farm and the exodus
of young people from rural communities as yet another sign of the deterioration
of the life they once knew.

"We need to make sure that we have opportunities available for our kids and
grandkids," Krukow said. "We all have a stake in this. I believe that with all
my heart."

There is a "general sense of unease that is expressed here about illegal
immigration as another manifestation that rural Iowa is going downhill," said
University of Iowa sociology professor Kevin Leicht. "The immigration issue is
just kind of another sign that a way of life is slipping away."

Life was simpler when Krukow grew up in Gillett Grove, a town of 50 people a few
miles from here. He knew everyone in town, and back then not many people moved
away. In fourth grade, he met Suzanne, who laughed at his freckles and red hair.
A year after high school, they married.

His father ran a dairy farm, and Krukow rose before dawn each day to work.
After serving in the Army National Guard for a few months after high school,
Krukow tried his hand at farming corn and soybeans, before becoming a petroleum
salesman and finally a police officer. Now, even if he wanted to, Krukow  could
not make a living working the land.

The price of farmland in Clay County rose 24.7 percent last year to $4,506 an
acre, leading more family farmers to sell their land to  corporations. At the
same time, related industries, such as meatpacking, do not support a worker  the
way they once did. Wages at slaughterhouses, when adjusted for inflation, have
declined by more than 20 percent over the last 25 years to about $10 an hour,
said Neil Harl, an economics professor at Iowa State University. The locals
don't want the jobs at those wages.

"Maybe we're going soft, but we're not doing the jobs we used to," Krukow said.
"We don't want to get dirty."

So workers from Mexico and other countries have come. Iowa's economy needs the
laborers, Krukow said, and he respects the work ethic of immigrants he sees
heading to the plants before dawn.

Krukow said one immigrant told him that six months of work in Iowa would feed
the man's family in Mexico for a year.  It reminded Krukow  of the papers an
aunt recently showed him documenting his great-grandfather Julius Franz Krukow's
passage from Germany through Ellis Island in 1893. He, too, was looking for a
better life.

"It's about many different colors and many different origins," Krukow said.
"America, land of the free, home of the brave. I don't blame anyone for wanting
to come here, but at least sign the guest book so you can be taxed the same way
I'm taxed, so you can be productive like I'm productive."

Sitting in his office later that day, , the sheriff revealed a deeper worry: "If
you can get a human being into the U.S., what else is coming in?"

For the last eight years, Krukow has battled  methamphetamine labs, and he said
he is  working with federal authorities to bring a case against a local drug
ring with ties to Mexico. Ninety percent of the people he arrests are  white
males, but eight years ago that figure was closer to 100 percent. If the federal
government  does not curb illegal immigration, Krukow believes  he will see more
cases involving fraud and drugs.

"I don't have the answers," Krukow said, leaning back in his chair. And he does
not suspect that any answers will come before Thursday night.

So, he will listen to the precinct captains pitch their candidates on caucus
night and make his pick, then pray that God gives the winner  the wisdom to lead
the country. But just in case whoever becomes president fails to fix
immigration, Krukow will continue planning a project he hopes will break ground
in the next few years: a bigger county jail.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pierre Kattar -- Washingtonpost.com; Randy Krukow, sheriff of
Clay County, Iowa, visits the Hy-Vee about once a week to eat and catch up with
the locals.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

For Republicans, Contest's Hallmark Is Immigration

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1493 words


The imagery of the mailings is designed to pack a wallop: a Mexican flag
fluttering above the Stars and Stripes, the Statue of Liberty presiding over a
"Welcome Illegal Aliens" doormat, a Social Security card emblazoned with the
name "Juan Doe," a U.S. passport proclaiming, "Only one candidate has a plan to
STAMP out illegal immigration."

As Republican presidential candidates troll for votes, they have flooded
mailboxes in Iowa and New Hampshire with such loaded images. Their campaigns
have filled the airwaves, packed their Web sites and taunted their adversaries,
proclaiming their concern over porous borders and accusing opponents of
insufficient vigilance.

No issue has dominated the Republican presidential nomination fight the way
illegal immigration has. Under consistent attack for inconsistent conservatism,
former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney has turned to the issue again and
again to shore up his conservative credentials. Former New York mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani, running as the law-and-order candidate, has been forced onto the
defensive by immigration policies in his city.

And just days after he delivered a passionate defense of the humanity of
undocumented children in a Republican debate, former Arkansas governor Mike
Huckabee presented one of the most punitive immigration platforms seen in this
campaign season, rejecting legislation to provide the children of illegal
immigrants a path to citizenship if they finish high school, attend two years of
college or join the military.

Giuliani, Huckabee and Romney have all used illegal immigration to try to prove
to voters that they are the toughest and most conservative candidates in the
field. And they have used it with brutal consistency in an attempt to
marginalize Sen. John McCain (Ariz.), whose vocal support for legislation to
clamp down on border security while offering illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship helped cost him his front-runner status.

Romney, despite facing criticism about some of his own immigration policies in
Massachusetts and the fact that he was forced to dismiss a company that tended
his lawn after it was revealed that it employed illegal immigrants, has attacked
all of his rivals on the issue. A new CNN poll shows Romney with sizable
advantages over the competition on the handling of illegal immigration, with a
lead of 17 percentage points  over Huckabee on the matter.

"You have a strong field, but their strengths and weaknesses cancel each other
out. No one candidate is standing out as particularly stronger than the rest of
the field or more conservative than the rest of the field," said Ken Mehlman,
President Bush's former campaign manager, who spent years courting Latino voters
for the Republican cause. "And in that dynamic, the desire is to stand up on
every issue and say, 'I'm the strongest, and I'm the most conservative.' "

And nowhere is that more obvious than in the debate over immigration, he said.

The strategy poses a real risk. As the rhetoric and the policy proposals have
grown increasingly strident, the eventual nominee's ability to win Latino
support in swing states such as Colorado, Arizona, Nevada and New Mexico may be
coming increasingly into question.

"For Republican primary politics, this may be the most significant issue.
Clearly, there is a segment that is hotly anti-immigrant, and they're very
engaged," said Cecilia MuÃ±oz, senior vice president for public policy at the
National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Latino political organization.
"But I don't understand what these guys are going to say to my community when
it's time to run" a general-election campaign.

But if Republicans can focus the debate on law-breaking, border security and the
strain that illegal immigrants are placing on public services, the issue could
also place a wedge between many Democrats and their eventual nominee.

Less than a year after Bush resumed his push to offer the nation's 12 million
illegal immigrants a path to citizenship, most of his would-be GOP successors
could not have moved further from his platform. Even McCain now embraces
policies to clamp down on employers and to seal the border with fencing,
unmanned aerial vehicles and beefed-up border patrols. Only when the border is
certified as closed would he then consider what to do with the illegal
immigrants already in the country.

Huckabee's "Secure America" plan twins a similar crackdown with a proposal to
give all illegal immigrants 120 days to register with U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services and to leave the country. Those who register would face no
penalty if they later applied to immigrate or visit. Those who do not "will be,
when caught, barred from future reentry" for a decade, Huckabee's plan states.

Huckabee proved so mindful of the issue that he used last week's assassination
of former Pakistani prime minister Benazir Bhutto to argue for stronger border
controls, "to make sure if there's any unusual activity of Pakistanis coming
into the country."

Romney would cut federal funds to any city that refuses to comply with federal
immigration laws or to cooperate with a crackdown. Giuliani would issue all
noncitizen workers and students a single, tamper-proof biometric identity card
and create a single database to track all noncitizens in the country.

Rep. Tom Tancredo (Colo.), who joined the presidential campaign solely to pursue
his hard-line agenda on illegal immigration, was so comfortable with the
direction that his fellow GOP candidates were taking that he dropped out of the
race last month and pronounced the field "Tancredo-ized."

Since Bush's first-term push for immigration reform, the political environment
has changed dramatically, in large part because the geography of immigration has
changed. It is no longer solely a border-state concern. States such as Iowa and
New Hampshire have recently experienced  their first real influxes of immigrant
communities in decades.

"This is the most volatile issue I have measured since busing in 1972," said
Peter D. Hart, a Democratic pollster. "It's not like abortion or gay rights,
which may touch some people or offend the moral values of some. This is
something that affects everyone."

Hart compared the issue of immigration to the treaty returning to Panama the
Panama Canal, which drew a visceral response in conservative circles and turned
President Gerald R. Ford's GOP nomination campaign in 1976 from a cakewalk to a
dogfight.

"It's been like boiling water," said Al Cardenas, a former Florida Republican
Party chairman and a co-chairman of Romney's campaign in the state. "It's an
issue that was in the back of Americans' minds that needed to get fixed. It
wasn't a priority until numbers got out of hand. Then Congress took it up, put
it on the front burner, and when nothing got done, the voters turned
exasperated. Can we live with such a significant breaking of the rule of law and
not be morally outraged?"

Latino and other minority groups see racial codes in many of the words the
Republican candidates have used --  for instance, "illegals" rather than
"illegal immigrants." And hovering around the campaigns are far more strident
figures and organizations. Immigration groups were taken aback when Huckabee
accepted the endorsement of Jim Gilchrist, the founder of the border-security
Minuteman Project, calling it "providential."

Mothers Against Illegal Aliens recently posted a plea for people to bring their
own sheets and utensils to hotels and restaurants because "the person who cooked
your meal or made your bed may very well be the one who picked your fruit and
vegetables," suggesting that immigrants are spreading disease.

"We as a community are under attack," MuÃ±oz said.

Its members have pledged to fight back. A coordinated campaign, by Latino
political groups, service unions, Spanish-language television and radio stations
and print-media outlets helped entice more than 1 million immigrants to apply
for citizenship through October, said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund.
The campaign is now shifting to voter registration and education.

"I think many folks underestimate how sophisticated immigrants and immigrant
voters are," Vargas said. "People are seeing participation in the political
arena as an act of self-defense."

Officials in most of the Republican campaigns say they are not worried. Their
candidates have distinguished between their opposition to illegal immigration
and their support for legal immigration. And all voters share concerns about
security and the rule of law, said Maria Comella, a spokeswoman for the Giuliani
campaign.

But other Republicans are not as sanguine. Mehlman warned that without a
concerted effort to woo back the Latino voters the campaigns have turned off,
the GOP may be in trouble. "Is there a basic concern?" he asked. "The answer is
'yes.' "

Polling director Jon Cohen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; GOP contenders seek to show their strength and conservatism by
taking tough stands on illegal immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 4, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 599 words

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Illegal Immigrant Held In Sexual-Battery Case

Federal officials yesterday announced the arrest of an illegal immigrant charged
with sexual battery against a minor in Prince William County.

Raul Ernesto Sarmiento Sanchez, 48, a native of Honduras, had been a fugitive
since 1997 after he ignored an immigration judge's order to leave the country,
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said. Sarmiento Sanchez was
also charged with a domestic assault in 1998 and sexual battery against a child
in January 2007, officials said. On Dec. 27, he was caught hiding in a closet in
a Fairfax apartment.

Sarmiento Sanchez is believed to have entered the country in 1990, ICE
spokeswoman Pat Reilly said. He was being held in the Prince William jail
yesterday and will be tried on the local charges before facing deportation, she
said.

-- Theresa Vargas

2 Gunmen Sought In Abduction of Couple

 Prince William County police are looking for two men who abducted a Manassas
couple at gunpoint Tuesday.

The man, 44, and the woman, 45, said they returned to their Pine Street home
about 1:30 a.m. and found two men there. The men, who had handguns, ordered the
couple into a vehicle, and one of the suspects drove until the victims persuaded
them to release them in Abingdon, police said.

The couple were unharmed, police said. The suspects drove away in the couple's
black 2004 Toyota Tacoma pickup with license plates KJM-3865.

-- Theresa Vargas

LOUDOUN COUNTY

Woman Hits 3 Vehicles In Chase With Police

A Leesburg woman was arrested yesterday morning after leading authorities on a
chase and striking a sheriff's department car and two other vehicles, the
Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said.

The chase began after a deputy sheriff saw June Patrice Rosales, 20, go through
a red light in her 1998 Toyota at Route 7 and Loudoun Tech Boulevard. The deputy
signaled Rosales to stop, but she fled, hitting three cars during the chase.

Felony charges against Rosales included hit-and-run and assault on a police
officer. She was held without bond at the Loudoun County Adult Detention Center.
No serious injuries were reported.

-- Bill Brubaker

PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY

Voter Registration Deadline Is Jan. 14

The registration deadline to vote in Virginia's Feb. 12 presidential primary is
Jan. 14.

Applications are available at public libraries, the Department of Motor
Vehicles, local voter registration offices and online at the Virginia State
Board of Elections (http://www.sbe.virginia.gov).

Applications must be hand-delivered or postmarked by Jan. 14.

Those already registered at their current address do not need to re-register.
Virginians do not register by political party, which means residents can  vote
in either the Democratic or the Republican primary.

-- Kristen Mack

GOOD SAMARITAN

Rescuer Pulls Driver Of Van From Icy Pond

Fairfax County police said a man rescued a motorist whose van plunged into an
icy pond Wednesday in the Wheatfields area of Fairfax.

The van's driver, a 41-year-old Gainesville man, apparently lost control after
turning left from Walney Road onto Westfields Boulevard into oncoming traffic
about 9 p.m., police said. The van skidded down a hill and into the pond, where
it sank. Police said the rescuer, a 23-year-old Herndon man, smashed a window
with a stick and pulled out the motorist.

The men, whose names were not released, were taken to Inova Fair Oaks hospital
for treatment of hypothermia. "For someone to not think twice and jump into the
water to help someone, that's really something," police spokeswoman Lucy
Caldwell said.

-- Brigid Schulte

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

A weekly roundup of the buzz from the Sunday talk shows

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 402 words


Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney said he was wrong to have said in a
prime-time Republican debate that he had never called Sen. John McCain's
immigration plan "amnesty."

Romney said he had not seen his campaign's advertisement that uses the word to
describe the plan by the senator from Arizona. "I was simply incorrect," he said
on ABC's "This Week."

He then said that "under the normal colloquial definition," McCain's plan does
equate to amnesty, even if "not in a legal definition."

"My definition is, if illegals are able to all stay in this country and thereby
get an enormous advantage over everybody else, that is a form of amnesty,"
Romney said.

Former senator Fred D. Thompson (Tenn.) agreed. "If you get citizenship or you
[get] a pathway to citizenship and get to remain in this country because of your
illegal activity, that's amnesty to that extent," he said on CNN's "Late
Edition."

The immigration issue is considered by McCain's GOP rivals to be a potential
weakness for him in New Hampshire, where he has been quizzed closely about his
plans to address it.

In two Sunday appearances, McCain said that "we have to secure our borders
first" and added that some illegal immigrants should be sent back to their home
countries. He said others might remain, however.

McCain and former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee continued an informal alliance
against Romney.

"We have both been brutally assaulted by Governor Romney with amazingly
misleading ads that attacked and distorted and misrepresented our records,
Romney attacking me in Iowa, attacking him in New Hampshire," Huckabee said on
"Fox News Sunday."

McCain said he would support the GOP nominee, if it isn't him, and ruled out
running as an independent.

Edwards's 'Conviction Alliance': Former senator John Edwards (D-N.C.) said Sen.
Barack Obama's strategy for bringing about change in Washington is a "fantasy,"
but he acknowledged a "conviction alliance" with the senator from Illinois as
they both try to end Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential ambitions.

"We have an epic fight on our hands against these entrenched moneyed interests,"
Edwards said on ABC. Obama "talks about this in a way that suggests you sit at a
table and negotiate with drug company lobbyists and insurance company lobbyists
and oil company lobbyists, and . . . they'll negotiate their power away. . . . I
don't think it will ever happen."

By Zachary A. Goldfarb

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Mr. Romney vs. Mr. Romney;
On immigration, the candidate is tying himself into knots while proposing no
real solutions.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 509 words


MITT ROMNEY, struggling to revive his floundering candidacy and to stiff-arm a
surging Sen. John McCain in New Hampshire's Republican presidential primary, has
pushed his plan for dealing with illegal immigration to center stage.
Unfortunately, it is no plan at all. That has become clear in recent days, and
particularly at the GOP candidates' debate Saturday, when Mr. Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, contradicted himself repeatedly, as well as his own TV
advertisements, while stumbling in rhetorical figure-eights around the
immigration debate.

Mounting his attack on Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney has blanketed New Hampshire
television stations with ads deriding as "amnesty" the senator's plan to provide
an eventual pathway to legalization for America's 12 million undocumented
immigrants -- the same plan he once called "reasonable." But in the debate
Saturday, Mr. Romney twice said the McCain plan is not "technically" amnesty
because it would sock undocumented immigrants with a $5,000 penalty if they
wanted to remain in the country. He also denied that his own ads describe
McCain's program as an "amnesty," which in fact they do. He then managed to
double back on himself by asserting that "most people" would consider the McCain
plan an amnesty.

In fact, Mr. Romney's approach is name-calling masquerading as policy debate.
For as he made clear, he has not formulated a coherent approach to dealing with
a central fact of the immigration problem: the 12 million undocumented
foreigners already here. Challenging Mr. McCain on the 12 million, he asked:
"Are they sent home? Are they sent home?" But minutes later, when Mr. Romney was
asked by Charlie Gibson of ABC News whether it would really be  practical to
sweep up 12 million people and send them home, he answered with another couplet,
this one more honest: "The answer is no. The answer is no."

Almost a quarter of the  verbiage in the Republican debate Saturday was devoted
to illegal immigration, which is saying something. But for the most part, Mr.
Romney and his rivals are  really saying something about only half the problem
-- the prospective part. They tend to agree on tightening the border and
cracking down on employers. But they skirt dealing with the 12 million, and with
the economy's future demand for several hundred thousand more low-skilled
workers annually, while suggesting that those already here can be hounded,
harassed and wished away.

The facts are these: Twelve million illegal immigrants will not disappear, no
matter what measures are taken at the border; 40 percent of them entered the
country legally and overstayed their visas. Five percent of the  American
workforce is now undocumented. In certain sectors of the economy -- services,
construction and especially agriculture -- they represent an even higher
proportion of workers. Many of them are experienced and longtime employees; many
pay taxes; some are in managerial positions; some have children who were born
here and so are citizens. Screaming the word "amnesty" will not change any of
that.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 10, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Two Views of 'Illegal';
Many Undocumented Immigrants Say They Resent Being Treated Like Criminals, But
Some of Their Opponents Say There's No Gray Area When Laws Are Broken

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1241 words


To many illegal immigrants, sneaking into the United States is at worst a minor
violation -- a breach of the rules so small, and so necessary, as to be beyond
even mild reproach.

To many Americans, the act of entering the United States without permission
taints every aspect of an illegal immigrant's existence in the country. It
points to a disregard for the law, suggests that the government has abdicated
responsibility for borders and fuels outrage.

The chasm between the views has created an emotional response to one of the
newest hot-button words in the political lexicon: illegal.

Those opposed to illegal immigration insist on using the term instead of the
more anodyne "undocumented immigrant" as a litmus test of a person's commitment
to restoring control of the borders and order in the interior.

Among immigrants, the word has become a slur.

"To call us illegal is to call us criminals," said Salvadoran-born Maria Isabel
Rivas, 28, who trekked across the Arizona desert seven years ago to join her
husband in Herndon. "But how can this be a crime? Our only crime is to come here
and work like burros."

Rivas, a hotel maid who obtained a temporary work permit granted to Salvadorans
after an earthquake, said she considers herself law-abiding. When she set out
for the United States, she said, "Honestly, I didn't even think about the idea
that I was breaking the laws of this country."

Rivas said she was preoccupied with the troubles that prompted her to leave El
Salvador: the young daughter and son whom she could afford to feed only rice and
beans; the one-room adobe hut they seemed destined to share with other relatives
if Rivas remained.

If there had been a realistic way to enter the United States legally, she would
have tried. But without professional skills or relatives in the country who
could sponsor her, she said, "I had no choice."

Francisco Ramirez, 39, a friend of Rivas's who took the same route into the
United States nine years before she did, said the casualness with which he and
many of his countrymen violate U.S. immigration laws might be rooted in their
experiences during the civil war that ravaged El Salvador during the 1980s and
early 1990s.

"The laws at the time there were against human liberty," said Ramirez, a
construction worker who was granted political asylum in the United States and
lives in Herndon. "The government imprisoned me for attending a peaceful
demonstration. . . . I learned that, in general, you have to respect the law, of
course, but that when there are laws that are inhumane, it's more complicated. .
. . So I think that if you are dying of hunger, it's okay to cross the border."

But like many illegal immigrants, Ramirez cites reasons for entering illegally
that include situations that were not matters of life or death -- for instance,
to be reunited with a parent or child.

"That is also in the category of a basic necessity," said Ramirez, who was
separated from his son for more than a decade. "The pain is inexplicable. And
it's not good for the child to be without his mother or father for so long."

So total is the lack of stigma that many undocumented immigrants feel about
sneaking in that even pop culture figures such as Cesar Millan, a dog trainer
for celebrities and star of the cable show "Dog Whisperer," make no apologies
for their history.

"I am not ashamed to say it: I came to the United States illegally," wrote
Millan, who left Mexico not to escape starvation but to pursue stardom, in his
best-selling book "Cesar's Way." For "the poor and working class of Mexico,
there is no other way to come to America except illegally. It's impossible," he
wrote.

That attitude infuriates Norman Hammer, a Virginia real estate lawyer.

"People can't choose which law they want to abide by and which ones they don't,"
Hammer said. "It destroys the fabric of this country."

Hammer, who had an office in Herndon for most of the past 25 years, said he
recognizes that there might not be enough legal workers to support the nation's
economy. He said he is not opposed to increasing entrance quotas, but he does
object to offering the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants a path to
legalization.

"What message does it send? It's like, 'Oh, you broke the law? Well, we'll
forgive you.' You can't do that. It's black and white," he said. "This might
sound cruel and inhumane, but they have no rights here. They've just got no
right to be here."

Polls suggest that Americans support legal immigrants. According to a recent ABC
News poll, 26 percent of those surveyed said legal immigrants hurt the country,
compared with 54 percent who said that illegal immigrants do.

But in several polls, when asked what worries them most about illegal
immigrants, the majority of respondents cited concerns that could also be
applied to millions of poor legal Latin American immigrants in the United
States: that they use more in services than they pay in taxes, that they take
jobs from legal residents and that they don't share American culture and values.

So why the emphasis on illegal immigrants?

"It's easier for people psychologically to talk about the illegality, because
there's a good deal of ambivalence on immigration among all Americans," said
Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank
that advocates for limits on all immigration. "The thing that's easiest to
address is the illegality, so that's to some extent what you're seeing."

Take Joseph Walker, 61, of Woodbridge. He is among hundreds of Prince William
County residents who e-mailed county supervisors in support of
anti-illegal-immigration measures recently adopted there. Walker, a public
relations consultant, said his main objection to illegal immigration is "the
law-breaking aspect of it." But he also said he became concerned when he noticed
Central Americans congregating in shopping areas in Northern Virginia.

"There are places in Woodbridge where you can go and not hear a single word of
English being spoken, and that's very troubling to me, because it shows a lack
of integration in the process. . . . Sometimes it's difficult even to be
understood by the store clerks."

Walker said he thinks immigrants' lack of assimilation might be linked to their
residency status.

"Let's face it. It's not, by and large, doctors and lawyers who are sneaking
across the border," he said. "I think when people are sneaking across the
border, it seems they are more prone to stay in their own enclaves and in houses
with multiple families and any number of people and to create a Latino
subculture."

Walker said he can't know for sure how many immigrants who don't speak English
are in the country illegally.

"They could have every right to be here," he said, adding that his support for
the supervisors' resolution had no basis in ethnic or racial prejudice.

"The rationale was to identify people who are causing trouble who are in the
country illegally," he said. "I have no problem with people who came here
legally. . . . I don't have anything against multiculturalism. Everyone comes
from somewhere."

Walker said he sympathizes with illegal immigrants. "They're coming here for a
better life, and you can't blame people for doing that," he said. "At the same
time, they are breaking the law, and I don't consider it akin to a traffic
violation. I would consider it breaking and entering. . . . It is a crime to
enter this country illegally, and everything else they do is a furtherance of
that crime."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Jose Angel Fuentes,
left, dines with Francisco Ramirez at Ramirez's home in Herndon. Ramirez
emigrated illegally from El Salvador but won asylum.
IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Francisco Ramirez said he fled
El Salvador's inhumane laws, but he respects rules in general.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 14, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Filling the Void After High School;
Staff Helps Student Pursue Visa as Haven Ends With Gradution

BYLINE: Michael Alison Chandler; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1437 words


Marcelino Benitez said his best academic year was 12th grade. He got all A's and
B's, learned to install heating and air-conditioning systems in a vocational
training program and won a college scholarship. But unlike many of his
classmates, he dreaded graduation. After that ceremony, the Mexican immigrant
had a diploma from Virginia but still lacked the other documents he needed to
make his way in the United States.

"I was thinking, 'After high school, I am done. This is the end of me,' "
recalled the 2006 graduate of Dominion High School in Sterling. "Without my
Social Security card, I thought I was never going to be anybody."

For illegal immigrants, public school is a rare refuge. There's no requirement
to prove legal immigration status to enroll in school. But the transition into
the adult world can be abrupt. About 65,000 illegal immigrants graduate from
U.S. high schools every year, unable to work legally and often unable to afford
college without access to in-state tuition or government-backed financial aid,
according to the Urban Institute.

These students pose special challenges for guidance counselors and other
educators. Some have scouted out ways to help undocumented graduates pay for
college. A few have sought to open more doors for promising students, delving
into the maze of immigration law and attempting to help them legalize their
status.

Benitez, now 21, found help from two parent liaisons and a guidance counselor
who run a homework club at Dominion High for English language learners. They
contacted their congressman and hired an immigration specialist to speed up his
stalled resident visa application.

Nearly two years later, after spending about $10,000 and more than a year back
in Mexico, Benitez has a fresh visa pasted into his passport. Now he is back in
Northern Virginia, ready to pursue more skilled jobs in construction and eager
to earn a degree in psychology or theology.

"I can finally do what I want to do," he said.

The Supreme Court ruled in 1982 that undocumented students have a right to
public education. Although some officials in Northern Virginia have pushed to
limit access to services for illegal immigrants over the past year, many schools
in the region have instead worked harder to make all students feel welcome.

"This is a safe haven for kids," said Taryn Simms, one of the liaisons who
helped Benitez. "Whether they are documented or undocumented, they didn't have a
choice to come here, and they have to come to school."

The main hallway at Dominion High is lined with flags representing the more than
70 countries in which its students were born. The largest immigrant group is
from El Salvador. Others come from elsewhere in Latin America, and many recent
immigrants have settled into the townhouses and apartments of eastern Loudoun.

Like other schools in the area serving immigrant communities, Dominion High is a
hub for social services. Many schools offer computer training or English classes
to parents. They also connect families to food banks or medical care.

In the classroom, teachers hold all students to the same standards and encourage
everyone to pursue higher education. They say they are technically not allowed
to ask students about their residency status, but the subject tends to come up
in conversations about the future.

Educators often don't know what students' residency situation is "until they end
up in your office crying," said Kevin Terry, a guidance director at Dominion
High.

Among those facing barriers are some of the highest achievers. A recent graduate
from Osbourne Park High School in Manassas finished her senior year among the
top students in her class and received a prestigious award from the faculty.

Her college applications would have shown that she was a member of the National
Honor Society, the French Honor Society and student government, but she delayed
her college plans because she lacks a current visa.

Teachers at the school are trying to help the 18-year-old Salvadoran get into
college by contacting people at local universities and researching scholarships.
"We have even investigated getting her name attached to some sort of bill in
Congress," said Anita Al-Haj, director of the English for Speakers of Other
Languages program. "We are trying everything in our power to help her."

ESOL teachers in Prince William County are developing a standard curriculum for
their 13,000 students to explain clearly the path to graduation and the options
afterward for documented and undocumented students. They plan to include a unit
on immigration law.

Such systemwide programs targeting undocumented students are unusual, however.
Most efforts come from individual teachers or counselors hard-wired to help
students succeed, as they encounter individual children in need.

At Annandale High School in Fairfax County, history teacher Eleanor Shumaker,
now retired, became the legal guardian of a Somalian student in the late 1990s
who came to the United States illegally and alone and had become homeless. More
recently, a counselor at Yorktown High School in Arlington County, who declined
to give her name, sheltered an immigrant student in a spare bedroom so she could
graduate from high school.

Benitez came to the United States with a friend when he was 15, hoping to join
his mother in Loudoun. After walking across the desert for a day and a night, he
was picked up in a small truck packed with other border-crossers and driven to
Phoenix. "They just lay you down like cigarettes, one after another one," he
recalled. From there, he made his way to Northern Virginia.

He started ninth grade a few weeks later. He recalled long days trying to
comprehend rapid-fire lessons and late nights working at Wendy's, where he
earned money to send to younger siblings in Mexico and to help his mother pay
medical bills. He applied for a resident visa early on as a relative of his
stepfather, a U.S. citizen.

At Dominion High, in 10th grade, he joined the homework club and got to know
Simms and Terry, along with Duke Butkovich, another liaison hired by the school
system to work with parents or families to help students succeed. They reviewed
his assignments slowly with him to help him understand.

They saw how hard he was working and tried to help him in other ways. They
invited his mother and stepfather to visit the school, offered him free school
supplies and encouraged him to enroll in the vocational program.

At first he was wary of their attention. When one of them would sit down at the
lunch table next to him, Butkovich recalled, he would say, "Why do you always
pick on the Hispanic table? Why don't you pick on the white people?"

They didn't relent. They started following him. He often saw them cheering at
his soccer games or waving to him in the hallway.

Over time, he trusted them more and was grateful for their offers of help. His
mother and stepfather moved to Manassas in his junior year, and he rented a room
in Sterling so he could finish the vocational training. Simms and Butkovich
helped him move, and the school's vice principals and some teachers chipped in
to furnish his rented room, buying him a bed and sheets and towels.

Butkovich and Simms met with U.S. Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) and asked him to
look into the student's immigration case. Wolf's staff discovered that his visa
application had been filed improperly, causing a long delay. The Dominion staff
hired an immigration specialist who helped him refile the forms and added a
letter detailing his accomplishments.

A month after graduation, Benitez had an interview at the U.S. consulate in
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico.

Butkovich raised money from church friends, relatives, even a neighborhood bunco
group to pay for a round-trip plane ticket and expenses while Benitez was in
Mexico. What they thought would be a one-week visit took 14 months.

Benitez stayed with his younger siblings and grandparents south of Mexico City,
working on a family farm and on odd construction jobs. Throughout the year,
Butkovich or her friends or relatives sent care packages and money.

In November, Benitez received word that his application had been approved and he
could return to the United States as a legal resident.

"We're all so excited we can't stand it," Butkovich said when she heard the
news.

Shortly before Christmas, Benitez flew to Dulles International Airport.

When he stepped off the plane, he was greeted by his Dominion High friends, who
were holding signs saying "Welcome Home" and "This Way" and carrying a winter
coat for him. They marveled at how tall he had grown. He smiled and flashed his
new visa, with an inky stamp that read "Admitted."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Marcelino Benitez,
21, said he dreaded his 2006 graduation from Dominion High School in Sterling.
Many illegal immigrants find life after high school difficult without
documentation.
IMAGE; Photos By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Marcelino Benitez,
second from right, is met at Dulles International Airport by, from left, Taryn
Simms and Duke Butkovich of Dominion High School, Butkovich's daughter, Jessy
Butkovich, and Benitez's friend, Eric Montero-Arnez.
IMAGE; Benitez is hugged by Duke Butkovich at Dulles Airport as he returns from
Mexico to the United States after a 14-month wait for a visa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 14, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Who Among Us Has Never Broken the Law?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 423 words


A Jan. 10 Metro section headline said it all: "Driver Fees, Illegal Immigration
Top Agenda as Legislators Convene."

Virginians don't think it's fair to have to pay large fines for illegal,
dangerous driving, but immigrants in the United States without proper
documentation are not worthy of being here because they are "breaking the law."
I'd love to see the correlation for people holding both opinions.

As the daughter of immigrants from Poland, I've met too many people who knew
that their ancestors bought other people's names, falsely claimed they were
relatives of citizens, "married" people they didn't know or obtained fraudulent
letters from potential employers stating that they were the only ones who could
do particular jobs.

The iconic immigration film, Elia Kazan's "America, America," was about Kazan's
uncle who came to the United States and sent for the others in his family. He
took the identity of someone who would have been here legally but died on the
ship.

The hypocrisy goes on.

ARLENE HALFON

Washington

Â·

Unless we all are prepared to wear the word "illegal" around our necks, we need
to drop it when referring to undocumented immigrants ["Two Views of Illegal,"
Metro, Jan. 10]. Most of us are illegal in some way, having chosen at times to
ignore certain laws. With the exception of my mother and a few others, all of us
over the age of 16 have willfully, if only occasionally, flouted an inconvenient
law or two. And we didn't even do it to escape oppression, poverty, death squads
or starvation.

I would like to ask this question of those who believe that all undocumented
immigrants are criminals, because, in the words of lawyer Norman Hammer, "people
can't choose which laws they want to abide by and which ones they don't": How
many of us can honestly say we have clean slates -- that we never tried
cigarettes or alcohol before we were old enough to be legal, for instance?
Choosing which laws to bend or break is a time-honored American tradition.

Last I checked, it hasn't exactly destroyed the "fabric of this country."

CRAIG W. CULP

Gaithersburg

Â·

I take exception to The Post's claim that there are two views of illegal.

Illegal is illegal, despite all the sob stories about the supposed plight of
illegal immigrants who are overrunning this country and expect that we should
speak their language and offer them the benefits of citizenship.

The only two views of the immigration situation are "legal" and "illegal." The
whys and wherefores of illegal immigrants shouldn't enter the process.

JOANNE E. DUMENE

Alexandria

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Bill on Migrants Splits a Town With Few;
What Some Called a Preventive Measure Seemed to Others an Effort to Fan Biases

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1361 words


TANEYTOWN, Md. -- There are fewer than two dozen foreign-born residents in this
historic but ailing town of 6,700 near the Pennsylvania border, including a
Mexican landscaper and a Chinese family that owns a restaurant on Main Street.
There are no store signs in Spanish, no crowded boarding houses, no men looking
for jobs on the corners.

Yet this month, the bitter regional and national debate over illegal immigration
has reached remote Taneytown. It has divided local officials, drawn activists
and TV crews to town meetings and exposed deep emotional fault lines in a small,
largely white farming community that feels both afraid it might be overwhelmed
by poor Hispanics who are in the country illegally and ashamed it might be
tarred as racist and intolerant.

The focus of the fast-sharpening dispute has been a City Council resolution,
which was narrowly defeated Monday night, that declared: "The City of Taneytown
is not a sanctuary city for illegal aliens." It warned that the town "does not
welcome individuals who are in the United States illegally," suggesting they
would harm the quality of life. It would have directed local officials to assist
residents in supporting the enforcement of federal immigration laws.

Paul Chamberlain, the council member sponsoring the resolution, acknowledges
that Taneytown has no problem with illegal immigrants. But he sees an apocalypse
coming: the gangs, the trash, the crowding that communities in Maryland,
Pennsylvania and Virginia have attributed to an influx of impoverished, often
undocumented Mexicans and Central Americans. And he hopes that putting up a
virtual keep-out sign will steer them away from the corner of Carroll County.

"This is a preventive measure. Other places are passing laws against illegals,
so where will they go? To the places that welcome them," said Chamberlain, a
dapper man who sells recreational vehicles. "I am not trying to spew hatred
against anyone, but I will not cower just because someone calls me a bigot. We
have got to send a clear message that people who break the law are not welcome
here."

The resolution's defeat was partly the result of strong opposition from Mayor
James McCarron, who called illegal immigration a federal problem. A majority of
council members agreed with him, voting 3 to 2 against the resolution.

In the January issue of the Taneytown Newsletter, McCarron called the resolution
"an attempt to inflame and divide the city."

"Taneytown is not a sanctuary city for illegal aliens, and it has no intention
of ever becoming one," the mayor said in exasperation. "It is not up to us to
fix the problem of illegal immigration, but I assure you that anyone who breaks
the law here, whether robbing a bank or being an illegal alien, will be
prosecuted."

Nevertheless, the proposal has struck a raw nerve in the region of family farms
and country traditions, where old barns slowly sink into the rolling hills and
modern development has been even slower to replace them. Union troops famously
stopped here for a few nights in 1863 on their way north to the decisive battle
at Gettysburg. Now Taneytowners worry that their struggling community will
become a magnet for unfamiliar forces of change.

On Wednesday night, at a crowded public meeting in the volunteer fire hall to
discuss Chamberlain's resolution, the room seethed with suppressed emotion, and
the debate barely remained civil, with jeers and cheers interrupting many
speakers.

A few residents called for compassion toward refugees or said they were
embarrassed to see officials pandering to ugly emotions. Gail Wilson, a
resident, said Taneytown had worked hard to overcome the historic taint of
racism and become known as a welcoming community. "This resolution could bring
back the hostility we fought to get rid of," she said.

The sole immigrant who spoke, a Mexican landscaper and legal resident named
Rafael Zamora, said he had moved from Germantown to "build a better life for my
family." Apologizing for his thick accent, he asked the town to give people like
him a chance, and he received a smattering of polite applause.

But supporters of Chamberlain, including two activists from Montgomery County,
were wildly applauded when they implored the council to pass the resolution,
saying it would send an important message to Maryland and the nation.

"If the federal government can't or won't fix the problem, we in small towns
must do it. Maryland is already a sanctuary state," said Pamela Robbins, a
hospital worker who spoke about a patient, in for an expensive test, who had no
identification or insurance and could not speak English. "Sometimes you have to
step back from saving the world and save the little piece that belongs to you."

Away from the heat and glare, residents expressed more complicated, often
contradictory opinions. Many said they were worried about reports of foreigners
flooding larger towns in the region: the Hispanic laborers who came to pick
apples in Pennsylvania and stayed, the Muslim group that is trying to buy a farm
in nearby Walkersville and turn it into a retreat. Yet no one reported having
any negative encounters with immigrants, and a handful of employers praised them
as hardworking.

"I can get along with just about anybody," said Wilson Speak, 64, a veteran
driver and warehouse worker at a Southern States feed and grain depot. "We don't
see a whole lot of migrants around here, but my feeling is as long as they're
legal, pay their taxes and abide by the laws, I have no problem with it."

Kevin Few, 42, a construction worker, said Hispanic migrants are driving down
wages in Maryland and making it hard for people like him to find work.
"Personally, 99 percent of them seem nice, clean and hardworking," he said. "But
they come here, do our work for nothing, cram into apartments and buy new cars,
while the rest of us are struggling to make ends meet. It's not fair."

At the local McDonald's, retirees meeting for coffee said they were not aware of
Chamberlain's resolution but were nervous that illegal immigrants would come to
the area. One woman, who said she was afraid to be identified, explained,
lowering her voice: "If I tell you my name, the illegals might look up my
address and come after me. They've already broken the laws, so what do they
care?"

Across the room, two Mexican ranch workers sat unnoticed in a corner, eating
burgers and fries. They said that they earned $25 an hour cleaning stables in
the countryside and that the local people seemed friendly enough. One, Jose de
la Luz, 27, offered an opinion about how to revitalize the area's economy.

"This place is nice, but it has no life," he said in Spanish. "What it needs is
more Hispanics. You go to other towns in Maryland, you see them everywhere,
shopping in Wal-Mart, working two jobs, buying stuff for their kids. I think a
lot of Americans are afraid of us," he said with a grin. "But I say we are
bringing life to this country."

Like their constituents, Taneytown officials have mixed views on illegal
immigration. They worry that a flood of poor Hispanic workers would hurt the
town but realize that something has to change for it to survive. Carl Ebaugh, a
City Council member, said he supported Chamberlain but regretted that that issue
had "gotten a little ugly."

"Fear is driving this -- fear of the unknown," Ebaugh said. "We need to get past
this bump and onto other issues, such as our problems with water and sewer, the
need to develop more industry, more useful ways to spend our time."

But anger was the dominant mood in the fire hall Wednesday night, anger
expressed in jeers and whoops that McCarron had to stop repeatedly. As one
activist from Montgomery spoke, warning that illegal immigrants would bring
crime and burden public services, a Salvadoran woman named Ana Cruz listened in
the corridor outside.

"How can they talk about us like that?" said Cruz, 53, weeping with rage.

"I worked hard for 27 years. I never asked for anything. I cleaned houses. I
raised four children. They are all citizens, and two of them are in Iraq now. I
want to say this, but I am afraid," she said, turning to leave. Inside the room,
the activist kept speaking, and cheers erupted.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post; Taneytown's
historic downtown. A proposal declaring illegal immigrants unwelcome bared fault
lines in a town where some fear an influx of poor Latinos.
IMAGE; Paul Chamberlain, left, a member of Taneytown's council, was the bill's
sponsor. Mayor James McCarron opposed it. "I will not cower just because someone
calls me a bigot," Chamberlain said.
IMAGE; Rafael Zamora, a Mexican immigrant who moved to Taneytown from Montgomery
County, was the only immigrant who spoke during a public meeting Wednesday. He
asked the town to give people like him a chance. The resolution failed in a 3 to
2 vote Monday night.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

REGIONAL BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 591 words

MARYLAND CONGRESSIONAL DEBATE

1st District Hopefuls Play Nice

Economic worries, Iraq and illegal immigration predominated in a crowded but
congenial debate yesterday for Maryland's 1st Congressional District.

Four Democrats and three Republicans shared the stage at Chesapeake College in
Wye Mills. The candidates avoided attacks on one another and spent most of the
time outlining their plans to improve the economy, boost access to health care
and address illegal immigration.

The candidates included Rep. Wayne T. Gilchrest, a nine-term incumbent being
challenged by two Republican state senators. Gilchrest is one of two Republicans
to vote last year for a timeline for withdrawal of troops from Iraq, and he used
the debate to reassure voters that he supports U.S. soldiers.

Gilchrest said he believed the troop "surge" in Iraq "has been successful" and
credited "the stunning competence of the American military."

Gilchrest and several of his rivals vowed to work in Congress to reduce illegal
immigration. The district includes Maryland's Eastern Shore and parts of Anne
Arundel, Baltimore and Harford counties.

COLUMBIA

Lender Executive Kills Wife, Self

Marital problems led a high-ranking executive of a collapsed Columbia-based
subprime mortgage lender to kill his wife inside their home and then jump to his
death from the Delaware Memorial Bridge, authorities said.

Searchers continued yesterday to look for the body of Walter Buczynski, who
parked his car on the span and jumped off about 12:20 p.m. Friday, about 20
minutes after his wife, Marci, 37, was discovered dead in their home by Evesham,
N.J., police. Authorities went to the couple's home after a male caller, later
identified by police as Buczynski, asked them to check on her.

Buczynski was vice president of Fieldstone Mortgage, a mortgage lender that made
$5.5 billion in loans and employed about 1,000 people as late as 2006. The
company has since filed for bankruptcy and now has fewer than 20 employees.
Buczynski made the two-hour commute to Columbia from his home in southern New
Jersey every day.

The Burlington County prosecutor's office said Saturday that Buczynski, 59, left
a note inside the vehicle indicating that his wife would be found at their home,
that he had jumped off the bridge and that the couple's two sons were safe.
Prosecutor Robert Bernardi said the note revealed that the motive for the
slaying was "based upon the personal relationship of the couple," not the
family's economic situation.

The county medical examiner's office determined that the wife's death was caused
by blunt force trauma to the head, resulting in a fractured neck, according to
Bernardi.

-- Associated Press

MONTGOMERY COUNTY

Pedestrian Is Sexually Assaulted

Montgomery County police are investigating the sexual assault of a 24-year-old
woman early yesterday in Chevy Chase Village near Connecticut Avenue and
Newlands Street.

The woman, a District resident, was walking from a party on Connecticut Avenue
when she was attacked about 3:30 a.m. The man, whom she did not know, forced her
from the sidewalk to a grassy area, where he sexually assaulted her, police
said.

The suspect left the scene on foot, heading east toward Newlands. The victim was
taken to a hospital, where she was treated for scrapes and bruises.

The suspect was described as Asian with short black hair, between 5 feet 7
inches and 5 feet 10 inches tall, 25 to 32 years old and 180 pounds.

Police ask anyone with information about the incident to call the major crimes
division at 240-773-5070.

-- Ann E. Marimow

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 22, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Initiative Is Left Out of Budget;
Chairman Says Funds Will Be Found

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 583 words


Prince William County Executive Craig S. Gerhart will propose a budget that
leaves out money for the county's crackdown on illegal immigration, which was
approved by supervisors after it divided the community last fall.

Like other jurisdictions in the Washington area, Prince William is facing
declining revenue because of the sagging housing market. In the coming budget
year, county officials will probably have to make cuts in jobs and services such
as education and consider raising the property tax rate to close a projected $51
million shortfall.

County staff will leave out the $3.3 million cost of the immigration initiative
when Gerhart submits his spending plan next month, forcing the Board of County
Supervisors to decide what to cut in the budget in order to pay for the new
program.

"The budget challenge is balancing an acceptable level of community progress
with the harsh fiscal reality," Gerhart said.

Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who rode the
anti-illegal-immigrant effort to reelection in November, said the board would
come up with the money for the crackdown.

"After all that dialogue, how could we not fully fund and implement it?" Stewart
said. "We made a promise to the community."

Supervisors voted in October to deny certain services to illegal immigrants and
increase police enforcement of immigration laws. Gerhart is essentially forcing
a countywide discussion of how that program should be ranked as a priority.

That discussion will start today, when supervisors will be briefed on how the
county will implement the board's directive to restrict  illegal immigrants'
access to  substance-abuse counseling; homeless assistance;  programs for the
elderly, including in-home care; and some other services.

Few county residents use some of those services, according to a staff analysis.
Other programs, such as limiting business license applications, will require a
labor-intensive process to determine the legal status of individuals using them.

Earlier this month, county police officers began training on how to check the
immigration status of anyone suspected of breaking the law, no matter how minor
the crime. The 500-plus force is expected to finish training by mid-March.
Police Chief Charlie T. Deane is scheduled to brief the board  Feb. 5.

Supervisor Frank J. Principi (D-Woodbridge), who opposed the
anti-illegal-immigration resolution as a candidate last fall, said some parts of
the program should be funded, such as initiating the deportation of criminal
illegal immigrants. But he said he is reluctant to pay for everything.

"I'm not certain we can put a price tag on the whole thing and say yes," he
said. "There are too many priorities that need to be addressed. We'll have to
pick and choose."

Even if it is never fully implemented, the resolution has  had its intended
effect, said Ricardo Juarez, general coordinator  of Mexicans Without Borders.
Illegal immigrants are leaving Prince William County, he said.

Day laborers use a 7-Eleven in Woodbridge as an informal hiring site. It was the
scene of two raids in the fall of 2004.

Men still gather there, but in smaller numbers. Swing by at 7 or 10 in the
morning, and 30 laborers can be found waiting for work.

They never know how much they are going to make from day to day. But they keep
coming back because they see no other option.

"Obviously, I am not welcome," said Juan Carlos Celaya, 28, who moved to
Woodbridge from Honduras. "But when you have no legal documentation, what else
can you do?"

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 25, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Group Links Gang Activity in Va. to Illegal Immigrants;
Study Links Illegal Residents to Much of Activity in Va.

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 509 words


Illegal immigrants are responsible for much of the gang activity in Virginia,
and the relationship among local, state and federal law enforcement agencies
should be strengthened to better address the problem, according to a study by a
Washington think tank that advocates limits on immigration.

The Center for Immigration Studies has not released its 250-page report
examining the relationship between illegal immigration and gang activity in the
state, but representatives released several findings yesterday. The group plans
to look at the issue on a national scale, but officials said it seemed logical
to start in Virginia.

"Virginia is one of the states where there has been intense interest in
addressing the illegal immigration problem, particularly the problem of illegal
immigration and crime," said Jessica Vaughan, the lead investigator for the
project. "It just seemed like a perfect case study."

The study found that 25 to 50 percent of gang members in Northern Virginia and
western parts of the state are believed to be deportable immigrants. Vaughan
said that because data varied by jurisdictions, the finding was based mostly on
interviews with law enforcement agencies, with Rockingham County officials
giving the lower estimate and Fairfax County officials the higher one.

Vaughan, who started gathering data last February, said one of the most
surprising findings was the disparity in how different jurisdictions are
addressing the issue.

In November, the Northern Virginia Regional Gang Task Force issued a progress
report that said gang crime was decreasing across the region and cooperation
between federal immigration officials and local law enforcement was increasing.

According to the task force, gang crime, not including graffiti, was down 33
percent in 2006. It fell 18 percent in the first half of  last year. The task
force referred 53 people who were arrested to U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in 2006, and at least 84 suspects were referred to ICE in the first
half of last year.

Vaughan said that although Northern Virginia has been highly successful in
tackling gang activity, with the task force working closely with ICE,
communities to the south and west have much less contact with federal
immigration officials. Like air in a balloon, she said, if gang members are
squeezed out of the area and are not deported or jailed, they will go elsewhere.

"Despite the success in Northern Virginia, much of the state is really
unprepared on how to handle this problem," Vaughn said. "That's the finding that
we have that should be of most concern to Virginia lawmakers."

Among the study's other findings was that immigration enforcement officers have
arrested more members of the gang Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, in Virginia than
in any other ICE jurisdiction.

Of the 341 gang members arrested by ICE in the state between February 2005 and
September 2007, almost 80 percent were members of MS-13, the study found. Gang
investigators estimate that 90 percent of the members of that gang are illegal
immigrants, the study  said.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Maryland's ID Policy Won't Make Us Safer

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 859 words


O n most matters related to illegal immigration, where you stand depends on
whether you think we're being overrun by criminals or undermined by
anti-foreigner hysteria.

The battle over driver's licenses in Maryland is different. There are people who
deeply believe illegal immigrants are a threat to our way of life and who
nonetheless support the notion that every driver on the road ought to be
licensed.

After all, those of us who shell out big bucks for car insurance know that every
unlicensed, uninsured driver is taking money out of our paychecks.

But Maryland's highways will soon gain tens of thousands of unlicensed
motorists, thanks to an abrupt reversal by Gov. Martin O'Malley.

In the 2006 campaign, the governor won the Hispanic vote with appearances such
as one at Casa de Maryland, the immigrant advocacy group in Takoma Park, where
he told reporters that "I don't believe that at the state and local level that
we should exacerbate the problem by enacting policies that put up . . . barriers
to getting a driver's license or getting to and from work or home." Unlike the
previous governor, who famously called multiculturalism "bunk," O'Malley seemed
intent on embracing Hispanic immigrants, even if they arrived illegally.

So advocates such as Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery) and Kim Propeack,
Casa's director of political action, accused O'Malley of a "betrayal" -- both
women used the word -- when he announced last week that Maryland would no longer
issue licenses to people who cannot prove they are here legally. As of 2010,
when the federal Real ID law kicks into effect, even people who have long held
Maryland licenses will be denied renewals.

"The governor did not keep his promise," Gutierrez says. "This is what he
promised me when he was begging for my vote for the slots referendum, which I
gave him. And that is the last time I do that."

It's not as if Maryland has had the welcome mat out for drivers who are here
illegally. "I can walk in, apply for a license and get it that day," Propeack
notes, "but what immigrants have to go through is extraordinary." The process is
so cumbersome that an industry of facilitators has emerged, charging $200 just
to arrange an appointment with the motor vehicles office. "People are
desperately trying to comply with the law," she says.

You can just hear the anti-illegal-immigrant crowd answering that one with a
crack about how, if they were so desperate to be legal, they wouldn't have
crossed the border without documents.

But you won't hear O'Malley's minions say anything like that. Secretary of
Transportation John Porcari tells me his staff indeed recommended a two-tiered
license system by which illegal immigrants could continue to get a basic license
while the rest of us got a Real-ID-compliant license -- the revved-up version
that will become the coin of the realm, thanks to a congressional mandate that
uses licenses as a national identity card.

Porcari says Maryland was forced to reject the two-tier system not because the
governor is suffering from low popularity and wants to glom onto the
anti-immigrant movement but because "the national landscape is shifting" and
Maryland could have found itself nearly alone in resisting Real ID.

But seven states are refusing to comply with Real ID, and 17 have condemned the
law, which was passed after the 9/11 attacks and requires states to conduct
time-consuming identity checks. The D.C. Council passed a resolution last fall
calling for repeal of the Real ID regulations; Virginia has set aside money to
enforce the federal rules. Neither Virginia nor the District allows illegal
immigrants to obtain driver's licenses.

Porcari says all Marylanders will face "a customer-service nightmare" when they
try to renew licenses starting in 2010. The new licenses will be used as
identification for boarding airplanes and entering federal buildings.

Gutierrez says O'Malley should have waited to see if the next president scraps
Real ID. "The governor is responding to the anti-immigrant voices in the state,"
she says.

O'Malley recognizes that denying licenses to a chunk of the state's workforce
creates considerable dangers, Porcari says. "Some people will drive with or
without a license because their livelihood depends on it," he says. "That's an
inevitable side result of turning our state driver's licenses, which are meant
to be a safety tool, into a de facto national ID card. That's terrible public
policy."

But Porcari says federal regulations leave no choice: "We're making the best of
a bad situation." His advice: Renew your license in the next year or two, even
if it's not expiring, well before Real ID takes effect.

Or hope the next president sees Real ID for what it is: a hysterical
overreaction to 9/11 that sounds tough but offers little added security. Yes,
many 9/11 hijackers had Virginia driver's licenses, but there's no reason to
believe they wouldn't be able to get licenses even under Real ID's stringent
rules: The terrorists were here legally.

E-mail: marcfisher@washpost.com

Please join me Tuesday at noon for "Raw Fisher Radio," a new weekly audio
discussion at http://washingtonpost.com/rawfisherradio.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

FOR THE RECORD: IMMIGRATION

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 329 words


"America needs to secure our borders, and with your help, my administration is
taking steps to do so. We are increasing work-site enforcement, we are deploying
fences and advanced technologies to stop illegal crossings, we have effectively
ended the policy of 'catch and release' at the border, and by the end of this
year, we will have doubled the number of Border Patrol agents."

ANALYSIS: Bush's claim that his administration has boosted prosecutions of
companies or company officials that have hired illegal workers is debatable.
Such activity decreased during his first presidential term and remains
relatively rare.

While federal immigration authorities arrested nearly four times as many people
at workplaces in 2007 as they did in 2005, for example, only 2 percent of those
arrests involved criminal charges against the employers responsible for hiring
workers. Only 92 owners, supervisors or hiring officials were arrested in an
economy that includes 6 million companies that employ more than 7 million
unauthorized workers.

Only 17 firms faced criminal fines or other forfeitures. The number of illegal
immigrants arrested in workplace enforcement cases fell from 2,849 in 1999 to a
low of 445 in 2003 before rebounding.

The deployment of technology at U.S. borders to prevent illegal immigration is
experiencing limited success.

The Department of Homeland Security in December installed a pilot 28-mile
electronic fence along the Arizona border that uses cameras, radar and ground
sensors to intercept illegal crossers, but it was six months late and requires
additional testing. The department has not said whether the projected
multibillion-dollar system is ready to be expanded as scheduled this year.

In his speech, Bush repeated an assertion that the border cannot be secured
against illegal crossers unless the United States increases channels for foreign
workers to enter legally, but he did not make any specific new proposal for them
to do so.

-- Spencer S. Hsu

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

On Va. House Panel, a Stampede Against Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Marc Fisher

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 828 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


M ove 'em on, head 'em up,

Head 'em up, move 'em on

The herd in question consists of bills -- bills aimed at cracking down on
illegal immigrants, bills being corralled through the gates of the Virginia
legislature. You can just about hear the theme song from the classic TV western
"Rawhide" as these bills, dozens and dozens of them, move through the House
Rules Committee at a rate of about one every three minutes.

Rollin', rollin', rollin'

Debate? Who needs it? Votes? A quick muttering of "yea" does the trick. Hardly
anyone at a committee meeting this week bothers to demur.

Eager to send the message that Virginia is not for illegal immigrants, lawmakers
have loaded the General Assembly's session with all manner of ways to make the
state unappealing to foreigners who don't have permission to be in the country.

If all the bills pass, illegal immigrants would be banned from enrolling in
public colleges, barred from getting a mortgage on a house and liable to be
fired if they don't speak English at work. There's even a resolution, by Sen.
Ken Cuccinelli II, the Fairfax Republican, to ask Congress to initiate a change
to the 14th Amendment so that citizenship would no longer be granted
automatically to anyone born in the United States. At least one parent would
have to be a citizen before a child could be eligible for citizenship at birth.

"I'd like us to make Virginia the most welcoming place in the country for people
who come here legally," says Del. Jeff Frederick, a Prince William Republican.
"And Virginia is going to be the least hospitable place for those who break the
law."

Not all of the bills are aimed directly at illegal immigrants. The proposals
include measures that would turn huge numbers of Virginians into surrogate
enforcement agents. Prison officials, police officers, state contractors and
other employers would have to check whether potential employees are in the
country legally. It would become a felony to "harbor, transport or conceal an
illegal alien." Anyone in a state-regulated industry caught with an illegal
immigrant on the payroll would face fines of up to $10,000 per violation.

If you sought to change your name legally, you'd have to prove your citizenship.
Same if you applied for a driver's license, tax exemption or contractor's
license. Colleges would have to check freshmen's birth certificates and report
the results on a public Web site.

Anyone -- not just illegal immigrants -- who speaks a foreign language and is
convicted in a trial in Virginia would be required to pay for an interpreter.

And if you're thinking of renting out a single-family house, you'd face fines if
you let more than four unrelated people live there. "If 30 people can live
together in a house, their rent is cheaper, and that gives them an unfair
advantage over legal Americans," says Del. Bob Marshall, a Prince William
Republican who wrote more immigration-related bills than any other legislator.
"My bill says that even if you have the 12 apostles in the house, if they're
unrelated, you're going to be fined."

(Lest you think Marshall is antagonistic to immigrants, he hastens to note:
"We're all made in God's image; I'm more angry at the employers who give them
jobs than I am at the poor folks coming over the border.")

Through rain an' wind an' weather

Hellbent for leather

So the boys -- there is one woman among 15 members -- on the Rules Committee are
having a whale of a time, pushing through the bills, racking up points with
their angry, frustrated constituents. Who cares if most of the bills are
destined to die in the Senate? What's it to you if a fair number "are
unconstitutional bills that everyone wants to do but can't?" Not my words, but
those of Del. David Albo, a Fairfax Republican who is sponsoring several
immigration bills.

Rather than concoct new ways to make life miserable for immigrants, Albo says it
makes more sense "for all of us to agree that people who commit crimes should
all be looked at for their legal status, whether they have a Hispanic accent or
they talk like [Terry] Kilgore," the delegate from Gate City known around the
Capitol for his syrupy drawl. "We can at least tee them up for [U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement] to go get 'em."

Or maybe the legislative frenzy won't amount to much. "Some of these are just
show bills," Cuccinelli says. "Some certainly have constitutional problems. At
the end of the session, the result won't match up to the public's expectation.
We're taking a shot at fixing it, but the election went the way it did."

Despite the noise from the loud minority devoted to driving illegal immigrants
back where they came from, voters were swayed by other concerns and handed
control of the Senate to Democrats last fall. But in Richmond, House delegates
stick to their old ways.

Don't try to understand 'em

Just rope, throw, an' brand 'em

Soon we'll be livin' high an' wide.

Join me at noon todayfor "Potomac Confidential" at
http://www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 1, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Handle Immigration Bills With Care, Kaine Urges

BYLINE: Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Jan. 31


Gov. Timothy M. Kaine predicted that many of what he called "mean-spirited"
proposals to crack down on illegal immigrants will not make it through the
General Assembly this year.

In an interview with Washington Post reporters and editors, the governor said he
understands why many Virginians are frustrated with the rise in illegal
immigration. He said he could support some proposals but is worried that many of
what he considered draconian bills would hurt Virginia's economy and reputation.

"We have to be so careful about this," Kaine (D) said. "We can't let these
immigrant bills go overboard and paint this picture that we are hostile to new
Americans. . . . We can't afford to go over the top on the rhetoric here."

For example, Kaine said, one proposal would require state publications to be
printed only in English.

"Tourism is one of the biggest industries in Virginia," he said. "But hey, we
are not going to publish any materials in foreign languages?"

In the interview Wednesday, Kaine also talked about the troubled Dulles rail
project, his support for the presidential campaign of Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.)
and the fate of his legislative priorities.

After an election in which many candidates promised to crack down on illegal
immigrants, more than 100 immigration-related bills were introduced in the House
and 25 in the Senate.

The Democratic-controlled Senate has killed a number of bills, such as one that
would allow employers to fire workers if they speak a language other than
English at work. Another would limit illegal immigrants' access to public
colleges, even though no one has cited evidence of a problem.

Kaine said he would consider bills to deny bail to illegal immigrants and
penalize employers for knowingly hiring illegal immigrants but not ones that
deny immigrants access to education and social services. He said he would not
sign into law any "goofy," harsh or punitive bills.

In response, House Majority Leader H. Morgan Griffith (R-Salem) said illegal
immigration is a serious problem that requires states to do whatever they can to
address it.

"If the Democrats wish to say that they embrace the illegal immigrants and think
it's okay to violate the laws of the commonwealth and of the nation, then that's
something they have to choose to do. But as for me, I would choose that we
uphold the law," Griffith said.

Kaine said he gets frustrated when legislators and others accuse the state of
not doing anything to combat illegal immigration. State prison employees refer
foreign-born defendants to the federal government, Department of Motor Vehicles
workers check new applicants for proof of citizenship or legal presence, and
National Guardsmen from Virginia are stationed at the Mexican border, Kaine
said.

Kaine and Senate Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) said many of the
candidates who campaigned the loudest last fall for sanctions against illegal
immigrants did not win.

"One thing I think we learned in the legislative election is that it is not a
concern that one party is easily able to exploit,'' Kaine said.

He said the state's business community is worried about the effects of the
immigration debate. Kaine said he told a Democratic legislative candidate to
tone down a campaign speech on immigration so he would not scare off a company
that was considering locating in his district.

If businesses "feel like they are not welcome here, they aren't coming here,''
he said.

Kaine said he is still trying to secure federal funding for the Metrorail
extension to Dulles International Airport and has not considered seeking money
from another source.

Kaine, who is one of Obama's national co-chairmen, said he thinks that voters
will support the senator because of his character and intellect. "He has
character that has been forged by adversity," Kaine said.

The governor also said the overhaul of the state's mental health system after
the Virginia Tech massacre may be one of his most significant victories this
year.

"I feel really good about it. I think that it will not only be a win for mental
health, but it will be a win of bipartisanship," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Gov. Timothy M. Kaine says that many "mean-spirited" bills won't
pass and that he won't sign any "goofy" ones.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 3, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Supervisors Could Tap Reserves for Crackdown;
Immigrant Resolution Faces $800,000 Shortfall

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 470 words


Cash-strapped Prince William County will look to its contingency reserve fund to
pay for its crackdown on illegal immigrants.

On Tuesday, the Board of County Supervisors will consider transferring nearly
$800,000 from its reserves to the Prince William Police Department to enforce
its anti-illegal immigrant resolution enacted last year. That would nearly wipe
out the county's reserves this fiscal year, which ends in June.

When county officials set aside a $900,000 surplus last year, they knew it would
not cover the cost of enforcing the plan. Prince William was further hampered
when Virginia cut $575,000 from county police services, leaving the reserves the
only option to pay for the unbudgeted initiative.

Supervisors are anticipating a $51 million budget shortfall this year and are
likely to raise taxes. The estimated cost of implementing the anti-illegal
immigrant program this fiscal year is $1.3 million.

Also on Tuesday, Police Chief Charlie T. Deane is scheduled to brief the board
on the enforcement of the resolution. Supervisors will receive an update on the
implementation of federal immigration laws at the county adult detention center.

Prince William has detained nearly 400 people since July, when supervisors
passed a resolution directing officers to check the immigration status of anyone
in police custody whom they have probable cause to believe is here illegally.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement has detained another 60 people suspected of
being in the country illegally.

Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said the county is "making good
progress."

"The numbers show this is effective in removing illegal aliens who commit
crimes," Stewart said.

There have been some unexpected issues in implementing the changes, which
officials will discuss Tuesday. "The processing is more complex than we
thought," County Executive Craig S. Gerhart said. "There is a different level of
intensity than we originally contemplated."

Deane is expected to discuss the Police Department's three-phase approach. The
first phase is training officers and implementing the policy, the second will be
public education, and the final will be evaluation. The University of Virginia,
James Madison University and the Police Executive Research Forum will review the
measure's fairness after two years.

According to an advance copy of his presentation, Deane will discuss "risk
analysis," using other jurisdictions as an example, especially when it comes to
how to avoid racial profiling and discrimination.

"We can enter this foray at various levels of funding and at various levels of
risk," Gerhart said. "The more we do to mitigate the risk, the more it costs."

Tomorrow the newly created Criminal Alien Unit will begin training in Maryland.
The seven officers will get four weeks of training in federal immigration law.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      November 6, 2007 Tuesday 9:00 AM EST

Book World: Vicente Fox's 'Revolution of Hope'

BYLINE: Vicente Fox, Former President of Mexico, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2797 words



HIGHLIGHT: Relations between the United States and Mexico have long been
poisoned by the problems of cross-border migration. ... Fox's book, Revolution
of Hope, written in English and launched with a U.S. tour, makes a direct plea
to the American people to see Mexican immigrants in a kinder light. He wants us
to have patience with Mexico's fledgling efforts at political and economic
reform, and to seek common solutions rather than building walls. His tone is
often hyperbolic, but his message is heartfelt. Review: Revolution of Hope
(Post, Nov. 4)


Relations between the United States and Mexico have long been poisoned by the
problems of cross-border migration. ... Fox's book, Revolution of Hope, written
in English and launched with a U.S. tour, makes a direct plea to the American
people to see Mexican immigrants in a kinder light. He wants us to have patience
with Mexico's fledgling efforts at political and economic reform, and to seek
common solutions rather than building walls. His tone is often hyperbolic, but
his message is heartfelt. Review: Revolution of Hope (Post, Nov. 4)

Vicente Fox, former president of Mexico, was online Tuesday, Nov. 6 at 9 a.m. ET
to discuss his new book, "Revolution of Hope: The Life, Faith, and Dreams of A
Mexican President," U.S.-Mexican relations and more.

The transcript follows.

____________________

Vicente Fox: Good morning, I am happy to be here. We just released "Revolution
of Hope," which deals with many of your questions, which I am very happy to
answer at this time.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: How long would it take for Mexico to have some kind of
sociopolitical revolution if it wasn't able to export poverty and problems into
sovereign states on its borders?

Vicente Fox: Mexico is working hard to bring opportunities to all of our people;
we need them in Mexico. We need their talent, so that Mexico can build a better
future. Mexico has a solid, reliable economy. Mexico has an unemployment rate of
less than 4 percent. Finally, Mexico's rate of population growth is down to less
than 1 percent, which makes it feasible to meet the future demands of our
people.

_______________________

Chiapas, Mexico: President Fox: I have lived in Chiapas, Mexico, as an American
teaching English for the past four years. I especially admire you for standing
up to George Bush when he demanded Mexico's support of the Iraq war. I am
ashamed of how some Americans have used the immigration issue as their launching
pad for racism. When I first arrived in Chiapas, people were a lot more friendly
on the streets. Now some scowl, and there is a great deal of anti-American
sentiment. The Miss Universe Pageant in Mexico City and a currently running
talent show on major Mexican television network reflect an unprecedented public
display of contempt for Americans. How have Mexicans reflected on their own
prejudices against Americans, which are making U.S./Mexican relations even
worse?

Vicente Fox: Thank you for your comments. I am glad that you are in Chiapas,
Mexico, and you have a clear picture of the Mexico of today.

Relations between Mexico and the United States are extremely good., athough,
right now, the immigration debate in the U.S. is fierce. I find that some
people, as well as media, are uninformed. My purpose with the book "Revolution
of Hope" is to get my message out there, so that the debate can become more
objective and better informed.

_______________________

Toledo, Ohio: Why can't/won't Mexico create an economy and society like that of
the U.S. and Canada? Do that and all the immigration problems are solved.

Vicente Fox: Unfortunately, most countries in Latin America in practical terms
lost their access to development during the 20th century. We were in the hands
of dictators, either military or personal, or authoritarian and corrupt
governments (as in the case of Mexico). Today, most of Latin America has solid
democracies and economic reforms have been made and we are back on the right
path.

In the case of Mexico, we have reached a per capita income of $8,500. We have
reduced poverty, in the past six years, by 35 percent. We have increased
people's real income by 30 percent. This combined with the substantial reduction
of population growth will give us access to development.

_______________________

Washington: How do you feel NAFTA could have been better implemented? Growing up
on the border, I felt it was rushed and killed our economy in El Paso, Texas.

Vicente Fox: NAFTA has been successful in its first 12 years for the U.S.,
Mexico and for Canada. We need a new vision for the future. We need to further
integrate. We must make out of partnership a solid success. To me, the process
in the European Union is an inspiration, certainly adaptable to our region of
the world.

_______________________

Vancouver, Wash.: What characteristics do you see in the next generation of
Mexican political leaders?

Vicente Fox: The democratic arrival in the year 2000 marked a new era for
politics in Mexico. We moved from an authoritarian government to a democratic
government. We moved from corruption to transparency. We moved from inefficiency
to good quality government. Democracy will keep changing political leadership in
Mexico for the better.

_______________________

Carlisle, Pa.: President Fox, your election changed politics in Mexico forever.
I have taught Mexican politics at U.S. Military Academy (West Point) and the
Army War College. Moreover, I have been to Mexico many times. While your
administration accomplished many important reforms, one area remained in the
dark ages: The Mexican military has embraced change very slowly. They are good
at domestic disaster relief and surprised many in the U.S. when they deployed to
New Orleans and helped us with Hurricane Katrina, but they still resist the
clarion call to participate in international peacekeeping operations. What will
it take to get over the "constitutional hurdles" and dinosaur mindsets?

Vicente Fox: Recent democracy gave us the opportunity to unanimously approve in
Congress the Law of Information Transparency and Accountability Act. The element
will bring in the eradication of corruption.

_______________________

London: Mr. President, could you explain why you criticize "anti-immigrant"
policies, such as preventing undocumented migrants from working in the United
States, when you enforced even harsher policies toward undocumented migrants
entering Mexico?

Vicente Fox: Yes, Mexico has the opportunity to see both sides of the coin on
this issue. On one side, even some Mexicans who have a job and a salary migrate
to the U.S. to attain better income than the one they get in Mexico. This is
very similar to the Irish, the Spanish, the Portuguese going to Britain for a
better salary. This just happens to be the spirit of the migrant. They always
are looking to improve their families' incomes and quality of life. On the other
side, more than 250,000 Central Americans crossed the border last year into
Mexico and further north. We all must treat them with respect. We must ensure
their human rights and make sure they are treated with dignity. This is why is
it is much better to have an immigration reform in U.S. that will bring a
framework, through which we can make immigration an asset and a "win-win"
situation for all.

By the way, Europe is struggling with same issue with Asia. I hope that with
European values, like compassion and solidarity, the right solutions will be
reached soon.

_______________________

Wheaton, Md.: Why are so many Mexicans willing to give up everything they own
and risk their lives to come to America and clean toilets? Is life in Mexico
really that horrible?

Vicente Fox: Same as my grandfather did, coming from Cincinnati down to
Guanajuato, Mexico -- without a penny in his pocket, full of courage, and
dreams. Mexico welcomed him and he found his American dream. Immigrants are a
different cast. They are a very special kind of people. They always are moving,
always dreaming and always looking for improvement.

_______________________

Kensington, Md.: Why did the drug cartels in Mexico become so powerful during
your administration?

Vicente Fox: Mexico just happens to be in between the producing drug countries
of the South and the huge consumer market of the North -- the US and Canada. We
have been in war with cartels, organized crime and drug trafficking.

There is no doubt that this is a joint responsibility for producing, consuming
and distributing countries.

I always ask myself the question: Once a drug has moved across the border, who
moves it north to New York, Chicago, etc.? Who collects and launders the huge
amount of money that comes back to Mexico to bribe the police?

We have to work together in this war. I am absolutely convinced that we will
defeat drug cartels. In my administration, we arrested 75,000 members of
cartels. Some leaders were extradited to meet U.S. justice and many others are
in Mexican jails.

Felipe Calderon is continuing with this fight. He is a man of great character
and he will succeed and become the best president that Mexico has had.

_______________________

Washington: Mr. President, it was an honor to meet you in New York, and act as
interpreter for your technical team. This is my question: Did Roberto Madrazo
and some of his allies in Congress block many of the reforms you proposed out of
ill will, or did your office mishandle relations with the opposition, thereby
decreasing the chances of effective negotiation?

Vicente Fox: You are right, we were a minority government in both houses. They
key reforms that I presented were blocked in Congress, such as the tax reform,
the energy reform and the security and law enforcement law. History will tell
who is to blame for this. But, Felipe Calderon is trying again with new energy
and he partially has advanced  the reforms. Going through a democratic
transition is complex in the beginning. The first steps toward the needed
reforms are under way.

_______________________

Laurel, Md.: What's in the future for Vicente Fox? Can you still participate in
politics in Mexico? State governor? Legislator?

Vicente Fox: There is no re-election in Mexico for the president, but I could
participate in other government positions. However, it is not in my plans. My
plans are to finish building the first ever presidential library in Mexico or
Latin America as an academic center, a think tank, and a cultural site in Rancho
San Cristobal, Guanajuato, Mexico.

Please visit us at www.CentroFox.org.mx.

I am also president of the International Democratic Center. This is a big
responsibility on which I am very committed.

_______________________

Atlanta: Mr. President, it is common to hear you praising the accomplishments of
your administration, especially regarding the "low" unemployment rate in Mexico;
however, it is well-known that illegal migration to the United States exploded
during your administration as well. Should not you acknowledge the contributions
of the American workers towards the Mexican economy? It seems to me that you are
taking credit for something you did not do.

Vicente Fox: Immigration is a 100-year-old issue and it has been growing for
years and years. As long as we have such a difference as 6 to 1 between the U.S.
income and the Mexican income, as long as people looking for a better life will
keep moving to a place where they can bring a better life to their families, we
will have this issue. This is done by U.S. citizens every day, and people around
the world, every day worldwide.

What we need is to narrow the gap of income, between Mexico and the U.S., and we
are doing so. Twenty-five years ago, the ratio was 20 to 1; today it is 6 to 1,
and we are aspiring in the near future to have the same situation as Canada and
the U.S. -- a 1 to 1 ratio.

_______________________

Raleigh, N.C.: By and large, Latin America has taken a "nonjudgmental" approach
to the human rights abuses by the Castro regime in the past 50 years. Little has
been said publicly about the executions, long prison sentences given to peaceful
dissidents, the thousands who have lost their lives trying to flee from the
regime, and the suppression of all views that do not coincide with those of the
Revolution. Instead, Latin America has urged the end of the embargo, as if
bankrupt Cuba has much of anything to sell or the means to buy. In turn, Castro
has limited his subversion in Latin countries that have supported him
diplomatically. As the Castro dictatorship finally draws to an end, do you think
this "devil's bargain" -- and I am referring to Mexico particularly -- has been
moral or even worthwhile?

Vicente Fox: Mexico always has been against the embargo, as Mexico is always
against building walls, like the one between Mexico and the United States.
Mexico is always in favor of building bridges of understanding, bridges of
trade, bridges of education and technology. Mexico is against any violation of
human rights -- as in Cuba and in the U.S. Mexico is always in favor of freedom
and democracy, which are the solid foundations of a better life.

_______________________

Delray Beach, Fla.: I heard you state in an earlier interview that there are is
no border between the U.S. and Mexico. What exactly were you implying? A
theoretical border, a physical border, that there should be no immigration laws?
Please explain.

Vicente Fox: When I have spoken and presented proposals to the U.S. government,
it is about the convenience of further integrating, and we have a clear example
on the process of integrating the European Union.

Today there is one passport, one European Citizenship, a common Parliament and
many other steps that they have taken together. This has benefited nations like
Spain, Greece and Portugal. Countries that were poor 25 years ago today have
today solidly developed economies and families with high levels of income. Why
can't we be not only partners in the long term, but a North American Union?

What would be better for the U.S. than having a prosperous Mexico?

_______________________

Washington: Mr. President. You linked a top PRI politician, Manlio Fabio
Beltrones, with drug cartels, based on DEA documents. My question is: Why you
didn't do anything about it during your administration? And if what you say is
true, why is it that he met with John Negroponte during his recent trip to
Mexico? Do you think that the U.S. protecting him?

Vicente Fox: It was the New York Times, and one of its reporters, that announced
this fact. It was long before I became president, so if anything was not done it
was because the PRI regime was ruling Mexico ,and for 72 years they covered one
another's corruption. There was no independence for the judiciary or the
legislator until 2000 when Mexico became a democratic nation with checks and
balances, through the real autonomy through each of the three branches of
government.

_______________________

Dallas: Mr. Fox, I am a Mexican who did not vote for you, and hold
left-of-center political positions in general, but I must say that in the last
two years of your administration there was a constant string of attacks on you,
some of them justified but others simply outrageous. At the end, I thought there
was a complete disconnect about what you would read in all Mexican newspapers
and your approval ratings ... something that still is going on. What are your
thoughts on this? I think its similar to what Bill Clinton experienced here...

Vicente Fox: With democracy arriving in the year 2000 we started a new era that
brought absolute freedom to media and to people. But, at the very end, freedom
must be exercised with responsibility and never affecting third parties or
breaking the law. This new framework has been used by some (including some
media) with high responsibility to make accusations without proof. But I always
will stand first for freedom than for protecting myself from these attacks. I
guarantee freedom will along my term and I keep considering that freedom and
democracy is the corner stone of building nations.

_______________________

Port Clinton, Ohio: Who were your favorite foreign leaders to hang out with? Is
that guy in Venezuela really as loco as the U.S. media portrays him to be?

Vicente Fox: Historically, Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King and Gandhi. They
accomplished the most supreme causes and did it with their power within, their
spiritual values and the commitment to even put their lives at risk in order to
accomplish their dreams.

The book "Revolution of Hope" amply deals with this subject as well as the war
for freedom of religion in the case of Mexico back in 1930. These are the people
who I admire and this is why I think that in politics, Politicians and
government should let themselves by guided more by their spiritual values than
by the polls.

_______________________

Vicente Fox: Thank you very much for your time!

Please feel free to contact Marta and I at www.centrofox.org.mx or please come
visit us in San Cristobal and we will have a good tequila and enchilada and keep
this chat going.

God bless all of you.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2007 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 24, 2008 Monday 12:00 AM EST

Both Obama And Clinton Embellish Their Roles

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writers,
Post

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 1461 words



HIGHLIGHT: After weeks of arduous negotiations, on April 6, 2006, a bipartisan
group of senators burst out of the "President's Room," just off the Senate
chamber, with a deal on new immigration policy.


After weeks of arduous negotiations, on April 6, 2006, a bipartisan group of
senators burst out of the "President's Room," just off the Senate chamber, with
a deal on new immigration policy.

As the half-dozen senators -- including John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.) -- headed to announce their plan, they met Sen. Barack Obama
(D-Ill.), who made a request common when Capitol Hill news conferences are in
the offing: "Hey, guys, can I come along?" And when Obama went before the
microphones, he was generous with his list of senators to congratulate -- a list
that included himself.

"I want to cite Lindsey Graham, Sam Brownback, Mel Martinez, Ken Salazar,
myself, Dick Durbin, Joe Lieberman . . . who've actually had to wake up early to
try to hammer this stuff out," he said.

To Senate staff members, who had been arriving for 7 a.m. negotiating sessions
for weeks, it was a galling moment. Those morning sessions had attracted just
three to four senators a side, Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) recalled, each deeply
involved in the issue. Obama was not one of them. But in a presidential contest
involving three sitting senators, embellishment of legislative records may be an
inevitability, Specter said with a shrug.

Unlike governors, business leaders or vice presidents, senators -- the last to
win the presidency was John F. Kennedy in 1960 -- are not executives. They
cannot be held to account for the state of their states, their companies or
their administrations. What they do have is the mark they leave on the nation's
laws -- and in Obama's brief three-year tenure, as well as Sen. Hillary Rodham
Clinton's seven-year hitch, those marks are far from indelible.

"It's not an unusual matter for senators to take a little extra credit," Specter
said.

Both Obama and Clinton have tried to make the most of it, and Clinton has
attempted to bolster her Senate rÂ¿sumÂ¿ with her less-than-transparent track
record as first lady. The release Wednesday of more than 11,000 pages of
documents from Clinton's years in the White House sent reporters and political
opponents scrambling for evidence that might contradict her lofty assessment of
her performance in those years.

The Obama campaign pounced on the documents, using them to argue that the
senator from New York had understated her role in securing the passage of the
North American Free Trade Agreement and overstated her roles in foreign policy
decisions and passage of the Family and Medical Leave Act early in her husband's
administration.

With colleagues in Congress quick to claim credit where it is due, word moves
quickly when undue credit is claimed.

"If it happens once or twice, you let it go," said Sen. Christopher J. Dodd
(D-Conn.), an Obama supporter. "If it becomes the mantra, then you go, 'Wait a
minute.' "

Immigration is a case in point for Obama, but not the only one. In 2007, after
the first comprehensive immigration bill had died, the senators were back at it,
and again, Obama was notably absent, staffers and senators said. At one meeting,
three key negotiators recalled, he entered late and raised a number of questions
about the bill's employment verification system. Kennedy and Specter both
rebuked him, saying that the issue had already been resolved and that he was
coming late to the discussion. Kennedy dressed him down, according to witnesses,
and Obama left shortly thereafter.

"Senator Obama came in late, brought up issues that had been hashed and
rehashed," Specter recalled. "He didn't stay long."

Just this week, as the financial markets were roiling in the wake of the Bear
Stearns collapse, Obama made another claim that was greeted with disbelief in
some corners of Capitol Hill. On March 13, Dodd, the chairman of the Senate
Banking Committee, and Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, unveiled legislative proposals to allow the
Federal Housing Administration to guarantee new loans from banks willing to help
homeowners in or approaching foreclosure. Obama and Clinton were in Washington
for a day-long round of budget voting, but neither appeared at the housing news
conference.

Yet Obama on Monday appeared to seek top billing on Dodd's proposal.

"At this moment, we must come together and act to address the housing crisis
that set this downturn in motion and continues to eat away at the public's
confidence in the market," Obama said. "We should pass the legislation I put
forward with my colleague Chris Dodd to create meaningful incentives for lenders
to buy or refinance existing mortgages so that Americans facing foreclosure can
keep their homes."

Dodd did say that Obama supported the bill, as does Clinton. But he could not
offer pride of authorship to the candidate he wants to see in the White House
next year.

"I've talked to him about it at some length," Dodd said. "When Senator Obama was
there for that full day of voting, we had long conversations about it. He had
excellent questions and decided to support it."

Clinton also has her share of colleagues only too willing scrutinize her claims.
Her campaign Web site describes Clinton's "successful effort to create" the
popular State Children's Health Insurance Program during her husband's tenure in
the White House, and she has placed herself in the middle of major international
events, including the Northern Ireland peace process and the Balkan conflict.

But prominent Democratic senators, Irish historians and even Sinbad the
comedian, who accompanied Clinton to Kosovo, are challenging some of her
assertions.

During months of SCHIP negotiations in 1997, her name rarely surfaced in news
accounts. Clinton never testified before Congress or held a news conference on
the bill. When Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (Utah), the lead GOP negotiator of the
children's health bill, heard reports that Clinton was depicting herself as
SCHIP's main advocate, "I had to blink a few times," he said. Hatch said he
doesn't recall a single conversation with Clinton about SCHIP, even a mention of
her name. "If she was involved, I didn't know about it," he said.

"You know how she says, 'I started SCHIP'? Well, so did I," joked Sen. John D.
Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.), one of the Democrats who pushed the bill across the
finish line along with Kennedy. Both have endorsed Obama.

Some Clinton insiders also are uncomfortable with some of her assertions. "I
don't really like the way she talks about her role in SCHIP," conceded one
former Clinton administration official, who supports the first lady's candidacy,
speaking on the condition of anonymity in order to express his views candidly.
"She doesn't say it right. What she should say is 'I was the driving force in
the administration.' That's pretty big, and it's all true."

Obama has left discussion of SCHIP authorship to his allies. But his campaign
has launched a broad challenge to Clinton's international bona fides.

In a memo last week, senior Obama adviser Gregory B. Craig, President Bill
Clinton's lawyer during his impeachment proceedings, disputed a series of
Clinton foreign policy claims. "When your entire campaign is based upon a claim
of experience, it is important that you have experience to support that claim,"
Craig wrote.

But it may be SCHIP that presents the biggest question marks for her. The issue
combines Clinton's twin passions for health care and children's causes, and
Clinton talks of it like a proud parent. Speaking to General Motors workers last
month, Clinton said: "If you want universal health care, you have to take on the
insurance companies -- that's exactly what I did as first lady. And when we
weren't successful, I kept on fighting until we got health care for 6 million
children."

Last fall, Kennedy said SCHIP "wouldn't be in existence" without Clinton's
support inside the White House. But when her rhetoric on the campaign trail
started to filter back to the Capitol, the veteran legislator became stingier
with his praise.

"At the last hour, the administration supported it, and she was part of the
administration, so I suppose she could say she supported it at the time,"
Kennedy said.

Chris Jennings, health policy coordinator in the Clinton White House, offers a
different account. He recalled discussing an SCHIP-like program with the first
lady even as her universal plan was unraveling. Jennings said Clinton pressed
her husband to include children's health coverage in the 1997 State of the Union
address and fiscal 1998 budget request.

But context is key, Jennings added. Barely two years had passed since the
collapse of the universal health-care idea, and Clinton was still nursing deep
political wounds. "She low-keyed her exposure, but that was on purpose,"
Jennings said. "Her feeling was 'I know my role, I'm going to be quiet, but I'm
not going to go away.' "

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 24, 2008 Monday 12:00 AM EST

Trading Places;
Prince George's Seeks to Foster Business Connections in Africa

BYLINE: Anita Huslin, Washington Post Staff Writer, Post

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 650 words



HIGHLIGHT: Over the past two decades, Prince George's County has evolved as a
gateway for African immigrants to the American middle class. Now the county is
building a bridge to their homelands that it hopes will lead to new business.


Over the past two decades, Prince George's County has evolved as a gateway for
African immigrants to the American middle class. Now the county is building a
bridge to their homelands that it hopes will lead to new business.

Before a room packed with politicians, bureaucrats and members of the local
business community, County Executive Jack B. Johnson last week announced the
creation of a new Africa Trade Office. Partially funded by a $400,000 grant from
the Small Business Administration, the office will serve as a matchmaker between
African and local businesses, sharing information, expertise and financial
incentives, when possible, with businesses that want to engage in international
trade.

"It's happening now because it can," said Johnson, who enlisted U.S. Sen.
Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) in acquiring the funding. Since his first campaign
for county executive six years ago, Johnson has reached out to immigrants,
backing Latino day-laborer centers, Indian merchants and tech firms, and African
small businesses.

In his second term, he has made trade-oriented visits to India, Senegal, Gambia,
Nigeria and Tanzania. He's invited members of African business groups to join
him: the African Business Owners' Forum, the African Business Roundtable and the
Association of Maryland Africa Societies.

"Africa is the last emerging market on the face of the planet," said Remi
Duyile, president of Image Consulting Group and treasurer of the African
Business Owners' Forum. She traveled to Nigeria with Johnson's entourage last
fall, and was inspired by the meetings with government officials and businesses
that were eager to work with Americans.

"It's an opportunity for us, especially in Prince George's County," Duyile said.
"We want to be partakers of this, rather than just observers."

Kimberly Ann Elliott, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, said
the United States' perception of Africa has not kept up with economic and
political progress. But, while international trade programs can be useful as
promotions, they generally yield modest, if any, immediate commerce, she said.

Prince George's is the only county in Maryland to have an Africa Trade Office.
As the largest and wealthiest black-majority jurisdiction in the country, it is
a logical place, Johnson said, to establish programs that capitalize on the
African Growth and Opportunity Act, which lowered trade barriers between the
United States and 37 African nations.

The volume of U.S. trade with Africa is small but growing, and local business
owners suggested that even modest local stimulus programs can yield results.

"America is missing the party in helping to develop Africa," said Wilson
Adewole, a broker for Bonview Mortgage who was born in Nigeria but has lived in
Maryland for more than half of his life.

"Our dream is to take an American business idea and take it over to Africa and
expand it," Adewole said. "We know how to do business in Africa . . . we can
bridge that [cultural] gap very quickly. The bottom line is for everyone to make
a buck in the community they serve."

Patricia Hayes-Parker, a vice president of the Prince George's County Economic
Development Corp., will oversee the new trade office. Last week, she began a
seven-week training course for local companies interested in doing business in
Africa. With new staff, the trade office will create a Web site with information
about business opportunities on the African continent and grant programs for
future trade missions.

"This is necessary because you know African markets do represent an
above-average risk," Hayes-Parker said. "But if our companies are prepared, if
they understand the culture, the politics, the business practices there, then
there truly is a chance of success."

The trade office will buy industry research databases and help screen African
companies to ensure they are ready to engage in work in the county, she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      March 27, 2008 Thursday 12:00 AM EST

Bad Judgment;
Labeling a close U.S. ally a terrorist organization, Immigration leaves a
dedicated Iraqi translator in limbo.

BYLINE:

SECTION: PRINT

LENGTH: 443 words



HIGHLIGHT: IT'S HARD to imagine a refugee from Iraq more deserving of residence
in the United States than Saman Kareem Ahmad. The 38-year-old Kurd lost his
family during Saddam Hussein's genocidal chemical attack against his home town
of Halabja in 1988; for the last several years, his de facto family has been the
U.S. Marine Corps, for which he bravely served as a translator in Fallujah.
Driven out of Iraq by death threats in 2006, he was admitted to the United
States under a special visa program for translators and granted asylum. He now
provides instruction for Marines headed to Iraq from the base in Quantico.


IT'S HARD to imagine a refugee from Iraq more deserving of residence in the
United States than Saman Kareem Ahmad. The 38-year-old Kurd lost his family
during Saddam Hussein's genocidal chemical attack against his home town of
Halabja in 1988; for the last several years, his de facto family has been the
U.S. Marine Corps, for which he bravely served as a translator in Fallujah.
Driven out of Iraq by death threats in 2006, he was admitted to the United
States under a special visa program for translators and granted asylum. He now
provides instruction for Marines headed to Iraq from the base in Quantico.

Yet, as recounted by The Post's Karen DeYoung on Sunday, Mr. Ahmad's application
for permanent residence in the United States was denied last month by U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. The pretext was patently absurd: Mr. Ahmad
had once served in the militia of the Kurdish Democratic Party (KDP), which
USCIS officials deemed an "undesignated terrorist organization" because it had
fought against the Iraqi government -- the government, that is, of Saddam
Hussein. Left out of the USCIS calculations were the facts that the KDP is one
of the few unambiguously pro-American forces in Iraq; that the group does not
appear on any U.S. government list of terrorists; and that the KDP's military
activities against Saddam were encouraged and materially supported by the United
States.

The deputy director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Jonathan "Jock"
Scharfen, acknowledges that his agency's decision "does not appear to make much
common sense." Until recently, language in the Immigration and Nationality Act
virtually compelled a finding that the KDP and similarly pro-American
organizations were "terrorists"; legislation allowing such groups to be cleared
was passed in December, but a review of the KDP has not been completed. In the
meantime, Mr. Scharfen said, the case of Mr. Ahmad is "on hold." But the
homeland security secretary is empowered to grant waivers to individuals;
Secretary Michael Chertoff should act immediately in this instance.

The larger story here concerns the Bush administration's shoddy treatment of
Iraqis who have put their lives on the line to support U.S. forces during the
last five years. Only 50 visas per year for Iraqi and Afghan translators were
allocated beginning in 2006; the number was increased to 500 for this fiscal
year, but will revert to 50 in 2009, even though 648 translators had
applications pending as of December. Not every Iraqi who has helped the United
States needs to be admitted to this country or be granted a green card. But
cases such as that of Mr. Ahmad shame this country.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 28, 2008 Friday 12:00 AM EST

Online, a Violent View of Islam;
Anti-Immigration Dutch Lawmaker Characterizes His Film as 'Tough Reality'

BYLINE: Molly Moore, Washington Post Foreign Service, Post

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 677 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE HAGUE, March 27 -- A Dutch lawmaker known for his outspoken
opposition to immigration posted a graphic film depicting Islam as a religion of
violence on a maverick video-sharing Web site Thursday night after government
and religious officials spent weeks trying to prevent its release.


THE HAGUE, March 27 -- A Dutch lawmaker known for his outspoken opposition to
immigration posted a graphic film depicting Islam as a religion of violence on a
maverick video-sharing Web site Thursday night after government and religious
officials spent weeks trying to prevent its release.

The 15-minute film splices verses from the Koran with videos of mutilated
bombing victims, the World Trade Center attack, the beheading of a man by masked
gunmen and an Afghan woman draped in a pleated blue burqa being shot in the
head.

"It is not a provocation, it is tough reality -- a reality that some Muslims
might not find comfortable," Geert Wilders, a member of the Netherlands'
far-right Party for Freedom, told reporters after the Web site LiveLeak.com
received so many hits within the first hour of posting the film that the video
temporarily froze. "I think I have made a very decent film, within the
boundaries of the law. This is a call for debate; that is how people should
respond."

Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende had warned Wilders that the film, called
"Fitna," the Arabic word for chaos or strife, could imperil the country's
national interests and endanger its soldiers and other citizens abroad. In
recent weeks, news that the film would soon be released set off violent protests
in Afghanistan, Pakistan and other predominantly Muslim countries.

"The pictures are horrible and very bloody," Rabbae said in an interview. "It is
a film according to the ideology of Mr. Wilders -- he always tries to make a
link between violence and the Koran."

Dutch television stations had refused to air the film, and Wilders was unable to
find a venue to screen it in the Netherlands because of the prohibitively costly
expense of security. The U.S. Internet provider that Wilders used to advertise
the film suspended its Web site last week.

The U.N. Human Rights Council adopted a resolution Thursday deploring the use of
the media to "incite acts of violence, xenophobia or related intolerance and
discrimination towards Islam" or other religions.

But early Thursday evening, LiveLeak.com, a site based in the United Kingdom
that specializes in running raw videos from the battlefields of Afghanistan, as
well as crime footage from around the world, posted "Fitna."

"There was no legal reason to refuse Geert Wilders the right to post his film
(Fitna) on LiveLeak.com and it is not our place to censor people based on an
emotive response," the Web site said in a statement posted next to the video.
"To many of us involved in LiveLeak.com some of the messages therein are
personally offensive. . . . Our being offended is no reason to deny Mr. Wilders
the right to have his film seen."

Within minutes of its release on the Internet, Dutch television aired clips from
"Fitna," and the film dominated the nightly news.

Paul Scheffer, a professor of urban sociology at the University of Amsterdam,
said that "in principle, criticism of the Koran or radical Islam is part of an
open society. The problem with Wilders is he has linked that with limiting the
freedom of Muslims in this country; he not only criticizes the Koran, he wants
to ban the Koran."

Wilders's personal Web site carries a banner that declares, "Stop the
Islamization of the Netherlands." The government has assigned bodyguards to
protect Wilders because of death threats against him.

The Netherlands, like most other Western European nations, is in the midst of a
divisive struggle over national identity in the face of large-scale immigration
in recent decades. The debate has been particularly pronounced in the
Netherlands, which has long enjoyed a reputation as a liberal, open society that
allowed personal freedoms.

In 2004, Dutch filmmaker Theo Van Gogh was murdered in Amsterdam by an extremist
after he released a short film criticizing Islam's treatment of women.

On Friday, a Dutch court is scheduled to hear a petition by the Dutch Islamic
Federation seeking a review of whether Wilders's film violates hate-speech laws.

Special correspondent Merel Boers in Amsterdam contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 1, 2008 Tuesday 12:00 AM EST

Tricky Votes Loom For 3 Candidates;
Lawmakers From Opposing Parties Aim to Make Campaign Trail Slippery

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman and Paul Kane, Washington Post Staff Writers, Post

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 970 words



HIGHLIGHT: With Congress returning today after a two-week break, leaders from
both parties are preparing legislative agendas -- on issues including the
economy, Iraq and immigration -- designed to present the three remaining White
House candidates with dangerous political choices.


With Congress returning today after a two-week break, leaders from both parties
are preparing legislative agendas -- on issues including the economy, Iraq and
immigration -- designed to present the three remaining White House candidates
with dangerous political choices.

The obstacle course begins immediately, with a Democratic-sponsored Senate vote
today on legislation to ease the mortgage crisis. Next week, Iraq will dominate,
when Gen. David H. Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker testify before two
committees on which Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.)
and Barack Obama (D-Ill.) serve.

By the week of April 21, sweeping housing legislation could reach the House
floor. By the end of the month, an Iraq war funding bill could be moving, with a
second economic stimulus package attached.

Republicans will counterpunch by pushing for a vote on tough immigration
legislation, and by pressuring Democrats to cave in to their demands for
legislation on surveillance of terrorism suspects that offers retroactive legal
immunity to telephone companies that cooperated with the Bush administration's
warrantless wiretapping efforts. It is clear that Capitol Hill will be a
battleground for one of the longest presidential campaigns in the nation's
history.

"A lot of what we're thinking about is, A, what you've got to do to do the right
thing, and, B, where the president is and where John McCain is," said House
Democratic Caucus Chairman Rahm Emanuel (Ill.).

There's nothing new about using the congressional agenda as a staging ground for
presidential campaign themes. In July 2004, just weeks before Sen. John F. Kerry
(D-Mass.) accepted his party's nomination, Republicans forced a vote on an
amendment to the Constitution that would have banned same-sex marriage. That
proposal was part of close coordination between Senate GOP leaders and President
Bush's campaign team.

Democrats say they hope to highlight some of McCain's less-popular positions by
forcing him to vote on certain issues or take stands on the legislation from the
trail, as Kerry was in 2004.

A test vote comes today when the Senate moves to take up legislation that would
grant bankruptcy judges more authority to modify mortgages, provide $200 million
for mortgage counseling, authorize state housing agencies to float revenue bonds
for the purchase of homes in foreclosure and allow homebuilders to write off
more losses from their taxes.

The bill fell to a Republican filibuster before Congress's spring recess, but
after the Federal Reserve Board stepped in to rescue the investment firm Bear
Stearns, Democratic leaders decided to try again.

They concede the measure is unlikely to garner the 60 votes needed to overcome
Republican concerns that it cavalierly wades into the delicate subject of
bankruptcy law. But to Democratic campaign strategists, the details of the bill
are less important than making sure its intent can be boiled down to "help for
struggling homeowners."

"The federal government has provided assistance to Wall Street. Now Congress
must turn its attention to Main Street," Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid
(D-Nev.) said yesterday.

Iraq is a more complicated political issue. When they discuss Iraq, Republicans
and Democrats seem to be looking at different wars. To Democrats and their
backers, the recent increase in sectarian violence is proof that Bush's troop
increases more than a year ago have not calmed the country or fostered political
and ethnic reconciliation.

"General Petraeus has done an excellent job, given the mission he was told to
accomplish. I don't fault him at all. Unfortunately . . . Petraeus had mission
impossible," said retired Gen. Robert G. Gard.

To Republicans, the fighting between Iraqi government forces and Shiite militias
proves the point that the central government is making progress. "I don't think
on our side we're worried. I think what they're reporting is good news," said
Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), an Armed Services Committee member.

GOP aides are circulating Clinton's comments from Petraeus's last presentation
in September, when she told the general that his report would require "the
willing suspension of disbelief" to see the success of the additional troops.

Cornyn, a member of the GOP leadership, said that "Obama has gotten by on a
campaign based on personality." He said that Clinton, an original supporter of
the Iraq war resolution in 2002, has more conflicts on the issue than McCain.

But Democratic leaders made it clear yesterday that their main focus will remain
the economy. House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-Mass.)
hopes to complete legislation this month that would allow the Federal Housing
Administration to guarantee new loans for distressed homeowners if a mortgage
lender agrees to write off some of the principal and structure repayments in a
manageable way. Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher J. Dodd (D-Conn.)
will follow suit.

Those bills will force McCain to resolve an apparent contradiction. In one
speech last week, he vowed not to accept any proposals that bailed out
speculative lenders and irresponsible home buyers. In a subsequent statement, he
promised that he was "committed to considering any and all proposals" to help
"deserving homeowners."

A McCain economic adviser said the senator was seriously considering the Dodd
and Frank bills, which, he said, "have some merit." But the aide, speaking on
the condition of anonymity because he was not cleared to speak to the press,
said he was concerned that the terms of federally backed mortgages could not be
enforced.

To Democrats, that stand would be just fine. "You can't have a period of time
where there's growing anxiety over the economy, and the basic philosophy of the
Republican Party is 'Look, Mom, no hands,' " Emanuel said.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 6, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Doctor's Immigration Ills;
Russom Ghebrai's Hospital Says It Needs Him. The U.S. Says He Has to Go.

BYLINE: Susan Levine; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1394 words


Russom Ghebrai walks the corridors of Greater Southeast Community Hospital with
quiet authority. Seventy hours a week, he dons the white coat of his profession
and attends to patients on the fringes of medical care.

On the eighth floor is a 36-year-old man with HIV and kidney failure. Next door
to him, a parolee with heart problems. Patient after patient, typically
indigent, uninsured and suffering a tangle of diseases and complications.

"We are blessed to see you," he tells them.

In the eyes of his colleagues, Ghebrai is a physician of dedication and skill.
But to the U.S. government, he is a deportable alien. Having denied a claim for
asylum, it has ordered him and his wife to return to their native Eritrea. They
must provide proof to officials by Monday that they have applied for Eritrean
passports and begun arranging their travel.

Ghebrai's case skews the images often invoked in the debate over immigration. He
is a doctor serving some of the most medically needy residents of the nation's
capital. At a hospital that almost closed last year, in part because of its
inability to attract doctors to care for this population, there is amazement.

"We have somebody who wants to stay in this for the long term," said Wietske
Moore, a family nurse practitioner, "and we're then going to kick him out?"

It was Ghebrai's wife, Minya, who filed for asylum, recounting her arrest,
detention and torture at 19 by soldiers for the authorities who then controlled
Eritrea. Ghebrai arrived several months later and his name was added to her
request, as sometimes occurs with spouses. Both were allowed to remain while the
case was pending.

But repeatedly the government deemed her story not credible, based on
discrepancies in their testimony and issues with documents their attorneys
submitted. One judge questioned the couple's identities and marriage.

Haunted by nightmares and flashbacks dating back two decades, Minya is a changed
person today. With every denial, she has become more despairing.

In the rare moments when her husband lets down his guard at work, the strain
shadows his face. "Help me, God," he prays daily.

'Chain of . . . Failures'

Both entered the United States on legitimate visas: she as a business visitor,
he as an exchange visitor.

Minya fled Eritrea in 1994, not long after being pulled from her workplace by
security forces, interrogated about her past political activities and warned to
watch her step. Her husband says that was when he learned she had been
imprisoned a half-dozen years earlier.

Eight months pregnant, Minya left their young daughter with Ghebrai and flew to
the United States from Asmara, a capital slightly smaller than the District.

He followed in 1996 after receiving an opportunity to train at the Veterans
Affairs medical center in Los Angeles. He was a senior doctor in Asmara's
biggest hospital, which had swelled to 800 beds during the years of fighting
between Eritrean rebels and Ethiopian troops. But his position offered little
safety. Officers came around to press him about his wife's whereabouts. He sent
their daughter to relatives in Kenya.

They have yet to be reunited.

"Why don't you bring her here?" wonders the couple's 5-year-old son, who, like
his 13-year-old brother, was born in the United States.

Minya filed for sanctuary several months after her visa expired. The claim for
her and her husband rested on her history in the Eritrean Liberation Front, a
revolutionary group that fought for independence from Ethiopia but these days is
one of many organizations targeted by Eritrea's leaders. U.S. law specifies that
asylum can be granted for past persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution
based on political affiliation.

The law also addresses religious beliefs. Although the evangelical church where
the couple worships would be banned in Eritrea -- U.S. officials and
international human rights groups have accused its rulers of using violence to
repress religion -- no lawyer raised faith as an issue.

"You can get arrested for being at a prayer meeting," said Dan Connell, an
expert on Eritrea who lectures on journalism and African politics at Simmons
College in Massachusetts. The dates Minya cites for her detention and abuse are
"absolutely credible," falling within a decade of terror and secret jails, he
said. Many citizens still live in fear, he added. "This is a consolidated
dictatorship."

The application wended its way through a multi-stage system of both
administrative and judicial review. Jan Pederson, the attorney now representing
the couple, describes their decade-long legal journey as "a chain of multiple
failures."

The first immigration judge they encountered held multiple hearings and then was
put on leave because of a derisive quip to a Ugandan woman in another case. His
replacement decided that the couple needed to retell their stories and then
seized on inconsistencies in Minya's testimony, particularly the number of times
she said she had been raped in prison. Unless she was lying, he concluded, that
was something she would never confuse or forget. The day he denied her and her
husband asylum, he punched "Play" on a tape recorder and let it announce his
ruling as he exited the courtroom.

Immigration judges have considerable discretion on the issue of credibility.
Inconsistencies are not automatically reasons for asylum to be refused. Yet
their next attorney, who argued the case before an immigration appeal board,
failed to address conflicting details on several key points of their previous
testimony. His lapse proved devastating.

The board turned them down. And last fall, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 1st
Circuit dismissed their petition without scheduling arguments. A few weeks
later, that lawyer was suspended for his incompetent counsel in their case.

The Baltimore office of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is in charge of
the couple's removal. "It can be very unpopular when someone's been told they do
not have the right to live here," acknowledged Dorothy Herrera-Niles, the
assistant field office director.

The office has been generous in its handling of the case. Because of Minya's
emotional state and their two young children, neither Ghebrai nor his wife was
taken into custody. In mid-January, however, at what they expected to be a
perfunctory visit to the ICE office, Minya was handed a copy of the Eritrean
Embassy's one-page passport renewal application and given 30 days to return it.

She was shaking when she left. "I wish I'd never been born," she said.

"We can't change the judge's decision," Herrera-Niles said later. "She's had her
due process, and it's basically just time for her to go."

They have almost no options now. Pederson, who had been counting on
psychological evaluations confirming Minya's diagnosis of acute post-traumatic
stress, hopes to convince the Baltimore immigration director that there are
humanitarian reasons to grant her clients what is known as "deferred action."
That would put their deportation on hold, but with no guarantees.

Pederson also has advised Ghebrai to look toward Canada.

'He Contributes So Much'

Their pastors at Immanuel's Church in Silver Spring are rallying around them as
the couple searches for strength and direction. The Sunday after Minya's
appearance in Baltimore, the scripture from Revelation that greeted them at the
morning service seemed prophetic: "See, I have placed before you an open door
that no one can shut."

Doctors and nurses at Greater Southeast are lending support, too. Ghebrai, 47,
began working at the hospital in 2005 after finishing a residency program at
Howard University Hospital that qualified him to practice in this country. In
his early years here, the internist supported his family in part by pumping gas.

"He contributes so much," Chief Medical Officer Cyril Allen said. "He was just
as important to the hospital staying open as anyone."

Allen and other principals at the hospital have written testimonials on his
behalf.

Last week, Greater Southeast elevated Ghebrai's stature, naming him director of
one of its physician groups. Given the uncertainty of his future, he wasn't sure
he should accept the title.

Finally, he agreed, adding another responsibility to his burden: the demands of
his work, the concerns about his patients and, above all, his worries for his
family.

"We just need peace," he said. "Whatever it is, we need peace."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Russom Ghebrai, right,
who treats many of the poorest patients at Greater Southeast Community Hospital,
faces deportation to Eritrea.
IMAGE; By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Zeleke Desse, left, a doctor who
is from Ethiopia, consults with Russom Ghebrai. Colleagues support Ghebrai's
efforts to stay in the United States.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2008 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Why McCain Endures;
The Candidate Knows That Hopefulness Sells

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 777 words


The attacks of movement conservatives -- particularly the talk radio and
blogging crowd -- on John McCain have reached a shrill, off-key crescendo.
McCain is not only "dangerous" and "stupid," he has "contempt for his fellow
humans." His opponents will refuse to vote in the general election or will even
campaign for Hillary Clinton.

McCain is partly responsible for this state of affairs. Over the years, he has
enjoyed poking angry bears with short sticks -- flirting with conversion to the
Democratic Party and lashing out at Christian conservatives as "agents of
intolerance."

Yet for some conservatives, the frustrations run deeper than resentment for a
single, outsized, prickly, infuriating man. Early in this cycle, many elements
of the Republican coalition rooted for -- and fully expected -- a decisive,
ideological break from the compromised Bush years on issues such as immigration
and foreign policy.

Those hopes have been disappointed.

First, tough immigration restrictions were supposed to be a unifying rallying
cry -- the defining domestic commitment of the post-Bush Republican coalition.
Illegal immigration was framed as a simple political issue: Since illegal
immigrants are just another type of criminal, targeting them is merely a defense
of the rule of law.

But a young woman who dies in the desert during a perilous crossing for the
dream of living in America is not the moral equivalent of a drug dealer.
Millions of hardworking, religious, family-oriented neighbors make unlikely
"criminals." And treating them as such alienates an even larger group of
Hispanic citizens.

Immigration is not a simple political issue like crime; it is a complex
political issue like affirmative action. Many Americans, and most Republicans,
oppose affirmative action. But a candidate who makes this issue the emotional
centerpiece of his or her campaign gains a taint of intolerance. The choice
itself symbolizes a divisive approach to politics. This is the frequent problem
with poll-driven candidates: It is possible to embrace a popular position and
still appear small and opportunistic in the process.

As the primaries progressed, John McCain was forced to trim on the immigration
issue. But he did not surrender his previous convictions like Mitt Romney and
Mike Huckabee -- who used their white flags as campaign banners. The most
pro-immigration Republican candidate is likely to be the Republican nominee --
not because his view on this topic prevailed, but because a strong, appealing
presidential candidate does not target millions of men and women as a political
strategy.

Second, some conservatives expected the Republican nominee to play down Bush's
foreign policy idealism and focus narrowly on direct American interests. Bush's
democracy agenda was criticized by some traditionalists and realists as "utopian
Wilsonianism" and "as un-conservative as it can be." Fred Thompson attempted to
curry conservative favor in South Carolina by deriding Bush's increases in
global AIDS funding as a diversion from real American needs.

But of all the Republican candidates, John McCain has displayed the most
ideological continuity with Bush's moral internationalism. McCain has argued
that the "protection and promotion of the democratic ideal" is the "surest
source of security and peace." He calls for a "League of Democracies" that would
"relieve human suffering in places such as Darfur, combat HIV/AIDS in
sub-Saharan Africa, fashion better policies to confront environmental crises. .
. ." And McCain is one of the strongest Republican supporters (along with
Huckabee) of the commitments of the bipartisan ONE Campaign to treat global
AIDS, eradicate malaria, fight hunger and provide clean water in the poorest
places on Earth. (By way of disclosure, I sit on the advisory board of ONE Vote
'08.)

This kind of foreign policy idealism has been reaffirmed not because it is
wildly popular but because it is unavoidable. America faces a series of
challenges -- from terrorism to drug cartels to infectious disease -- that take
root in failed regions of the world. Our efforts to oppose despair and disorder
have a very realistic purpose. The tradition of moral internationalism -- which
reaches back to Roosevelt, Kennedy and Reagan -- is more necessary than ever.
And it is durable enough to survive some serious, early mistakes in Iraq.

The lessons of the McCain resurrection run deeper than the limits of talk radio:
Candidates of unity are more appealing and electable. American ideals are
indispensable in the conduct of American foreign policy.

Some conservatives have reacted with anger. For others of us, there is only
relief.

michaelgerson@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The Coming Change;
The next president will ban torture and seek solutions for global warming and
immigration. That's a good start.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 615 words


THE DEMOCRATIC presidential race remains a tossup, but the contours of the
general election debate, and to some extent the next administration, have become
remarkably clear in the past few days. Whether John McCain, Hillary Rodham
Clinton or Barack Obama, the next president will be a senator, the first in 48
years to enter the White House from Congress. As much as executive experience
may be a plus for the presidency, there is something to be said about coming to
the White House with a nuanced understanding of what it takes to get things done
in Washington. Perhaps it's not too much to hope that a president who's been
stuck in gridlock will begin a new administration with a good understanding of
how to fix it.

In contrast to the current White House occupant, the next president will
prohibit the use of waterboarding and other forms of torture that have stained
America's reputation abroad. In contrast to President Bush, the next president
will not start as a skeptic about the danger posed by global warming, and he or
she will favor, not resist, legislation to impose mandatory caps on greenhouse
gases, even without an international agreement binding other nations. The next
president will support federal funding for embryonic stem cell research and
vigorous regulation of the campaign finance system. The next president, however
chastened by the angry debate over illegal immigration, will believe in the need
for comprehensive immigration reform and support the idea of giving those in
this country illegally a path to earn legal status. This is one Bush
administration position we are relieved will stay constant.

But the November matchup will also present sharp contrasts between the two
party's nominees. As Mr. McCain told the Conservative Political Action
Conference on Thursday, some elections are "fought within margins of small
differences. This one will not be. We are arguing about hugely consequential
things." The most obvious involves the war in Iraq; the two Democrats have
pledged to "end" the war, by which they mean to withdraw combat forces as
quickly as possible without being terribly clear about how they would handle the
ensuing instability. Mr. McCain warns that the Democrats' approach "recklessly
ignores the profound human calamity and dire threats to our security that would
ensue" and speaks of the possible need to be in Iraq for years to come. More
fundamentally, Mr. McCain says that he wants to be president to combat "the
terrible evil of radical Islamic extremism," while the Democrats tend to
downplay the threat of Islamic extremism.

In the domestic sphere, the two parties' nominees also have conflicting visions
of the proper role and size of government. They differ over the wisdom of
extending all the Bush tax cuts: Mr. McCain vows to do so, while the Democrats
would roll back the tax cuts for the top earners. They disagree over the best
approach to restraining health-care costs and making insurance affordable, with
Mr. McCain placing far more emphasis on market forces and eschewing any
mandates, either on individuals to purchase coverage or on insurers to offer
coverage to all. They have opposing views about abortion and gay rights. And in
the difference with the most long-lasting consequences, they would appoint
markedly different types of justices to the Supreme Court, where the next
president could have several vacancies to fill. Mr. McCain vows to pick justices
"of the character and quality" of Mr. Bush's two picks, Chief Justice John G.
Roberts Jr. and Samuel A. Alito Jr.; both Democratic senators voted against
those nominees.

The casting hasn't been completed, but the stage is set for a compelling general
election.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Voices as Diverse as Their Backgrounds

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 902 words


The looming "Potomac Primary" has shifted the Democratic nomination battle to
one of the nation's most diverse immigrant strongholds. One in five Washington
residents is foreign born, with natives of not just El Salvador but also of more
than 10 other nations,  including Korea, India and Ethiopia, accounting for a
sizable share.

Until now, immigrants' electoral clout has lagged their numerical strength.
Because most aren't U.S. citizens, foreign-born locals account for only 7
percent of the area's eligible voters. Even those who are citizens often aren't
familiar with the political process.

But that doesn't take into account the growing number and sophistication of
immigrants' U.S.-born adult children or the galvanizing effect of a dead heat in
which even the smallest voting bloc stands to make the difference. Amid the
excitement, first- and second-generation immigrants across the region say they
are mobilizing as never before. Here's a sampling:

Dave Kumar, 36, the District

Revelation came to Dave Kumar through a TV screen, as he watched Sen. Barack
Obama (Ill.) tell the 2004 Democratic National Convention about "the hope of a
skinny kid with a funny name who believes that America has a place for him,
too."

For Kumar, a lawyer born in the United States to Indian parents, the sense of
identification was immediate.

"Here was someone who understands what it's like to be perceived as different
yet still believe he's an American," he said. "I just felt this moment of
absolute pride."

Hundreds of like-minded peers have flocked to the "South Asians for Obama"
volunteer group that Kumar subsequently co-founded.

Attracting their parents has been another matter. Kumar attributes at least some
of the older generation's apparent preference for Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
(D-N.Y.) to political immaturity. Many first-generation Indian immigrants are
content to have their photograph taken with a politician in place of getting
genuinely involved, he said. Others are narrowly focused on the issue of U.S.
relations with India. Either way,  they are drawn to establishment candidates
with a  track record of support for India.

By contrast, "for the younger generation, it's about so many other issues. It's
about civil rights. It's about bringing the nation together and getting past all
the identity politics that bog us down."

Annabel Park, 39, Silver Spring

Filmmaker Annabel Park dates her political awakening to a rather less-inspiring
historical moment: then-Sen. George Allen's use of the word "macaca" to mock an
Indian American Democratic activist shadowing  the Republican's 2006 reelection
campaign.

"I suddenly felt like I was back [to] when I was the only Asian in my school,
and people literally viewed us like monkeys," said Park, who was born in Korea
and moved to the United States at age 9.

Her outrage inspired her to volunteer in support of Allen's opponent, Democrat
James Webb, forming a tight bond with more than a dozen other Korean American
first timers in the process. Now they are tapping their considerable network of
Korean American contacts to drum up votes for Obama.

Like Kumar, Park says she detects a generation gap in the response, albeit for
slightly different reasons. "Almost every single person who supports Obama will
tell you it's because they listened to him speak. . . . That's when you can
really sense his authenticity," she said. "Unfortunately, because of the
language barrier in the Asian American community, a lot of [older] people don't
get to experience that. And there's just no way to translate it for them."

Isi Siddiqui, 65, McLean

As a longtime Democrat, Indian-born Isi Siddiqui has raised money and
volunteered  for plenty of  campaigns. But nothing compares to the lengths he's
gone to turn out the vote for Clinton.

"I've been knocking on doors. I've been speaking at mosques. I even took five
days off to volunteer in Nevada," said Siddiqui,  an undersecretary in the
Agriculture Department under the Clinton administration who is now vice
president of a trade association.

His enthusiasm, he said, stems from his sense that as a Muslim American living
in post-9/11 United States, the stakes have never been higher. "On both the
foreign policy and the domestic front, I see  a real danger from people who are
ideologues and who have really anti-immigrant views," he said.

But he said he is also motivated by a feeling that "we need to be more proactive
and involved in the political process of our country, because on the
international front, you see a lot of people who are extremist speaking on
behalf of Muslims. . . . Those of us in the silent majority need to speak out
more to marginalize those views."

Funke Oderinde, 48, Greenbelt

She may hail from the same continent as Obama's father, but don't expect Funke
Oderinde to support him out of some sense of African solidarity. The Obamas,
noted Oderinde with a laugh, are from Kenya. She was born in Nigeria, about
2,000 miles west on the opposite coast.

But more important, the committed Democrat said she finds herself drawn to
Clinton for the same reasons many immigrants cite: her combination of high
educational attainment, experience, age and history of weathering political
storms.

"The general election is not going to be like these primaries. The Republicans
are going to really attack. Frankly, I don't think Obama has a chance."

By N.C. Aizenman  {vbar}      Washington Post Staff Writer

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Annabel Park says she senses Obama's "authenticity."
IMAGE; Isi Siddiqui takes his enthusiasm for Clinton door-to-door.
IMAGE; Dave Kumar found a sense of identification with Obama.
IMAGE; Funke Oderinde admires Clinton's ability to weather storms.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 11, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The Frustration of Being Illegal;
Prince William Political Climate Adds to Deportation Fear

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 910 words


Celia Llanes came to the United States 4 1/2  years ago with typical immigrant
aspirations. She hoped to provide for her family, earn enough to buy a patch of
land back home and perhaps take her girls to Disney World. Today, her wish is
far simpler: that when she is deported her girls will be deported with her.

"I am waiting for immigration," she says with a matter-of-fact tone. She has
begun sending some of her more valued belongings (such as a set of Royal
Prestige pots she paid for in installments) to Guatemala because, she says,
"they don't let you take anything."

As the anti-illegal-immigration backlash grew last year in Prince William
County, where Llanes lives, the 32-year-old Manassas resident said she started
to feel the world around her change. She said supermarket cashiers suddenly grew
annoyed and acted as if they didn't understand her. She said her girls told her,
"Mami, las maestras prefieren a los Americanos." ("The teachers prefer the
Americans.")

Prince William county supervisors voted in October to enact some of the region's
toughest policies against illegal immigrants, including the use of police to
enforce immigration laws. Llanes says the new measures have become such a source
of personal anxiety that she is convinced they are taking a toll on her health.
She has sharp stomach pain apparently caused by gallstones, and her frequent
headaches have gotten worse.

Llanes, her husband and their children don't venture far from home for fear of
being stopped while driving without a license. In the summer, she did not take
the girls to the neighborhood pool because she has heard of raids at public
places. On Christmas, they only went to a brother-in-law's house nearby and did
not stay long.

Llanes is resigned and, in a way, agrees with those anti-illegal-immigrant
forces around her. As someone who entered the country illegally, she does not
feel she is entitled to much.

"If they are going to take me away, let them; after all, this country is not
ours," she often says.

These days, she most fears that she'll be alone when she is finally stopped and
deported, just as she heard happened recently to a young man whose mother had
sent him to buy shrimp at the local Global Food market. She can't bear the
thought of leaving her girls behind. One separation "already cost me too much,"
she says.

Building a New Life

Llanes started her journey north in summer 2003. She left the girls in the care
of a friend in Tecun UmÃ¡n, near the Mexican border, telling them only that she
was going to Mexico to visit one of her brothers in the hospital.

Indeed, her brother, who had been attacked by bandits with machetes in his first
attempt to get to the United States, was a main incentive for Llanes to leave.
She hoped to send him enough money so he could pay for a safer way north. She
soon began also sending money, clothes and toys to the girls.

As daughter Yancy's fifth birthday was approaching, Llanes sent money for a
cake. But it was that day, Oct. 4, 2005, when Hurricane Stan hit. Floods
destroyed many homes and were responsible for the deaths of more than 1,500
people in Guatemala. Yancy later told her mother that she saw their few
belongings -- and her cake -- floating away in the muddy waters.

It was then when Llanes and her husband decided to scrape together $12,000 to
pay a smuggler to get the girls here.

At the time ages 3 through 11, the girls were arrested by U.S. authorities after
crossing the border. Llanes left their youngest, born in Manassas, with her
husband and boarded her first plane.

Two days before Thanksgiving 2005, Llanes sat nervously in a waiting room of an
immigration office in Phoenix. Suddenly agents surrounded her, and one asked the
girls, who had just walked in the room, if they knew who she was.

"They ran and hugged me saying 'mami,' " Llanes recalls through tears. It had
been almost 2 1/2  years since she had seen them.

An Unfavorable Change

Llanes was allowed to stay with the girls in the country. At one point she
consulted immigration advocates in Washington to explore their legal options but
dropped the idea once she was told how much it would cost.

Despite "backbreaking" jobs, they've never had money to spare. On top of the
political climate, they've been badly hurt economically. The housing crisis,
which hit Prince William particularly hard, has meant much less work for
construction workers such as Llanes's husband.

What's more, the four-bedroom brick rambler she and her family share with
relatives is soon to be repossessed by the bank. A friend who bought it for
nearly half a million dollars last year can no longer pay the mortgage.

Llanes, who had no education except for the few months at age 13 when a relative
took her in and sent her to school, inculcates in the girls the importance of
taking advantage of their opportunity to study and learn English. "I wish I
[had] that opportunity," she tells them.

Llanes makes about $25 every weekday taking care of friends' children, and from
Friday through Sunday earns $6.60 an hour making tacos. That money covers most
of their food expenses, she says.

"With the situation as it is, I want to leave," she said.

She says her girls and the other children she cares for provide a welcome
distraction. Still, she recalls a Spanish expression: "caras vemos, corazones no
sabemos" (faces we see, hearts we don't know) to explain that she carries her
share of anguish. Or as she put it, "only God knows how one is feeling inside."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Celia Llanes,
an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, gives milk to her daughter and two children
she baby-sits.
IMAGE; Llanes cries as she recalls paying to have her brother brought to the
United States. She says Prince William County's political climate has her
worried.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 11, 2008 Monday
                                 Every Edition

SRA International to Do Tech Work for Customs

BYLINE: Alice Lipowicz; Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 346 words


SRA International of Fairfax has won a three-year, $17.9 million contract from
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to help the agency use computer systems
to identify foreign visitors who have illegally overstayed their visas.

The customs and immigration agency, which is part of the Department of Homeland
Security, enforces laws against illegal entry, smuggling and other criminal
behavior. SRA has worked with ICE since 2003 to help identify foreigners who
have violated the terms of their visas, said Pat Reilly, a spokeswoman for the
agency.

SRA will help the agency with law enforcement analysis and information
technology. The SRA team of programmers and administrative analysts will help
comb through databases and analyze information in ICE and Homeland Security
Department computer systems. The analysis will be supplemented by data from
publicly available information databases, Reilly said.

SRA also will put into place technical support staff to do training and
statistical analysis and to manage databases designed by SRA.

SRA last week reported an 8 percent increase in its quarterly profit, to $18
million from $16.7 million in the comparable period last year. Revenue rose 19
percent during the fiscal second quarter, to $382 million.

The company attributed most of the sales gains to its purchases of Raba
Technologies of Columbia in October 2006 and Constella Group of Durham, N.C., in
August 2007.

SRA won several government contracts during the second quarter, including a $67
million task order from a new civilian agency customer that it declined to name,
a $48 million contract from the National Institutes of Health and orders
totaling $39 million from the Agency for International Development.

"Capturing more and larger new contracts is a vital element of our strategic
plan as we seek to accelerate organic growth into the double digits," Stanton
Sloane, SRA's chief executive, said in a conference call.

Alice Lipowicz is a staff writer with Washington Technology magazine. For more
news on government contracts, go to http://www.washingtontechnology.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

U.S. Latino Population Projected To Soar;
Forecast Predicts Tripling by 2050

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 623 words


The number of Hispanics in the United States will triple by 2050 and represent
nearly 30 percent of the population if current trends continue, according to a
report released yesterday.

The study by the nonpartisan, Washington-based Pew Research Center also found
that nearly one in five Americans will be foreign-born in 2050, compared with
about one in eight today. Asian Americans, representing 5 percent of the
population today, are expected to boost their share to 9 percent.

Blacks are projected to maintain their current 13 percent share. Non-Hispanic
whites will still be the nation's largest group, the report says, but would
drop from 67 percent of U.S. residents to 47 percent.

Overall, by 2050 the U.S. population is projected to increase by 47 percent,
from 296 million in 2005 to 438 million.  Newly arriving immigrants would
account  for 47 percent of the rise, and their U.S.-born children and
grandchildren would represent  another 35 percent.

Authors of the study, which roughly tracks similar analyses by the Census Bureau
and other sources, cautioned that their findings are projections based on
immigration and demographic trends that may change.

Nonetheless, the report offers an intriguing picture of the possible long-term
effects of the immigration surge that began after 1965, when Congress abolished
a quota system that had nearly ended immigration from non-European countries
since the 1920s.

Because of a declining birthrate among U.S.-born women, immigrants and their
U.S.-born children and grandchildren already account for most of the nation's
population increase over the  past several decades. The study projects that by
2025, the foreign-born share of the population will surpass the peak recorded
during the waves of immigration that occurred between 1860 and 1920, when
foreign-born residents represented as much as 15 percent of the U.S. population.

But the study's authors said that immigration will do little to offset the more
than doubling of the nation's elderly population as baby boomers age. By 2050,
people older than 65 will make up 19 percent of the population, compared with 12
percent in 2005, while the share of working-age people will shrink from 63
percent to 58 percent.

This translates into a sharp rise in the "dependency ratio" of working-age
people, compared with the number of young and elderly. Today, there are about 59
children or elderly people per 100 working-age adults. By 2050, that figure is
expected to  increase to 72 dependents per 100 working-age adults.

Though advocates of immigration have suggested that the newcomers can help
offset the pressure boomers put on Social Security, the report indicates that
even if immigration were reduced by 50 percent, the dependency ratio would
change only from 72 dependents to 75 per 100 working-age adults.

Those who oppose allowing immigration to continue at its current pace
interpreted the findings as vindication. "These numbers underline the fact that
immigration is not a solution to the aging of the population," said Mark
Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors further limits on
immigration. "And then we need to ask ourselves if we want the 100 million more
people immigration will bring. Do you want 80 million more cars on the road, or
40 million homes occupying what's now open space?"

At a news conference to announce the report yesterday, co-authors D'Vera Cohn
and Jeffrey S. Passel declined to draw policy conclusions. They also noted that
even if their projections are accurate, the social implications may be different
by 2050: Given the high rate of intermarriage between Latinos and members of
other ethnic groups, many descendants of today's Latinos may not even identify
themselves as such.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Clashes Looming On Immigration, Taxes, Lending;
Senate, House Take Different Tacks

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar and Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 931 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Feb. 12


-- The Virginia House and Senate took sharply different paths Tuesday on
immigration, tax increases and payday lending reform, setting up what could be a
bitter fight over some of the year's most controversial issues.

Tuesday, the midpoint of the legislative session, was the deadline for each
chamber to finish work on its own legislation, leading to action on a flurry of
bills. The differences were evident as a committee in the Democratic-led Senate
approved legislation to allow the state to sell $2.6 billion in construction
bonds to build or improve dozens of colleges, parks and medical buildings. The
Republican-led House passed a more modest version of the bond proposal that
would allow the state to borrow closer to $1.8 billion.

Delegates and senators are likely to haggle over the legislation before it
reaches Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), who has said approval of a large bond package
is one of his priorities.

House Majority Leader H. Morgan Griffith (R-Salem) said Tuesday the House would
consider the Senate bond plan closely.

"I would say they are probably going further than we would be willing to go,''
Griffith said. "But I don't want to say there is a line in the sand. If they've
got some things responsibly planned out and it works, we may agree to some of
it."

Earlier in the day, a Senate committee advanced a bill that would raise the
state gasoline tax for the first time in more than two decades. Under the bill,
proposed by Senate Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax), the tax would
go up by a nickel over five years to pump $250 million into a fund for road
maintenance. House Republicans have already said they will not support a gas-tax
increase.

Senate Democrats and several Republicans said it was necessary to take the
politically risky position, especially because of the funding gap that will be
left when the unpopular high fees for bad drivers are repealed.

The abusive-driver fees "simply didn't pan out," said Sen. R. Edward Houck
(R-Spotsylvania). "I don't really want to vote for this bill, to be honest with
you. Politically? No. But practically, heck, yeah."

Another showdown is likely over immigration. On Tuesday, the House passed a bill
70 to 29 that would protect employers who fire workers for speaking a language
other than English at work. Del. Mark L. Cole (R-Fredericksburg), who sponsored
the bill, said it was designed to protect employers from discrimination lawsuits
and help small business owners.

But the Senate killed a similar bill in a committee last month, calling it and
some other bills aimed at illegal immigrants mean-spirited. The Senate did
approve a bill Tuesday that would prevent illegal immigrants arrested for
certain crimes from being eligible for bail. The House passed a similar bill.

Payday lending reform is another potential battlefield. The Senate voted 37 to 2
Tuesday to further regulate payday lenders, but the bill differed from the
version the House passed Monday.

The House proposal would limit the number of loans borrowers can obtain each
year, extend the amount of time they would have to repay loans and cap the
annual interest rate lenders could charge at 36 percent, although it would allow
them to charge other fees.

A Senate proposal would also cap interest rates at 36 percent and allow lenders
to charge other fees but does not cap the number of loans a borrower can take
out in a year. Virginia law now allows lenders to charge annual interest rates
of nearly 400 percent for a short-term loan.

Sen. Mamie E. Locke (D-Hampton) voted for the bill, although she said it does
not go far enough. "This bill is in reality smoke and mirrors, but I am going to
hold my nose and vote for it,'' she said.

Saslaw, who has opposed payday-lending reform in the past, said the Senate bill
is superior to the House bill. Senators rejected a proposal to limit the number
of loans a borrower could take out in a year but passed an amendment that says
payday lenders must be at least 1.5 miles apart.

Saslaw argued against limiting the number of loans a person can get. "We have no
business telling these people what they can do and how much they can use it,''
he said.

Jamie Fulmer, spokesman for Advance America, the largest payday loan company,
said the industry prefers the Senate bill.

Senators also narrowly passed a bill that would overhaul the way developers pay
for roads, schools and other services, despite strenuous opposition from
Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads officials who say the changes will be
devastating to taxpayers. Opponents will now be lobbying delegates to try to
block the bill in the House.

Under the current system, local governments negotiate cash donations from
developers to pay for roads, schools, libraries and other services that serve a
development's new residents. The fees are especially high in such places as
Loudoun County, which collects about $47,000 for each new home to build
infrastructure for its fast-growing population.

Most of the senators from Northern Virginia voted against the bill, which passed
21 to 19. However, Saslaw, Sen. Mary Margaret Whipple (D-Arlington) and Sen.
Janet D. Howell (D-Fairfax) voted for it.

Howell said she supported it because the building industry, which backed the
bill, made concessions by increasing the fees by 50 percent over an earlier
proposal and excluding Reston Town Center, Tysons Corner and other areas slated
for urban redevelopment from the change.

"I wasn't going to support it unless they met my demands," she said. "But I
negotiated in good faith, and when they made those adjustments, I felt I had to
support them."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· A Feb. 13 Metro article about the Virginia General Assembly
incorrectly identified Sen. R. Edward Houck (D- Spotsylvania) as a Republican.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Tending the American Melting Pot;
U.S. Promotes Assimilation Through Teaching of Political Values and English

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 696 words


When discussing lofty concepts such as "rule of law," it helps to use real-world
examples. So as Alfonso Aguilar spoke to a class of Vietnamese immigrants
prepping for the U.S. citizenship test yesterday,  he noted that in his parents'
homelands -- Costa Rica and Italy -- people view stop signs as
"recommendations," not mandates.

"Just like us in Vietnam," said Lam Phan, 59, a waiter, drawing chuckles from
his classmates at the Long Branch Community Center in Silver Spring.

The mood was light. But to Aguilar, the classroom was no less than a front in an
"assimilation movement for the 21st century." As chief of the U.S. Office of
Citizenship, Aguilar has spearheaded a new federal initiative to get immigrants
to embrace English and American political values at a time of surging
immigration -- a trend that he warned could lead to a "country of enclaves."

"This swelling is going to continue," Aguilar said in an interview before the
class. "This is just to take preemptive action to make sure the process of
integration continues."

The government has launched a Web site that offers information to immigrants on
benefits, English classes and volunteer work. It has  provided training for
civics teachers and distributed thousands of citizenship "tool kits," with flash
cards and booklets, to libraries, community centers and faith-based groups.

The idea, Aguilar said, is not to ask immigrants to shed their cultures but to
help them adopt American political values.

"We want to encourage people to celebrate their roots but at the same time to
develop roots to their communities," he said.

Immigrants are applying for citizenship,  which experts call one benchmark of
integration, at record levels.  Almost 1.4 million people applied in fiscal
2007, double the figure for the previous year. Officials attribute the surge to
an application fee increase, coming elections, citizenship drives and debate
over immigration.

But some experts say  the immigration debate has snuffed political will to fund
an aggressive integration effort. Aguilar's office, created in 2004 within U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, has a budget of $4.3 million and a staff
that recently expanded from seven to 15. An immigration bill that failed in the
Senate last year would have allocated $100 million to the office, Aguilar said.

Aguilar said more resources would help, but he dismissed the  idea of a "massive
entitlement" program. He said the government would do better to use its "bully
pulpit" to encourage "creative partnerships" such as one in Las Vegas, where
hoteliers  cooperate with a culinary union to teach English to immigrant
employees.

Yesterday, Aguilar showed a video about the foundations of American democracy
and then  went to the front of the room to lead the class.

The students were mostly seniors whose English was still rocky, so an instructor
interpreted Aguilar's words. A handful were U.S. citizens who said they stuck
with the class to learn more English.

The class  greeted Aguilar's first questions with silence. Slowly, they warmed
up. When Aguilar asked why American politicians are accountable to the public, a
woman in a pink cardigan murmured, "We elect them, that's why."

Her name was Loc Nguyen, and she had recently become a citizen.

"You can tell she's a citizen. She could run for office," Aguilar said. Nguyen,
60, giggled.

When it came to selling American civic values, it was an easy crowd. All had
fled communist Vietnam. Some had been political prisoners; others were the
widows of such prisoners.

"I'm seeking my freedom," Gaithersburg resident Mai Tih Mang, 77, said in
Vietnamese.

"I came here also seeking my freedom," said Khiem Nguyen, 66, of Silver Spring.
He was in the Navy in pre-communist Vietnam, became a farmer after the fall of
Saigon and has been a dishwasher, grass cutter and mattress company employee
since arriving in the United States 15 years ago. He is scheduled to take his
citizenship test tomorrow.

"We're not allowed to do what we want to do in Vietnam, though we are Vietnamese
citizens," said Loc Nguyen of Silver Spring. "It's very different here. . . . I
am allowed to say whatever I want to say. Those are the key things."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By James A. Parcell For The Washington Post; Alfonso
Aguilar, chief of the U.S. Citizenship Office, talks to a class of Vietnamese
immigrants. Also shown are Huong Nguyen, left, Loc Nguyen and Lam Phan.
IMAGE; Khiem Nguyen, right, and Hoa Tran take part in the Silver Spring class.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 24, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Our Flagging Faith in the GOP

BYLINE: Samuel Rodriguez Jr.

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 1130 words


It's immigration, stupid.

That's the message from Hispanic faith voters -- the de facto swing vote in this
year's presidential election. The candidate who hears and heeds it may well win
the White House in November. And despite the patterns of the past, that
candidate may not be a Republican.

Hispanic evangelicals won't be squeezed into a Republican barrio. The question
in our hearts and minds this election season is this: Is the Republican Party
the party of xenophobia, nativism and anti-Latino demagoguery, or is it the
party of faith and family values, regardless of skin color or language
proficiency? Should we vote for Sen. John McCain because of his support for
comprehensive immigration reform, or should Latino evangelicals shy away from a
party that has refused to repudiate the polarizing and vicious rhetoric that has
accompanied the immigration debate.

Hispanic faith voters include both evangelical Christians and Catholic
charismatics. Many of us are the children of the Reagan  revolution, the Moral
Majority and the antiabortion movement. Where our parents championed the cause
of economic equality and supported the Democratic Party, our generation wanted
to connect the dots from the pulpit to the voting booth. Today, we also include
large numbers from Generation X and Generation Y, younger adults who speak both
Spanish and English fluently and hold strong social conservative beliefs but
also embrace populist economic policies.

Without Hispanic faith voters, George W. Bush never would have won Florida in
2000 and 2004. Today, we play a major role in such swing states as New Mexico,
Ohio, Arizona, Nevada and others. Without us, the Republican Party cannot
succeed in a national election.

Until recently, the GOP stood ready to capture more than 50 percent of the
Latino vote, thanks to evangelicals. In 2004, 44 percent of Hispanics voted for
Bush -- but among Hispanic Protestants (chiefly evangelicals), according to the
Pew Research Center, this figure was 56 percent. Last year,   a Pew survey
revealed that Latino evangelicals are twice as likely as Latino Catholics to
identify with the Republican Party (37 percent vs. 17 percent). And Latino
evangelicals are far more likely than Latino Catholics to describe themselves as
conservative (46 percent to 31 percent).

The Pew survey reveals a constituency even more conservative on social issues
than its white counterpart. Eighty-six percent of Hispanic evangelicals oppose
same-sex marriage, compared with 67 percent of white evangelicals. While 61
percent of white evangelicals oppose abortion, an overwhelming 77 percent of
Hispanic evangelicals repudiate the practice.

These factors alone would seem to make Hispanic faith voters a natural GOP
constituency, but in the past two presidential elections, we also can't deny the
Bush Factor. George W. Bush reached out to Hispanics like no other GOP candidate
in history. He matched Bill Clinton's "I feel your pain" outreach to the black
community with his "I speak your language" mantra. The border-state,
taco-eating, baseball-loving, broken-Spanish-speaking Texas governor resonated
with the Latino community. He wooed us as we had never been wooed, and argued
that we personify the idea of compassionate conservatism.

So why would these compassionate conservatives break away from the Republican
Party? Two years ago, meeting with former Senate majority leader Bill Frist,
then-Speaker Dennis Hastert and Sens. Trent Lott and John McCain, I expressed
the possible ramifications for the GOP if immigration-reform legislation did not
succeed. I predicted a definitive decline in Latino support in the 2006 midterm
elections. I was right. Support for Republican candidates among Hispanic faith
voters fell from 44 percent in 2004 to 27 percent in 2006.

Hispanic Christian voters overwhelmingly support an end to illegal immigration
and the protection of the borders. The great divide between us and the GOP is
over the question of what to do with the 12 million undocumented workers
currently in the United States. While Colorado Rep. Tom Tancredo and his
supporters last year  reinforced a xenophobic thread within the Republican
establishment, Hispanic faith voters fought for immigration reform that
reconciled the three pillars of our nation: the rule of law, our Judeo-Christian
values system and the pursuit of the American Dream.

But we have learned that our white brothers and sisters who believe in a
pro-family agenda also embrace a predominantly anti-immigration-reform agenda.
Reina Olmeda, a Pentecostal Latina pastor, expressed the sentiment of many
Hispanic evangelicals: "We're caught between the proverbial rock and the hard
place. We either vote for a party that resonates with our beliefs but does not
want us, or with a party that wants us but does not resonate with our beliefs."

So, with much trepidation, the Hispanic faith voter is looking to the Democratic
Party for a viable alternative. Although Hispanic evangelicals align with the
social values platform of the GOP, the Democrats can easily capitalize on a
kindred constituency when it comes to economic and social justice issues. While
most white evangelicals limit their political agenda to abortion and marriage
issues, Hispanic evangelicals embrace a broader agenda that also includes
health-care and education reform, alleviating poverty, help for Darfur and
HIV/AIDS, climate change and immigration reform.

But chiefly, it's because immigration reform failed in the Senate last June that
the Democrats stand poised to make significant inroads into the Hispanic values
vote. That failure could be to the national GOP what the passage of the
anti-immigration Proposition 187 was to  the GOP in California in 1994, when
then-Gov. Pete Wilson's support alienated Hispanic voters.

The greatest indicator of the trouble between Republicans and Hispanic faith
voters are the actions of diehard Republican operative Rev. Mark Gonzalez of
Dallas. Last week, Gonzalez captured the collective disappointment of the
Hispanic community when he said that his primary objective in this election
cycle is to register voters in the 10 states with the largest Hispanic
population. He doesn't care, he says, whether they vote Democrat or Republican,
as long they vote -- and demonstrate that Latino Christians represent a
meaningful, and valuable, constituency.

In the end, Hispanic evangelicals are married to neither the Christian right nor
the Christian left. We are the standard-bearers of Christian equilibrium. And
this fall, we may force both the Democrats and the Republicans to move to the
center to capture the Latino vote.

hispanicchurch@aol.com

Samuel Rodriguez Jr. is president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership
Conference, an organization of Hispanic evangelicals.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Jessica Rinaldi -- Reuters; Waiting to be counted: Latinos
who want to vote in the presidential election protest delays in their
citizenship applications in Dallas on Jan. 28.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Agency Accused of Illegal Searches

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 331 words


A privately convened commission of labor and immigrant advocates held the first
of several planned nationwide hearings yesterday to publicize allegations that
U.S. immigration officials routinely violate constitutional protections against
unreasonable search and seizure during workplace raids.

At the gathering at the Hay-Adams hotel in the District, witnesses and members
of the 10-person panel accused Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials of
using arrest warrants for a limited number of illegal immigrants who work at a
given company as a pretext to detain the entire workforce, including many U.S.
citizens, while agents determine whether there are additional illegal immigrants
among them.

"Tens of millions of workers in America go to work every day without . . . an
awareness that at their workplaces, without any warning, they could be swept up
in a massive raid conducted by heavily armed government agents," said Joe
Hansen, president of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
and chairman of the National Commission on ICE Misconduct and Violations of 4th
Amendment Rights. "Workers are not aware that they could be detained at
gunpoint. That they could be handcuffed. . . . That they could be denied any
contact with family members or legal counsel."

The commission heard testimony from two workers who are U.S. citizens who said
they were detained for several hours during an ICE raid of six Swift meatpacking
plants in December 2006. The union has filed a class action on their behalf.

Afterward, Pat Reilly, an ICE spokeswoman who attended the hearing as an
observer, said the agency's procedures for questioning workers during raids at
businesses are fair and humane and have been routinely upheld by courts.

"I would imagine that some people may be detained beyond what they feel is
reasonable. But it's subjective," she said. "What we're trying to do is get to
the bottom of who has the right to be here and who might be posing as a U.S.
citizen."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

DISTRICT BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 602 words

2007 IMMIGRATION RALLY

N.J. Man Pleads Guilty to Weapons Charges

 A New Jersey man who brought knives and a rifle to an immigration rights rally
in the District last year pleaded guilty yesterday to weapons charges in D.C.
Superior Court, authorities said.

Tyler Froatz, 24, was arrested at the May 1 rally after he got in a fight with
people angered by anti-immigrant signs he had posted. Police said they found two
knives and a loaded flare gun in his backpack and an unregistered .30-caliber
rifle in his vehicle. At a D.C. apartment he was renting, police said, they
found seven unregistered firearms, a cache of ammunition and a molotov cocktail.

Court guidelines call for a prison term of 6 to 24 months in his case, the U.S.
attorney's office said. Judge James E. Boasberg scheduled sentencing for May 5.

-- Paul Duggan

SUPERIOR COURT

Dignitaries' Wills Are Placed on Display

 Copies of the wills of District dignitaries are scheduled to go on display
today at the D.C. Superior Court's Building A on the third floor of the Probate
Division at 515 Fifth St. NW.

Thirteen wills, many of them handwritten, are scheduled for display. Among them
are wills from inventor Alexander Graham Bell, former presidents Grover
Cleveland, James Monroe, Woodrow Wilson and James Madison and Madison's wife,
Dolley. There is a will by abolitionist Frederick Douglass, who left $20,000 in
cash and bonds and 15 acres in Anacostia to his wife, Helen. Also displayed is
the will of Euphemia Lofton Haynes, the nation's first black woman to earn a
doctorate in mathematics.

-- Keith L. Alexander

NATIONALS PARK

Team Is Told It Must Pay for Contested Items

 The District does not have to pay for about $4.2 million in design items that
the Nationals baseball team had said should be the city's responsibility at the
new Nationals Park, soon to open on South Capitol Street SE.

A private arbitration panel engaged by the city and the team ruled yesterday
that the Nationals should cover the added costs.

The money involved is a small portion of the overall budget for the ballpark,
which is about $611 million, and has not been an obstacle to the ballpark's
completion. The D.C. Sports and Entertainment Commission, which owns the
ballpark and leases it to the Nationals, "is looking forward to completing the
new ballpark within the cost cap and in time for opening day," commission chief
executive Gregory A. O'Dell said in a statement.

-- Daniel LeDuc

INTERSTATE 295

Police Identify Pedestrian Killed in Crash

A pedestrian who was killed early yesterday while crossing Interstate 295 was
identified by D.C. police yesterday as Charlie King.

King, who lived in the 400 block of Burbank Street SE, was struck just after
midnight near the East Capitol Street exit by a Mercedes sport-utility vehicle
traveling south on the highway. The 69-year-old was taken to Washington Hospital
Center, where he was pronounced dead.

The driver of the SUV was uninjured. A preliminary investigation indicated that
the driver was not at fault, police said.

-- Elissa Silverman

NORTHEAST CRIME

Shooting Victim Was a 40-Year-Old NW Man

D.C. police identified a man fatally shot early yesterday in Northeast
Washington as Orville Lennox Fuller, 40.

Officers responding to the report of an accident in the Brookland neighborhood
just after midnight found Fuller in a car in the 2500 block of Randolph Street
NE. He was shot several times, a police spokesman said.

Fuller, of the 500 block of Kenyon Street NW, was pronounced dead at Washington
Hospital Center.

Anyone with information about the case is asked to call police at 202-727-9099.

-- Elissa Silverman

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 5, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

A Check on Name Checks;
How useful are FBI background reviews for green-card applicants?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 502 words


THANKS to a new fee structure, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services faces a
backlog of 140,000 green-card applications. To reduce the backlog, the agency
said it will give green cards to many  people who are in the country legally
without first completing required FBI background checks. If these FBI checks
don't contribute to national security, this new rule's ability to safely and
expediently improve the lives of tens of thousands of law-abiding immigrants is
commendable. But if the checks do contribute to national security,  skipping
them will  have been a terrible decision. The problem is that USCIS hasn't
investigated to find out.

Currently, green-card applicants must undergo three background checks: checks
against fingerprint databases, consolidated federal law enforcement databases
and FBI investigative files (called name checks). Ninety percent of FBI name
checks are completed within 60 days, according to the FBI. The remaining 10
percent can wait years while the FBI locates paper files scattered around dozens
of field offices.

Under the new rules, to take effect in mid-March, a green-card applicant  whose
name check has been  pending for more than 180 days will automatically get
approval if  the applicant has cleared every step but the FBI  name check. If
the  name-check process, which would continue, later yields information that
should be acted on, the green card would be revoked and the person deported.
USCIS argues that this rule affects only people  who would be living in the
United States anyway while awaiting their green cards, and so it will promote
expediency without harming national security.

For practical reasons, it's harder for USCIS to revoke a green card than to deny
one in the first place. Thus the new rule could potentially allow permanent
residency for  dangerous immigrants  who would otherwise have been denied green
cards. USCIS says "anecdotal" evidence suggests the "majority" of name checks
don't turn up negative information that would affect the status of applicants,
so the risk of this happening is remote. But since the agency has no statistics
about how many bad actors were caught through name checks  after not being
flagged through the other required background checks, it doesn't actually know
what additional national security risk, if any, the new rule will present.

The usefulness of putting every applicant for a green card (and for
naturalization) through this third background check has been questioned before
by immigrant advocacy groups and USCIS's own ombudsman. (FBI spokesman Bill
Carter said only that "our position is that we have no position" on whether
USCIS's new rule will affect national security.) Rather than adopting a
tough-sounding process and then disregarding it, USCIS needs to do a thorough
assessment of whether this third check yields valuable information. If FBI name
checks are effective, USCIS should demand the resources needed to  perform them.
If they're not, it shouldn't. Officials can't have it both ways.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Counting Down to May 6 Vote;
With Filing Deadline Past, Races Gear Up in N.Va. Towns

BYLINE: Kristen Mack and Bill Turque; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 781 words


Two years after an election dominated by bitter divisions over the impact of
illegal immigration, the races for Herndon mayor and Town Council are focused on
other issues.

The future of downtown development and a budget shortfall driven by a poor
housing market are near the top of the agenda in the May 6 contests. Voters in
several other Northern Virginia cities and towns also will go to the polls that
day to select mayors, town councils and school boards. Tuesday was the filing
deadline for races in the area of Fairfax, Loudoun and Prince William counties.
Unless otherwise noted, the seats are nonpartisan.

Stephen J. DeBenedittis unseated Michael L. O'Reilly as mayor of Herndon in 2006
in what was widely viewed as voter backlash against a government-subsidized
day-laborer center the town opened in 2005. The center was designed to give
immigrant workers a place to gather and seek employment. But after much debate,
it was closed last year.

DeBenedittis faces opposition from council member J. Harlon Reece, who said he
has grown troubled by the divisions over the immigration issue. Also in
contention is businessman Jasbinder Singh.

Ten candidates are vying for six council seats. They include four members
elected in 2006: Connie Haines Hutchinson, David A. Kirby, William B. Tirrell
Sr. and Charlie D. Waddell. Dennis D. Husch also is seeking reelection. The
challengers are Richard F. Downer, Penny Halpern, Arthur Nachman, Sheila Olem
and James A. Vickery.

Downer, who served on the council from 1971 to 1974 and 1990 to 2000, said that
although illegal immigration remains an issue in Herndon -- day laborers seeking
work have returned to the streets -- other issues, such as downtown development
and the town's finances, need attention. "We can't afford for it to be the
dominant issue anymore," he said.

In Fairfax City, 11 candidates will compete for six City Council seats. They
include incumbents Joan W. Cross, Jeffrey C. Greenfield, Gary J. Rasmussen and
Patrice M. Winter. The challengers are Daniel F. Drummond, William G. Foster,
Kim Luckabaugh, David L. Meyer, W. Randy Myers, Gerald T. O'Dell and Steven C.
Stombres. Mayor Robert F. Lederer is seeking reelection. He faces Cristina Lee
Gaines and Rosemary F. McDowell.

In Vienna and Clifton, incumbents face no opposition.

Some of the most heated contests in the Loudoun area are in Purcellville, where
Mayor Robert W. Lazaro Jr. is being challenged by former Town Council member
Karl R. Phillips. Lazaro defeated Phillips in 2006.

Phillips leads a slate of three Town Council candidates who have pledged to drop
a lawsuit against the county over its plans to build a high school at Fields
Farm. Six candidates, including two incumbents, are running for three council
seats.

Lazaro has opposed the school, saying it would violate a 1995 land-use agreement
that requires town approval of the school's construction. He called Phillips a
"one-issue candidate" and said that although a new school is needed to relieve
crowding, allowing the county to violate its agreement with the town would set a
bad precedent.

"A contract is a contract," said Lazaro, who wants the county to pay for road
and utility improvements to offset the impact of a new school. "The campaign is
not about the high school. It's about leadership and judgment."

Phillips said that the lawsuit, which has reached the state Supreme Court, has
strained relations between the town and county and that it does not have a
"legal leg to stand on."

"The consequences are obvious: The relationship between the town and the county
is horrible," Phillips said. "I think it's the main concern people have in
Purcellville. . . . I just think it's a huge waste of money."

Lovettsville also has a contested mayoral race. Richard T. Greene is challenging
incumbent Elaine D. Walker.

In Manassas, no Democrats have filed  for the three City Council seats up for
election or for mayor. The makeup of the council will not change much;  one
newcomer is running for office.

In January, a Republican nominating convention chose a three-member slate that
emphasized "practical" and "sensible" solutions to the city's problems,
including immigration, which has been the dominant issue in Prince William area
government and politics since 2006.

Manassas Mayor Douglas Waldron is stepping down. He will be replaced by Vice
Mayor Harry J. "Hal" Parrish II.

Incumbents Jonathan L. Way and Steven S. Smith and newcomer Mark D. Wolfe are
running for the seats up for election on the six-member council. Council members
are elected to four-year terms.

Dumfries, Haymarket, Occoquan and Quantico also have contested council races.

Staff writer Jonathan Mummolo contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
March 2-8

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 641 words

Assembly Approves Mental Health Bills Alliance Official Says Reforms Need More
Funds

In the belief that reform can come from tragedy, the Virginia House and Senate
have voted to overhaul the state's mental health system, and Gov. Timothy M.
Kaine (D) supports the measures.

Spurred by April's slayings at Virginia Tech by a mentally ill student, the
General Assembly approved a package of bills that would give families and courts
more flexibility in having the mentally ill involuntarily committed, among other
changes.

But experts say Virginia is merely catching up other states, and some believe
more action is needed.

"You can pass sophisticated commitment-standard changes, but if you don't fund
the treatment opportunities and resources, that doesn't get you to where you
need to go," said Michael Fitzpatrick of the National Alliance on Mental
Illness.

Pr. William Begins Immigration Checks Latinos Worried Despite Police's
Assurances

Now that police in Prince William County can check people's immigration status
for even minor infractions, many Hispanics -- here either legally or illegally
-- say they feel targeted.

"We are telling people to drive perfectly, not to spit or jaywalk, and not to
carry anything in a brown paper bag," said Nancy Lyhall, a volunteer with the
local pro-immigrant group Mexicans Without Borders. "They should be the model of
model citizens."

County Police Chief Charlie T. Deane vowed to enforce the law fairly and not to
stop people on the basis of race or ethnic appearance. He also said that if a
driver who has been pulled over doesn't have a valid U.S. license, "it's much
more likely now that police will notify" immigration officials.

Non-Hybrids Might Cost Arlingtonians Tax Rebate Amount Slips in Budget Proposal


As Arlington County strives to go "green," it might end up costing many
residents a few greenbacks.

County manager Ron Carlee has proposed reducing the personal-property-tax rebate
to those who own conventional cars from 33 to 30 percent. Since last year, the
owners of most hybrid cars have been eligible for a 100 percent rebate, which
can save more than $500.

"The non-hybrids are going to end up complaining, and I can't blame them," said
Toyota Prius owner Robert Howe.

The rebate money comes from a state car-tax relief fund. Under Carlee's plan,
drivers of conventional cars would get about $29 less than last year, because
the amount available from the state hasn't changed, so a bigger slice of the pie
would go to hybrid drivers. More than 2,000 hybrids are registered in Arlington,
about twice as many as two years ago.

Reins Tightening on Payday Loans Approved Bills Cap Interest, Limit Borrowing

The General Assembly wants to make payday loans tougher for both borrowers and
lenders.

Measures overwhelmingly approved by the House and Senate would be the most
restrictive in the country if they are signed by Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), who
has made payday lending reforms a priority, lawmakers and industry officials
said.

The bill limits borrowers to one loan at a time, restricts how many they can get
in a year and gives them more time to repay the money. It also caps interest
rates at 36 percent, although other fees would climb when borrowers take out
cash advances against their paychecks.

Va. Government Commended -- Mostly Think Tank Says Infrastructure Is Lagging

Virginia's state government has just gotten the equivalent of a gold star.

According to the Pew Center on the States and Governing Magazine, the state
government shares a spot at the top, with a grade of A-minus, in a ranking of
efficiency and effectiveness. Utah and Washington state got the same grade.

But the raters found one area in which improvement is definitely needed:
infrastructure. "In a state blessed with . . . careful planning, Virginia's
infrastructure management is playing catch-up," the report says.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By David Grace -- Kingsport Times News Via Associated Press;
Returning to the Wreckage Clinton "Steve" Johnson salvages some belongings after
high winds destroyed his home in Big Stone Gap, Va., on Wednesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 17, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Airport Bottlenecks

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 190 words


My wife and I just returned from Costa Rica, a country of 4 million people,
where we were processed in and out  quickly and professionally. Then we arrived
home in the United States, where we waited in an immigration line for over an
hour at Dulles International Airport. More than 200 passengers were divided into
two lines, one for U.S. citizens and permanent residents and the other for
visitors. A single agent processed the longer line, for citizens and residents.
It took three to five minutes to process each permanent resident and about 60
seconds for each citizen.

Meanwhile, two customs agents staffed the door of the baggage area. In a booth
outside, a third said that delays are frequent because of budget cuts. Friends
from our church group who returned a week earlier experienced longer waits. It
took them 30 minutes to get a customs supervisor who responded to their
complaints by saying, "What you see is what you get."

Why was only one immigration agent processing more than 100 U.S. citizens and
residents, causing an inevitable bottleneck? Why aren't citizens processed
first? Where was that agent's supervisor?

JACK TARR

McLean

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 24, 2008 Monday
                                 Every Edition

Trading Places;
Prince George's Seeks to Foster Business Connections in Africa

BYLINE: Anita Huslin; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 650 words


Over the past two decades, Prince George's County has evolved as a gateway for
African immigrants to the American middle class. Now the county is building a
bridge to their homelands that it hopes will lead to new business.

Before a room packed with politicians, bureaucrats and members of the local
business community, County Executive Jack B. Johnson last week announced the
creation of a new Africa Trade Office. Partially funded by a $400,000 grant from
the Small Business Administration, the office will serve as a matchmaker between
African and local businesses, sharing information, expertise and financial
incentives, when possible, with businesses that want to engage in international
trade.

"It's happening now because it can," said Johnson, who enlisted U.S. Sen.
Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) in acquiring the funding. Since his first campaign
for county executive six years ago, Johnson has reached out to immigrants,
backing Latino day-laborer centers, Indian merchants and tech firms, and African
small businesses.

In his second term, he has made trade-oriented visits to India, Senegal, Gambia,
Nigeria and Tanzania. He's invited members of African business groups to join
him: the African Business Owners' Forum, the African Business Roundtable and the
Association of Maryland Africa Societies.

"Africa is the last emerging market on the face of the planet," said Remi
Duyile, president of Image Consulting Group and treasurer of the African
Business Owners' Forum. She traveled to Nigeria with Johnson's entourage last
fall, and was inspired by the meetings with government officials and businesses
that were eager to work with Americans.

"It's an opportunity for us, especially in Prince George's County," Duyile said.
"We want to be partakers of this, rather than just observers."

Kimberly Ann Elliott, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, said
the United States' perception of Africa has not kept up with economic and
political progress. But, while international trade programs can be useful as
promotions, they generally yield modest, if any, immediate commerce, she said.

Prince George's is the only county in Maryland to have an Africa Trade Office.
As the largest and wealthiest black-majority jurisdiction in the country, it is
a logical place, Johnson said, to establish programs that capitalize on the
African Growth and Opportunity Act, which lowered trade barriers between the
United States and 37 African nations.

The volume of U.S. trade with Africa is small but growing, and local business
owners suggested that even modest local stimulus programs can yield results.

"America is missing the party in helping to develop Africa," said Wilson
Adewole, a broker for Bonview Mortgage who was born in Nigeria but has lived in
Maryland for more than half of his life.

"Our dream is to take an American business idea and take it over to Africa and
expand it," Adewole said. "We know how to do business in Africa . . . we can
bridge that [cultural] gap very quickly. The bottom line is for everyone to make
a buck in the community they serve."

Patricia Hayes-Parker, a vice president of the Prince George's County Economic
Development Corp., will oversee the new trade office. Last week, she began a
seven-week training course for local companies interested in doing business in
Africa. With new staff, the trade office will create a Web site with information
about business opportunities on the African continent and grant programs for
future trade missions.

"This is necessary because you know African markets do represent an
above-average risk," Hayes-Parker said. "But if our companies are prepared, if
they understand the culture, the politics, the business practices there, then
there truly is a chance of success."

The trade office will buy industry research databases and help screen African
companies to ensure they are ready to engage in work in the county, she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Marvin Joseph -- The Washington Post; County Executive Jack
B. Johnson's first-in-Maryland trade initiative to Africa drew $400,000 from the
SBA.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Bad Judgment;
Labeling a close U.S. ally a terrorist organization, Immigration leaves a
dedicated Iraqi translator in limbo.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 443 words


IT'S HARD to imagine a refugee from Iraq more deserving of residence in the
United States than Saman Kareem Ahmad. The 38-year-old Kurd lost his family
during Saddam Hussein's genocidal chemical attack against his home town of
Halabja in 1988; for the last several years, his de facto family has been the
U.S. Marine Corps, for which he bravely served as a translator in Fallujah.
Driven out of Iraq by death threats in 2006, he was admitted to the United
States under a special visa program for translators and granted asylum. He now
provides instruction for Marines headed to Iraq from the base in Quantico.

Yet, as recounted by The Post's Karen DeYoung on Sunday, Mr. Ahmad's application
for permanent residence in the United States was denied last month by U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. The pretext was patently absurd: Mr. Ahmad
had once served in the militia of the Kurdish Democratic Party (KDP), which
USCIS officials deemed an "undesignated terrorist organization" because it had
fought against the Iraqi government -- the government, that is, of Saddam
Hussein. Left out of the USCIS calculations were the facts that the KDP is one
of the few unambiguously pro-American forces in Iraq; that the group does not
appear on any U.S. government list of terrorists; and that the KDP's military
activities against Saddam were encouraged and materially supported by the United
States.

The deputy director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Jonathan "Jock"
Scharfen, acknowledges that his agency's decision "does not appear to make much
common sense." Until recently, language in the Immigration and Nationality Act
virtually compelled a finding that the KDP and similarly pro-American
organizations were "terrorists"; legislation allowing such groups to be cleared
was passed in December, but a review of the KDP has not been completed. In the
meantime, Mr. Scharfen said, the case of Mr. Ahmad is "on hold." But the
homeland security secretary is empowered to grant waivers to individuals;
Secretary Michael Chertoff should act immediately in this instance.

The larger story here concerns the Bush administration's shoddy treatment of
Iraqis who have put their lives on the line to support U.S. forces during the
last five years. Only 50 visas per year for Iraqi and Afghan translators were
allocated beginning in 2006; the number was increased to 500 for this fiscal
year, but will revert to 50 in 2009, even though 648 translators had
applications pending as of December. Not every Iraqi who has helped the United
States needs to be admitted to this country or be granted a green card. But
cases such as that of Mr. Ahmad shame this country.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Online, a Violent View of Islam;
Anti-Immigration Dutch Lawmaker Characterizes His Film as 'Tough Reality'

BYLINE: Molly Moore; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 835 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, March 27


A Dutch lawmaker known for his outspoken opposition to immigration posted a
graphic film depicting Islam as a religion of violence on a maverick
video-sharing Web site Thursday night after government and religious officials
spent weeks trying to prevent its release.

The 15-minute film splices verses from the Koran with videos of mutilated
bombing victims, the World Trade Center attack, the beheading of a man by masked
gunmen and an Afghan woman draped in a pleated blue burqa being shot in the
head.

"It is not a provocation, it is tough reality -- a reality that some Muslims
might not find comfortable," Geert Wilders, a member of the Netherlands'
far-right Party for Freedom, told reporters after the Web site LiveLeak.com
received so many hits within the first hour of posting the film that the video
temporarily froze. "I think I have made a very decent film, within the
boundaries of the law. This is a call for debate; that is how people should
respond."

Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende had warned Wilders that the film, called
"Fitna," the Arabic word for chaos or strife, could imperil the country's
national interests and endanger its soldiers and other citizens abroad. In
recent weeks, news that the film would soon be released set off violent protests
in Afghanistan, Pakistan and other predominantly Muslim countries.

"We believe it serves no purpose other than to cause offense," Balkenende said
at a news conference soon after the video was posted on the Internet. "But
feeling offended should never be used as an excuse for aggression and threats."

European officials have expressed concern that the film could ignite the kind of
worldwide demonstrations that followed the publication of cartoons in Danish
newspapers in 2005 ridiculing the prophet Muhammad. In an audiotape released
last week, Osama bin Laden warned Europeans that they faced "severe reckoning"
if they continued to defame Islam's holy prophet.

Mohamed Rabbae, chairman of the moderate National Moroccan Council in the
Netherlands, appealed to Muslims to "react calmly and within law" after viewing
the video.

"The pictures are horrible and very bloody," Rabbae said in an interview. "It is
a film according to the ideology of Mr. Wilders -- he always tries to make a
link between violence and the Koran."

Dutch television stations had refused to air the film, and Wilders was unable to
find a venue to screen it in the Netherlands because of the prohibitively costly
expense of security. The U.S. Internet provider that Wilders used to advertise
the film suspended its Web site last week.

The U.N. Human Rights Council adopted a resolution Thursday deploring the use of
the media to "incite acts of violence, xenophobia or related intolerance and
discrimination towards Islam" or other religions.

But early Thursday evening, LiveLeak.com, a site based in the United Kingdom
that specializes in running raw videos from the battlefields of Afghanistan, as
well as crime footage from around the world, posted "Fitna."

"There was no legal reason to refuse Geert Wilders the right to post his film
(Fitna) on LiveLeak.com and it is not our place to censor people based on an
emotive response," the Web site said in a statement posted next to the video.
"To many of us involved in LiveLeak.com some of the messages therein are
personally offensive. . . . Our being offended is no reason to deny Mr. Wilders
the right to have his film seen."

Within minutes of its release on the Internet, Dutch television aired clips from
"Fitna," and the film dominated the nightly news.

Paul Scheffer, a professor of urban sociology at the University of Amsterdam,
said that "in principle, criticism of the Koran or radical Islam is part of an
open society. The problem with Wilders is he has linked that with limiting the
freedom of Muslims in this country; he not only criticizes the Koran, he wants
to ban the Koran."

Wilders's personal Web site carries a banner that declares, "Stop the
Islamization of the Netherlands." The government has assigned bodyguards to
protect Wilders because of death threats against him.

The Netherlands, like most other Western European nations, is in the midst of a
divisive struggle over national identity in the face of large-scale immigration
in recent decades. The debate has been particularly pronounced in the
Netherlands, which has long enjoyed a reputation as a liberal, open society that
allowed personal freedoms.

In 2004, Dutch filmmaker Theo Van Gogh was murdered in Amsterdam by an extremist
after he released a short film criticizing Islam's treatment of women.

On Friday, a Dutch court is scheduled to hear a petition by the Dutch Islamic
Federation seeking a review of whether Wilders's film violates hate-speech laws.

The case was filed before Wilders's film was released and was based on numerous
public remarks the lawmaker has made describing the prophet Muhammad as "a
barbarian" and comparing the Koran to Hitler's "Mein Kampf."

Special correspondent Merel Boers in Amsterdam contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Fred Ernst -- Associated Press; Protesters
demonstrated last week in Amsterdam against the film, which was posted yesterday
by a Web site in Britain after attempts to block its release.
IMAGE; Geert Wilders titled his film "Fitna," the Arabic word for chaos or
strife. The prime minister told him that it could endanger Dutch soldiers and
citizens.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 2, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Help for Haiti;
The U.S. should temporarily stop deportations.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 523 words


THE UNITED STATES occasionally grants immigrants from countries in extreme
economic or political turmoil "temporary protected status," or TPS, which means
U.S.  removals to those countries will stop for  a specified period.  The
designation is given to people from countries or parts of countries that have
ongoing armed conflicts,  recent environmental disasters or other conditions
that prevent nationals from being returned home safely.

On all these fronts, Haiti is a slam dunk. The poorest country in the Western
Hemisphere, it has been battered  perennially by political instability,
financial hardship, violence, hurricanes, earthquakes, AIDS, bad luck and worse
leadership. The U.S. State Department warns  Americans  who are visiting Haiti
about the "chronic danger of violent crime," all the while repatriating Haitians
to a death zone. Still, when Haiti applied in 2004 for TPS, it was turned down
for undisclosed reasons. Last month, Haitian President RenÃ© PrÃ©val wrote to
President Bush requesting TPS  for Haitians who are unlawfully in the United
States, and Mr. Bush should  grant the request.

Suspending deportations would allow Haiti to spend its limited resources on
economic and political reconstruction rather than on social services for
deported people. In Haiti's fragile economy, remittances from nationals abroad
equal about a quarter of the country's gross domestic product. Allowing Haitian
nationals to temporarily stay in the United States, in other words, would be a
sort of cheap foreign aid, leaving undisturbed one of the few things keeping the
country afloat. This is not just a humanitarian issue, though the misery there
makes a compelling case; stability in Haiti, which is only  a boat trip from
Florida's coastline, is in America's interest, too.

Critics contend that granting temporary protected status to Haiti will open the
floodgates to more undocumented Haitian immigrants. But TPS  applies only to a
country's nationals who are already in  the United States at the time TPS is
declared, and the burden of proof is on them to verify their eligibility. TPS
designations given to Somalia, Burundi, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras and
Sudan don't seem to have enabled more illegal immigration from those countries.

Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (D-Fla.) has introduced legislation to extend TPS to
Haitians, and the proposal has obtained bipartisan support from politicians
across his state, which has the largest  Haitian-born population in the country.
Immigration policy is too radioactive right now for anything to happen on
Capitol  Hill. Fortunately, under current law, TPS can be granted by the
executive branch alone if the president feels a country would benefit from
having some time to breathe. While a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services would say only that Mr. PrÃ©val's letter is "being
evaluated," we hope Mr. Bush will take a positive stand. After all, on March
17, Citizenship and Immigration Services  renewed Somalia's TPS for another 18
months with little fanfare. The people of Haiti deserve the same generosity and
sympathy granted to other deserving countries.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 5, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Help Iraqi Refugees, Too

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 223 words


The argument for granting Haitian immigrants temporary protected status, or TPS,
outlined in an  April 2 editorial is fair and correct. However, the United
States should also be concerned with such status for Iraqi immigrants.

As an immigration attorney, I have witnessed the government's ongoing efforts to
deport Iraqi citizens.  Last year, the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for
Refugees requested a halt to all forcible repatriations  of Iraqi asylum
seekers;  last month, Amnesty International issued a similar request.

In January, the U.S. government enacted a measure allowing Iraqis whose asylum
applications were denied on or after March 1, 2003, to file motions to reopen
their cases; they must be filed by June.  This move aims to provide relief to
people who were denied asylum after the war began, based at least in part on the
notion that, with Saddam Hussein no longer in power, Iraq should be safe for
them.

While this measure provides an avenue of relief for some Iraqis, it does not go
far enough. The United States should heed the requests of the Office of the U.N.
High Commissioner  and Amnesty International. No Iraqis should be returned to
their country at this time. Iraqis in the United States should be granted
temporary protected status until conditions in their country have stabilized.

JASON A. DZUBOW

Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

In brief

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA02

LENGTH: 539 words

Books on Immigration In Arlington Reads

Immigration is the theme for this year's Arlington Reads, the Arlington Public
Library's annual initiative to promote reading and community dialogue.

From Sunday through May, Arlington Reads will offer a series of programs
exploring the concepts of arrival, assimilation and social justice. The program
is built around the featured title, "Brother, I'm Dying," Edwidge Danticat's
recent memoir of a family's exodus from Haiti and adjustment in the United
States.

Young people are encouraged to read Pam MuÃ±oz Ryan's "Esperanza Rising," a look
at assimilation through the eyes of a teenager forced to leave a privileged life
in Mexico to become a California farm worker.

Both books can be checked out from Arlington libraries in various formats.
Hundreds of copies also will be distributed for free at initial Arlington Reads
programs and through selected community organizations.

For information on related events, visit
http://www.arlingtonva.us/ArlingtonReads or any Arlington public library.

Arlington Home Expo Scheduled for Saturday

Arlington's Department of Community Planning, Housing and Development and the
Columbia Pike Revitalization Organization will host the second annual Arlington
Home Show and Expo on Saturday at the Walter Reed Community Center, 2909 S. 16th
St.

The event will include workshops and seminars  on topics such as home-purchasing
and home-improvement financing, Green Home Building for Health and Profit (in
Spanish) and Green Home Remodeling (in English).

For information, visit http://www.arlingtonhomeshow.org or call 703-228-3765.

Alexandria Library Gets New System Director

After conducting a nationwide search, the Alexandria Library Board has appointed
Rose T. Dawson  as the city's director of libraries. Dawson has been the deputy
director for three years.

Since 2005, Dawson has helped open the newly renovated Duncan library, launched
downloadable audiobooks, extended patrons' use of Internet computers and
expanded the children's summer reading program to include preschoolers, library
officials said in a news release. She also has supported such programs as One
Book, One City, a citywide book club.

Before coming to Alexandria, Dawson worked for the D.C. Public Library system,
where she managed grant projects and began a reading program that served more
than 5,000 teenagers.

Doggie Happy Hour At Hotel Monaco

Alexandria's Doggie Happy Hour will begin for the season on Tuesday as the Hotel
Monaco continues the tradition established by the Holiday Inn, which formerly
occupied the hotel in the 400 block of King Street.

Through October, the hotel and its Jackson 20 restaurant will host the event
from 5 to 8 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays in the courtyard. Complimentary dog
treats and water bowls will be available.

Alexandria Named A 2007 Tree City

The Arbor Day Foundation has named Alexandria a 2007 Tree City USA community in
honor of its commitment to community forestry. It is the 25th year that the city
has received the national recognition.

Alexandria, one of 50 Virginia communities so designated, met four criteria. The
community has a tree board or department, a tree-care ordinance and a
comprehensive forestry program, and it observes Arbor Day.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Alexandria-Arlington

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

59 Workers at Loudoun Resort Face Deportation;
Immigration Officials Say Employees Used Fraudulent or Stolen Documents to Get
Jobs

BYLINE: Jonathan Mummolo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 729 words


Fifty-nine foreign-born workers arrested last week at the Lansdowne Resort by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials are being processed for
deportation, although some might request hearings to plead their cases, an ICE
spokeswoman said.

The employees -- men and women from El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Honduras,
Bolivia, Peru and Argentina -- were arrested Tuesday on charges of having used
fraudulent or stolen documents to get jobs at the upscale resort on Woodridge
Parkway near Leesburg.

Several calls to Lansdowne Resort officials last week were not returned. ICE
spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs declined to comment on whether ICE officials think
the resort was aware of the document problems when it hired the workers. She
said operators of the resort have cooperated with the federal agency since the
investigation began in July.

"There's no criminal charges on the organization at this time . . . but this is
an ongoing investigation," Fobbs said.

The probe was triggered by a "routine inspection of all I-9 employment forms at
the resort," according to a written statement from ICE. "Through expert analysis
of the I-9 forms, ICE agents identified information that led them to suspect
that many of the employees were using fraudulent documents or had stolen someone
else's identity to secure employment at the resort."

Many workers remained in custody in various jails last week, said Fobbs, who
would not elaborate on the jail locations, citing "privacy reasons." ICE
released two women Tuesday for medical reasons, but their cases continued to be
processed, she said.

Fobbs said some of the workers will be deported immediately, and others might
request a hearing with a judge, so the time it takes to process cases will vary.

"The removal process is just that: a process," she said. "Some may be subject to
be removed from the United States immediately. Some may choose to go before an
immigration judge. . . . It's like anything else. If you have a traffic
violation, you can say, 'Wait, look, I have a reason for this.' "

Workers could be released early if they have children to look after, among other
reasons, although they would be electronically monitored, and their ultimate
fate would be determined by a judge, Fobbs said.

A senior regional official with the agency said Tuesday that the raid was a
signal to businesses that employing illegal immigrants will not be tolerated.

"Companies that use cheap, illegal alien labor as a business model should be on
notice that ICE is dramatically enhancing its enforcement efforts against
illegal employment schemes," said Mark X. McGraw, deputy special agent in charge
of the ICE office of investigations in Washington, in a written statement.

The 300-plus-room hotel and resort offers convention facilities, golf
tournaments and tours of nearby wineries. The detained employees were
dishwashers, maids, cooks and other low-level service workers, according to
immigrant advocacy groups who have been in touch with the workers' relatives.

Tony Howard, president of the Loudoun County Chamber of Commerce, said that such
workers generally are difficult for businesses to replace, given the high cost
of living in the area and the low salaries the jobs typically carry.

"It's a very tough job market," Howard said.

The raid came less than three weeks after ICE officials raided a construction
company office in Prince William County, arresting 34 Latin American nationals
on suspicion of being in the United States illegally.

Several advocacy groups have been working to help family members locate
Lansdowne workers in custody and to provide them with legal representation.

"They're terrified," said Elinor Tesfamariam, a lawyer with Immigration and
Human Rights Law Group in Manassas, referring to relatives of those arrested.
Her organization is working with the group Mexicans Without Borders to assist
the detainees. "I have a man who is 70 years old" and in poor health at one of
the jails, she said.

Other immigrant advocates said the process of locating those in custody has been
difficult because ICE is not keeping them in a central location.

"Literally, people need to call each detention center to try to find people,"
said Kathy Doan, executive director of the Capital Area Immigrants' Rights
Coalition.

Fobbs said family members and friends looking for information on those in
custody could call 866-341-3858.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

59 Workers Face Deportation;
Resort Employees Arrested Tuesday

BYLINE: Jonathan Mummolo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ01

LENGTH: 729 words


Fifty-nine foreign-born workers arrested last week at the Lansdowne Resort by
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials are being processed for
deportation, although some might request hearings to plead their cases, an ICE
spokeswoman said.

The employees -- men and women from El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Honduras,
Bolivia, Peru and Argentina -- were arrested Tuesday on charges of having used
fraudulent or stolen documents to get jobs at the upscale resort on Woodridge
Parkway near Leesburg.

Several calls to Lansdowne Resort officials last week were not returned. ICE
spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs declined to comment on whether ICE officials think
the resort was aware of the document problems when it hired the workers. She
said operators of the resort have cooperated with the federal agency since the
investigation began in July.

"There's no criminal charges on the organization at this time . . . but this is
an ongoing investigation," Fobbs said.

The probe was triggered by a "routine inspection of all I-9 employment forms at
the resort," according to a written statement from ICE. "Through expert analysis
of the I-9 forms, ICE agents identified information that led them to suspect
that many of the employees were using fraudulent documents or had stolen someone
else's identity to secure employment at the resort."

Many workers remained in custody in various jails last week, said Fobbs, who
would not elaborate on the jail locations, citing "privacy reasons." ICE
released two women Tuesday for medical reasons, but their cases continued to be
processed, she said.

Fobbs said some of the workers will be deported immediately, and others might
request a hearing with a judge, so the time it takes to process cases will vary.

"The removal process is just that: a process," she said. "Some may be subject to
be removed from the United States immediately. Some may choose to go before an
immigration judge. . . . It's like anything else. If you have a traffic
violation, you can say, 'Wait, look, I have a reason for this.' "

Workers could be released early if they have children to look after, among other
reasons, although they would be electronically monitored, and their ultimate
fate would be determined by a judge, Fobbs said.

A senior regional official with the agency said Tuesday that the raid was a
signal to businesses that employing illegal immigrants will not be tolerated.

"Companies that use cheap, illegal alien labor as a business model should be on
notice that ICE is dramatically enhancing its enforcement efforts against
illegal employment schemes," said Mark X. McGraw, deputy special agent in charge
of the ICE office of investigations in Washington, in a written statement.

The 300-plus-room hotel and resort offers convention facilities, golf
tournaments and tours of nearby wineries. The detained employees were
dishwashers, maids, cooks and other low-level service workers, according to
immigrant advocacy groups who have been in touch with the workers' relatives.

Tony Howard, president of the Loudoun County Chamber of Commerce, said that such
workers generally are difficult for businesses to replace, given the high cost
of living in the area and the low salaries the jobs typically carry.

"It's a very tough job market," Howard said.

The raid came less than three weeks after ICE officials raided a construction
company office in Prince William County, arresting 34 Latin American nationals
on suspicion of being in the United States illegally.

Several advocacy groups have been working to help family members locate
Lansdowne workers in custody and to provide them with legal representation.

"They're terrified," said Elinor Tesfamariam, a lawyer with Immigration and
Human Rights Law Group in Manassas, referring to relatives of those arrested.
Her organization is working with the group Mexicans Without Borders to assist
the detainees. "I have a man who is 70 years old" and in poor health at one of
the jails, she said.

Other immigrant advocates said the process of locating those in custody has been
difficult because ICE is not keeping them in a central location.

"Literally, people need to call each detention center to try to find people,"
said Kathy Doan, executive director of the Capital Area Immigrants' Rights
Coalition.

Fobbs said family members and friends looking for information on those in
custody could call 866-341-3858.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of U.s. Immigration And Customs Enforcement; The
Lansdowne workers arrested in a raid are charged with using fraudulent or stolen
documents to get jobs.
IMAGE; Courtesy Of Erica Garman; ICE investigated the workers for months. The
resort isn't charged.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 18, 2008 Friday
                                Regional Edition

CORRECTION

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 95 words


Â· An April 13 A-section article about a naturalization ceremony for U.S.
service members in Baghdad incorrectly said that 159 service members became U.S.
citizens. Immigration officials naturalized 259 troops from 71 countries.

CLARIFICATION

Â· In some April 17 editions, a Business article about Sallie Mae's quarterly
loss said the company began instituting new fees. The fees,

for originating federally backed Stafford student loans, are mandated by the
federal government. Sallie Mae previously paid the fees to the government on
behalf of students; it no longer will.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 20, 2008 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration Fight Has a New Target;
Stewart Hurts Pr. William's Prospects With Harsh Rhetoric, Some Say

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1518 words


When Prince William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart
dressed down the police chief for hosting a public meeting with the Mexican
consul to discuss the county's controversial immigration policy, Elena
Schlossberg-Kunkel was appalled.

Schlossberg-Kunkel, a Haymarket activist who had supported Stewart since 2006,
and several other county residents showed up at a recent board meeting and
demanded Stewart apologize to Chief Charlie T. Deane. Her voice pleading,
Schlossberg-Kunkel admonished Stewart for his harsh rhetoric on immigration,
which she said threatened to ruin the county's reputation.

"You were in my home for a fundraiser. I felt like I knew you," she said. "I
don't know the person you are anymore, Corey."

She is not alone in her concern. Elected officials and business leaders in
Prince William say they are worried that the county's focus on illegal
immigration is hurting Prince William's image at a critical time in its growth
and effort to remake itself.

Virginia's second-largest county had been known for years as a center of cheap
housing and bargain shopping. But in recent years, Prince William leaders have
tried to change course by attracting high-tech employers, building luxury homes
and supporting good schools much as neighboring Loudoun and Fairfax counties
have done.

Now, several supervisors in both parties and business leaders said, those
efforts could be set back if county officials do not shift their focus from
illegal immigration, which has divided the community and brought Prince William
negative national exposure. ("The Road to Dystopia," one newspaper said of the
crackdown.)

After a bitter, months-long debate, the eight-member board voted unanimously in
the fall to increase law enforcement and deny some services to illegal
immigrants. Although no one wants to repeal the policy, some supervisors and
other officials said they wish the county -- especially Stewart -- would stop
dwelling on it.

County business leaders have created "image committees" to examine the direction
Prince William is heading. Now, some analysts said, the economic downturn makes
it a bad time to carry out the immigration measures.

"It undermines the image of the county as a good place to invest," said Stephen
Fuller, director of the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University.
"The political environment has made people feel unwelcome."

Richard L. Hendershot, who chairs the Prince William County Greater Manassas
Chamber of Commerce, said it has been hard to sell Prince William as
progressive, dynamic and thriving.

"There's been a challenge. The only way that we can counteract the image, and
I'd say it is a false image, is to continue to look for opportunities to share
the positive messages of the county," he said. "There's clearly been some
controversy over the immigration stance that the board of supervisors has
taken."

Many blame Stewart (R), who put the county on the map nationally for its tough
approach on illegal immigration. As the top elected official, Stewart is the
most visible face of the county and nominally its biggest cheerleader. But his
colleagues and some residents are starting to question his leadership.

Stewart stunned Deane, the longtime county police chief, when he accused the
chief of overstepping his authority in setting up a public meeting with the
Mexican consul to discuss the immigration policy. Stewart said the Mexican
government was not part of the Prince William community, but Deane said he was
just trying to build trust among immigrants fearful about police conduct.

Supervisor Maureen S. Caddigan (R-Dumfries) said Stewart "roughshoded" the
immigration policy. "We're not doing it with sophistication and compassion. Our
board is divided. He's our leader, but he doesn't reach for consensus. He speaks
off the cuff. There's a brashness. I'm not sure how we curb that."

Stewart, who was elected to his first full term as chairman in November with 55
percent of the vote, is not fazed by the criticism. "They might not like my
style, but it's been successful."

To his critics, Stewart's rhetoric on illegal immigration, although direct,
comes off as intolerant in a diverse region that has assimilated thousands of
newcomers in the past 20 years.

"If you violate the law and we catch you, we are going to do everything we can
to have you deported," Stewart once said of immigrants.

He also called a group of county religious leaders "illegitimate" and
"misguided" when they offered to serve as intermediaries between elected
officials and the immigrant community. "They need to do what they do best: serve
their congregants and attend to their denominations and not get involved in
partisan politics," Stewart said.

He hasn't minced words about his colleagues, either, calling them "weak-kneed"
just before the vote on the policy in October. And he said he is not afraid to
"beat up on" elected officials in Prince William or other counties, as he did by
calling the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors lax on immigration.

"I'm not afraid to twist an arm or apply pressure," said Stewart, 39, who moved
to Prince William from Fairfax in 2001. "I prefer to work things out, but
sometimes you have to play hardball."

The board was recently locked in a battle with Stewart over what usually is a
routine matter: advertising a real estate tax rate for the coming year. It is
usually the starting point for discussion about the county budget.

Stewart wanted to have the debate before hearing from the public. He wouldn't
budge, and the board members were so frustrated with Stewart that they called a
special meeting to resolve the month-long stalemate by approving a higher rate
than Stewart advocated.

Nearly all local governments are weighing property tax increases this year to
cover budget shortfalls caused by a steep drop in revenue,  related to the
housing market's slump. Supervisor John D. Jenkins (D-Neabsco) said that some
increase in the tax rate will probably be necessary and that Stewart is missing
the impact of his recalcitrance.

"Our reputation among businesses and people wanting to relocate into the county
has suffered greatly," Jenkins said. Stewart "is unable to give and take. It's
his way or no way."

Stewart has defenders on the board, especially Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr.
(R-Gainesville), who helped push the immigration policy. But even Republicans
who sometimes align with Stewart, including W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville),
said: "We are more divided politically than ever before. The board is trying to
find out what its identity is."

Covington said Stewart is still figuring out how to lead. The chairman does not
always talk to each supervisor before board meetings to reach consensus.
Instead, Covington said, the supervisors often walk into a meeting not knowing
what their stance will be on county issues.

"He should figure out where the compromises need to be made to get specific
legislation through," Covington said.

That's legitimate criticism, Stewart said. "I should do more of that. But
reaching out doesn't mean agreeing with them. That's never going to happen. I'm
not going to agree for the purposes of collegiality."

The board and Stewart are also split over the $6.4 million cost of the
immigration policy, which covers installing video cameras in police cars to
protect the county from allegations of racial profiling.

Stewart said he does not think the county should pay for the cameras in a tight
budget year, and he hopes a federal grant will fund them. He also does not
support a fully staffed police department, as Deane has recommended.

Some supervisors said Stewart's unwillingness to fully finance a program he
advocated is duplicitous.

"That's the hypocrisy of the whole thing," Jenkins said. "If you go to the
dance, you have to pay the fiddler."

Stewart, an international trade lawyer at Foley & Lardner in downtown
Washington, was first elected chairman in 2006. He replaced Sean T. Connaughton
(R), who was retiring. County leaders have credited Connaughton with guiding
Prince William through an unprecedented period of growth that brought thousands
of new residents, houses, students and employers. The county has developed a
niche by attracting research laboratories, among them branches of the FBI and
George Mason University.

Connaughton declined to comment.

None of the supervisors said they regret their vote on the immigration policy.
But they said that with Stewart at the helm, the county has been preoccupied
with the initiative.

Prince William residents "have lost confidence," Jenkins said. "It's critically
important we restore that."

Donna Widawski of Haymarket, who frequently attends board meetings, said Stewart
has shown "great leadership" on a difficult issue. "He didn't need [the issue]
to win reelection. He's widely popular," she said. "He has a strong network of
support."

Amy Lagos of Woodbridge said Stewart is influenced by a small segment of the
community: Stewart "wanted national notoriety. Running people out of the county
is not [the way] Prince William should be advertising itself. I hope that's not
the way we identify the county."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Prince William
Board of Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart is under fire for his aggressive
approach to immigration issues.
IMAGE; By Larry Kobelka For The Washington Post; Elena Schlossberg-Kunkel
admonished Corey A. Stewart for his harsh rhetoric on immigration, which she
said threatened to ruin the county's reputation. "I don't know the person you
are anymore, Corey," she said at a meeting.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 25, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

DHS Between Administrations

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 162 words


The Department of Homeland Security has seven main operating units. Here is a
summary of how the presidential transition will affect their leadership, as
Acting Deputy Secretary Paul A. Schneider told a House committee Wednesday.

Coast Guard and  Secret Service: No political appointees.

Transportation Security Administration: Deputy Administrator Gail Rossides, a
longtime civil servant, will assume the responsibilities of acting
administrator.

Federal Emergency Management Agency: Region IX Director Nancy Ward will serve as
acting administrator.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement: Deputy Assistant Secretary John P.
Torres, a career civil servant, will serve as acting assistant secretary.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services: Associate Director for Operations
Michael Aytes, a career civil servant, will serve as acting director.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection: Deputy Commissioner Jayson P. Ahern, a
career civil servant, will serve as acting commissioner.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 689 words

Fighting Pay Bias

 The subhead of your April 23 editorial "Fair Pay, Fair Play; the Senate should
restore workers' ability to sue over pay discrimination, whenever the injustice
is discovered" was inconsistent with the editorial's point.

The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which you support, would permit an employee to
file a pay discrimination lawsuit years after the pay decision was made, even if
the employee was aware of that decision. Indeed, in Lilly Ledbetter's case, her
lower pay, compared with that of men doing similar work, was caused by low
performance evaluations of which she was aware years before she filed her charge
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

A simple solution would be to amend Title VII to make the statute of limitations
run from the date the employee discovered, or with due diligence should have
discovered, the discrimination that caused the pay disparity.

-- David A. Drachsler

Alexandria

The writer is vice chair of the Virginia Council on Human Rights.

Your Immigration Slant

Once again, I was shocked by your biased reporting on illegal immigration in
Prince William County. The April 20 Metro article "Immigration Fight Has a New
Target; Stewart Hurts Pr. William With Rhetoric, Some Say" was one-sided. You
could have gone with a neutral headline such as "Stewart Rhetoric Spurs Debate
in Pr. William."

Illegal immigration is the issue. The fact that you constantly refer to this as
an immigration issue shows your bias. Why can't you report both sides?

Corey Stewart would not have been elected chairman of the Board of Supervisors
if Prince William citizens hadn't wanted harsh rhetoric and action on the issue.
Try talking to someone in Prince William who isn't an activist or on the board,
and maybe you'll find out what most people really think.

-- Christopher Lutz

Manassas

Earth Day in Print

The arrival of Earth Day this week brought the expected articles and opinions of
how to be more "green." Wouldn't it be comforting if you took a more
comprehensive view of our environment throughout the newspaper's sections?

For example, an article praising the "green" thoughts that went into building a
28,000-square-foot house could point out that a 2,800-square-foot house would be
much "greener" regardless of how it was built. Recipes that require rinsing an
ingredient under cold, running water for 20 minutes would not be printed, and no
automobiles would be tested and reviewed unless their fuel consumption was 25
miles per gallon or better.

And the headline on the continuation of an April 21 Metro story, "Mother Nature
Uncooperative During Earth Day Festival," should have said "Mother Nature
Cooperates Fully During Earth Day Festival" by providing an abundance of that
valuable and finite  resource, fresh water.

-- Douglas C. Snure

Annapolis

Overlooking the Homies

I find it interesting that The Post chose to recognize only one of the
outstanding local women who competed in the U.S. Olympic team trials in Boston
on April 20.

Over the past few weeks, you did mention Samia Akbar of Herndon several times.
However, you neglected to recognize (or even notice) that several other local
athletes -- Kristen Henehan of Silver Spring, Lisa Thomas of Alexandria and
Susannah Kvasnicka of Great Falls -- were also in this elite group of only 150
women who qualified to compete for one of the three slots going to Beijing.
Considering that Henehan won the 2007 Marine Corps Marathon and has been locally
based since her days at Georgetown University, I find it strange that  local
talent goes unnoticed by your sports department.

-- Bob Ferry

Vienna

A Lot of Hockey Left

I know Washington is a basketball town, not a hockey town. But would it have
hurt so much for you to have had a story Thursday on the Stanley Cup playoffs'
second round, which began that day? Do you really think Washington Capitals fans
are going back to sleep because their team was eliminated?

I've talked to a number of "new" fans, and they are deeply into the game. If you
wonder why your readership is suffering, here's another reason: I have to get my
hockey news via the Internet.

-- David Lloyd

Chevy Chase

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Corey Stewart

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Guatemalan Stresses Immigrant Sacrifices

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 552 words


Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom, on his first visit to Washington since taking
office in January,  said yesterday that his country's discredited police and
justice systems need to be "reordered and disciplined" and that Guatemalan
immigrants who are in the United States illegally deserve the same temporary
legal protections that have been granted other Central Americans.

In a meeting with Washington Post editors and reporters, the soft-spoken Colom,
a center-left politician who defeated a conservative former army general, said
the problem of illegal immigration needs to be addressed "in a multilateral way"
involving regional governments, rather than through arrests and deportations.
Last year, he said, about 7,500 Guatemalans were deported from the United
States.

Colom, 56, said there should be recognition of the "great sacrifice" many
Guatemalans have made by leaving their families and seeking work abroad. More
than 1 million Guatemalans live in the United States, sending home more than
$3.6 billion a year in remittances. He said that money represents 12 to 13
percent of the country's gross domestic product.

The Guatemalan Embassy estimates that 70,000 Guatemalans live in the Washington
area. "They are not delinquents," Colom said. "They have come here to improve
their economic horizons." He said he had asked President Bush in a meeting
Monday to establish a program of temporary legal protection for Guatemalans who
are in the United States without permission; Bush told reporters that he would
consider the request but that comprehensive immigration reform is also needed.

By some estimates, more than half the Guatemalans in the United States are here
illegally. Many fled civil war and military repression in the 1980s and 1990s,
but many others have since migrated for economic reasons. Guatemala is an
extremely poor country, with 40 percent illiteracy, deep social inequities and a
per capita income of about $5,500.

Many refugees from conflicts and disasters in El Salvador, Honduras and
Nicaragua have received temporary legal protection from the U.S. government.
Some protection programs have been renewed repeatedly in recent decades.

"Until the government passes immigration reform, all Central Americans here need
[temporary protected status] to help to regularize their documents, so they can
work without fear and not stay in the closet," said Elmer Arias, a Salvadoran
American businessman and area leader of the Central American community.

Colom said he had begun to tackle Guatemala's horrendous crime and violence,
which include gang activity, drug trafficking and abuse and corruption in the
police and courts. Guatemala has a long history of political violence that has
increasingly evolved into criminal activity since the country's long-running
civil war ended in 1996.

"The security forces are totally disordered," Colom said, adding that his
administration is in the process of purging the police forces and that in just
three months it had been able to stabilize the crime rate. He said Guatemala had
paid a "terrible price" for the regional problem of drug trafficking and needs
multilateral cooperation to combat it.

In their meeting, Bush and Colom discussed a proposed regional anti-drug
initiative called the Merida Project and agreed on the need for a joint effort.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

CIA Chief Sees Unrest Rising With Population

BYLINE: Joby Warrick; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 504 words


Swelling populations and a global tide of immigration will present new security
challenges for the United States by straining resources and stoking extremism
and civil unrest in distant corners of the globe, CIA Director Michael V. Hayden
said in a speech yesterday.

The population surge could undermine the stability of some of the world's most
fragile states, especially in Africa, while in the West, governments will be
forced to grapple with ever larger immigrant communities and deepening divisions
over ethnicity and race, Hayden said.

Hayden, speaking at Kansas State University, described the projected 33 percent
growth in global population over the next 40 years as one of three significant
trends that will alter the security landscape in the current century. By 2050,
the number of humans on Earth is expected to rise from 6.7 billion to more than
9 billion, he said.

"Most of that growth will occur in countries least able to sustain it, a
situation that will likely fuel instability and extremism, both in those
countries and beyond," Hayden said.

With the population of countries such as Niger and Liberia projected to triple
in size in 40 years, regional governments will be forced to rapidly find food,
shelter and jobs for millions, or deal with restive populations that "could be
easily attracted to violence, civil unrest, or extremism," he said.

European countries, many of which already have large immigrant communities, will
see particular growth in their Muslim populations while the number of
non-Muslims will shrink  as birthrates fall. "Social integration of immigrants
will pose a significant challenge to many host nations -- again boosting the
potential for unrest and extremism," Hayden said.

The CIA director also predicted a widening gulf between Europe and North America
on how to deal with security threats, including terrorism. While U.S. and
European officials agree on the urgency of the terrorism threat, there is a
fundamental difference -- a "transatlantic divide" -- over the solution, he
said.

While the United States sees the fight against terrorism as a global war,
European nations perceive the terrorist threat as a law enforcement problem, he
said.

"They tend not to view terrorism as we do,  as an overwhelming international
challenge. Or if they do, we often differ on what would be effective and
appropriate to counter it," Hayden said. He added that he could not predict
"when or if" the two sides could forge a common approach to security.

A third security trend highlighted by Hayden was the emergence of China as a
global economic and military powerhouse, pursuing its narrow strategic and
political interests. But Hayden said China's increasing prominence need not be
perceived as a direct challenge to the United States.

"If Beijing begins to accept greater responsibility for the health of the
international system,  as all global powers should,  we will remain on a
constructive, even if competitive, path," he said. "If not, the rise of China
begins to look more adversarial."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 460 words

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Illegal-Immigration Policies Protested

An activist group that opposes Prince William County's illegal-immigration
policies said it distributed hundreds of leaflets yesterday to  those on a
commercial real estate bus tour of the area, warning them to "think twice before
you or your clients move to Prince William County."

Alexandria-based Tenants and Workers United said it held up banners and
blanketed the sold-out, nine-bus tour of the region's office parks and
industrial areas with the fliers. The warning was directed at high-tech and
biotech companies, which the county has been trying to lure to Innovation
Technology Park and other areas.

"We understand that many high-tech and bio-tech companies depend on foreign
workers to carry out their intellectual work," the flier  said. "We doubt their
foreign-born workers will want to locate in a county that is rife with racial
tension."

Prince William's policies have "helped to create a hostile environment for all
who 'look' like immigrants," the flier alleged.

The Northern Virginia chapter of the National Association of Industrial and
Office Properties, which organized the tour, could not be reached to comment.

-- Nick Miroff

STAFFORD COUNTY

Part of Peninsula Is Made a Preserve

A section of the Crow's Nest Peninsula in Stafford County, which
conservationists have been fighting to protect for decades, was dedicated as a
state nature preserve yesterday.

A 1,770-acre tract of the peninsula -- which includes forests, shorelines,
ravines and endangered species -- is now protected from development as part of
the Virginia Natural Area Preserve System, officials said.

The dedication follows a deal reached in December by Stafford County
supervisors to purchase the land for $19 million, primarily with state funds.
The county has the option to buy an additional 1,100 acres of Crow's Nest over
the next two years, officials said.

The preserve will remain closed indefinitely,  officials said, while funding for
staffing is sought and access improvements are made.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

CHARLOTTESVILLE

U-Va. Will Raise Tuition and Fees

The University of Virginia plans to increase in-state undergraduate tuition and
fees 9.4 percent to $9,300 for the 2008-09 school year.

The university's board of visitors also voted Wednesday to increase out-of-state
tuition 6.7 percent, to $29,600.

Tuition and fees plus housing and dining will increase 7.3 percent, to $17,120,
for Virginia residents. Out-of-state undergraduates' total bill will increase by
6.3 percent, to $37,420. There is an additional $198 orientation fee for
first-year students only.

The increases will go toward  faculty and staff compensation,  academic
programs, and  building and  maintenance projects.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 28, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Michael E. George (D)

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 842 words


What are your thoughts on creating a countywide police department and merging
those services with that of the Leesburg Police Department?

I am in favor of it and believe that in the near future it will be a necessity.
It is not something that can be done overnight, more like five years in the
making, so we need to start planning . . . for it now. If we wait, we will be
playing catch-up once again. It takes a lot of the politics out of public
safety. Right now the only requirement for sheriff is to live in Loudoun County.
The selection of a police chief is usually a nationwide process, to bring in the
most qualified person.

Given that the [Virginia] Supreme Court has explicitly ruled that the sheriff
has no rule-making or policy role, exactly what differences between the
candidates should be evaluated by the voters?

The voters should be looking at qualifications, background and education. What
are the current problems and who has the means to address them. The current
issues we face on a local level will be gangs, immigration issues and illegal
narcotics. I am the only candidate who has work in gangs, in narcotics and with
immigration. Loudoun County is a rapidly growing, wealthy county with changing
demographics. I worked in Fairfax when it was experiencing what we now see in
Loudoun.

I have read that while you were an officer in Fairfax, you ran an ICE
[Immigration and Customs Enforcement] type of operation with only one officer.
Is that true, and is it feasible to do that now in Loudoun?

Ten years ago when I was running the gang unit in Fairfax, we would arrest gang
members who committed felonies and we were unable to deport them because
immigration, now ICE, was just too overloaded to help. I met with them and
assigned one detective full time to their office, with his sole responsibility
being to process undocumented aliens who we arrested to have them deported. It
worked with one person.

Would we need more than one person now? Most likely. Do we need to train the
entire force? Absolutely not. If I was wrong, you could always add more people.
The 287 (g) program [of the Immigration and Nationality Act] is a modification
of what I was doing 10 years ago, so yes, I do believe it is feasible and
necessary.

You have been out of touch with police work for eight years. How does this
justify your candidacy for the office of sheriff?

In my current position, I work with law enforcement on a daily basis. Just last
week, I was at the Northern Virginia regional police academy teaching an
eight-hour class to 28 officers from various jurisdictions within Northern
Virginia. I have provided training to over 1,800 law enforcement officers from
over 400 different jurisdictions in 31 different states in the last two years.

I also assist with the writing of search warrants and have participated in raids
with local law enforcement as part of my duties. I meet with more police
personnel than either of my opponents. This exposure provides me with what other
jurisdictions are doing, what works and what doesn't, which I believe is a good
thing if we can learn from the mistakes and successes of others.

Have you considered a program, used successfully in several places, where one
partially deputizes taxi drivers and delivery drivers and others who drive
around the community with radio or telephone capabilities? They are trained to
observe when something might be askew and to phone in a report of suspicious
activity, such as someone breaking into a window.

I have not considered this program, but I have to say I like it. Anything that
enhances the communications between law enforcement and the community is
beneficial.

Aren't there complications in dealing with immigration issues on the local
police level? Don't local police lack the capabilities to check immigration
status and to act accordingly?

The whole immigration issue is a series of complications. The police do lack
certain capabilities, and ICE, although it has the capabilities, does not always
act because they are overworked and they have to prioritize. My stance has been
target criminals -- if they are here illegally, they get deported. If I were to
have a deputy check the status of a person who was filing a complaint and the
person was here illegally, he would not be deported by ICE for a status
violation. I would not have the deputies doing that because it accomplishes
nothing and it turns off the community from reporting crimes, which is a quality
of life issue for all of us.

Do you have any plans to modify the current community police program in place in
Loudoun County?

Community policing is vital to effective police work. Having a background in
intelligence gathering, I would like to add an element of intelligence-based
community policing, using reports and some basic analysis to direct where we
need to place the community policing units and how many we need. Have the units
target specific issues that are a concern to the specific community. I would
like the community office to be available via e-mail as an additional method of
contact.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 29, 2007 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Finding Love Abroad, Then Support Online for Visa Quest

BYLINE: Karin Brulliard; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1315 words


This is what love has done to Wendy Brown: She's lost weight, resumed smoking
and all but decided to move to the Balkans to be with her Albanian fiance. And
each night, she spends hours in her cozy Baltimore apartment mingling online
with strangers who are equally fixated on the same topic: getting their soul
mates through the U.S. immigration system.

"We are both devastated," Brown, 38, wrote last spring on VisaJourney.com,
reporting that the U.S. Embassy in Albania had denied her fiance a visa. She
also posted a list of the questions the fiance was asked at his interview. "I'm
going to keep fighting and fighting until we get what we both want more than
anything in the world. . . . and that is to be together." Many people are
frustrated with the immigration process and its long lines and opaque
applications that, if misinterpreted, can send a case back to square one.
Perhaps none are more ardent than the growing ranks of U.S. citizens applying
for fiance and spouse visas, who say their passion is driven by a sense that
their own government is fighting them and by the fear that delays or denials
might spell the end of a romance.

In recent years, these American petitioners have channeled their despair into a
few Web sites featuring the odd pairing of love stories and red-tape navigation
for those fed up with the federal immigration agency's help line, whose
representatives are trained in immigration regulations and provide scripted
advice that critics say is often wrong.

VisaJourney, a site whose 35,000 members are mostly Americans with foreign
fiances and spouses, is at once a celebration of love and a condemnation of
bureaucracy. Members, who call themselves VJ'ers, describe meeting their
beloveds in Kenyan bars, Jamaican churches, online video games. They have posted
thousands of photos of smiling couples in foreign lands. Their profile pages are
adorned with beating hearts, clocks counting the hours since their last meetings
and such statements as "feels like eternity . . . without him."

Members also post detailed timelines with dates of approved and denied forms and
interviews; moderators crunch those into graphs of average wait times at
domestic visa offices and overseas embassies. They rank U.S. immigration offices
with stars as if they were restaurants. They advise one another on procuring
police records for an Ecuadorean fiance and how much proof of a relationship --
photos, love letters -- a hopeful British fiance should cart to an interview.
(As much as he can carry, one member advised, adding "knock 'em dead.")

"Misery loves company," said Brown, a vocational rehabilitation specialist.
"You're looking for any beacon of hope."

That company has grown alongside a jump in these visas: Nearly 33,000 fiance
visas were issued in 2005, up from about 9,000 in 1995. Spouse visas rose to
more than 16,000 from about 4,600 since 2000. Immigration officials offer no
single explanation for the growth, but some observers say the Internet -- with
its online dating sites, instant messaging and Web cams -- has fueled
transnational relationships.

Uniting in the United States is not so easy. The petitioner files numerous forms
and documents that are typically processed within six months, longer than for
many other non-family visas. Next come background checks. Then the application
goes to a U.S. embassy or consulate, where the fiance or spouse submits more
forms and is interviewed. The process can take months or years.

VisaJourney members list a host of complaints: Those on the East Coast are
enraged about what they call a recent slowdown in approval times, which they
zealously track. They condemn U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services' recent
announcement that it was prioritizing employment and citizenship cases after a
summer surge in work visa applications.

"People who aren't born-and-bred American citizens are taking precedence over
American citizens. . . . The government is talking about, 'Let's legalize the
illegal aliens' when you're waiting for your loved ones to get here. What
happened to family first?" said Faith Keenan, 43, of Ruther Glen, Va. She
applied for a visa for her Egyptian fiance four months ago. She said she thinks
about her pending application "all day long. It consumes you."

Officials say that waits vary and that decisions are made with the interest of
legitimate applicants and national security in mind; foreigners sometimes feign
love to get visas, so officials must be diligent, said Immigration Services
spokeswoman Chris Rhatigan. The government, she said, is "committed to
family-based visas."

That is little consolation to the VJ'ers.

Virgil Moore of Catonsville, Md., said the site has been a godsend since he
applied for his Filipina fiancee four months ago. When he wondered if she could
be interviewed at a consulate rather than the U.S. Embassy, he e-mailed the
embassy that question and also asked on VisaJourney. VJ'ers quickly said no. The
embassy said no as well but took four months to do so.

Now he logs on daily to see if other VJ'ers have been approved. Few have
recently. He reports this via Web cam to his tearful fiancee, Ana Deresa
Cabarubias, 27, whom he met online.

"We felt so close," Moore, a divorced UPS employee, said of his one visit to see
Cabarubias in May. "Now we've been separated. . . . I wonder if it's going to
put stress on our relationship."

Brown calls herself obsessed with her fiance's immigration situation. She and
Ilion Hasaj caught each other's eye in May 2006 in a bar in Greece, where each
was vacationing. She has since made four trips to visit Hasaj, whose family
grows tobacco behind their Albanian home.

She applied for his fiance visa last October and began to plan a Las Vegas
wedding. The visa was denied in April. His application was returned to U.S.
officials for another review. Brown has heard nothing since.

After writing to members of Congress and federal officials, she has learned only
that the visa was denied on the following grounds: "The interviewing consular
officer has reason to believe that the engagement was entered into to evade
immigration laws."

Brown suspects that Hasaj was not effusive about their love at the interview
because he's the macho type. Their age difference -- he is 21 -- might also have
sounded alarms, she said. She is confident that his devotion is real, partly
because he welcomes the idea of her moving to Albania.

So every night, Brown researches immigration regulations and checks in with
VisaJourney, where she "hangs" in forums with other fiances of Albanians.

Her speech is infused with immigration lingo: Hasaj's denial is "what we call a
soft denial," she'll say, or Albania is "what we call a high-fraud post."

She adds to the box of documents other VJ'ers have told her she'll need if
officials request more evidence of her relationship with Hasaj. It includes a
six-inch-thick folder of 14 months' worth of online chatlogs.

"It's addictive," Brown said of the site.

And that can be a problem, Keenan said. Like Brown, she logs onto VisaJourney
constantly -- to ask questions, post sale fares to Egypt, buoy others. Sometimes
it's too much, she said.

"You feel support, but you feel depressed, because you see other people
approved," she said. "Sometimes you have to step back."

One bright spot, Brown said, is the friendship she forged with a California
VJ'er who successfully got her Albanian fiance into the United States.

"On those many nights when I've had it, on the verge of a breakdown, the
frustration with the process, to be able to pick up the phone and talk to
someone who can sympathize with you is nice," Brown said, her voice breaking.

But the separation from Hasaj is too hard, the travel too costly. Come next
month, she said, she is moving to Albania.

"Not that I want to be a farmer's wife," she said on a recent night, gazing at
the ivory, ruched-bodice wedding dress she is waiting to wear.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nikki Kahn -- The Washington Post; Brown has a wedding dress
ready but had to put her plans for nuptials in Las Vegas on hold. She has shared
details of her immigration battles with those in similar straits on
VisaJourney.com, a site she describes as "addictive."
IMAGE; Courtesy Of Wendy Brown; Wendy Brown of Baltimore flew to Albania in
April to be with her fiance, Ilion Hasaj. He was denied a U.S. visa the same
month and awaits another review.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 31, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

County Defends Immigrant Measures;
Pr. William Wants Lawsuit Dismissed

BYLINE: Jerry Markon; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 497 words


Prince William County officials struck back yesterday against a lawsuit
challenging their closely watched crackdown on illegal immigration, arguing that
it should be thrown out because the county broke no laws and is not targeting
anyone for discrimination.

In a response filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, the county attorney's
office said the 22 plaintiffs who sued the county this month misrepresented the
resolution ordering police to check the immigration status of people in custody.
The county said the plaintiffs were overreacting when they said the measure is
discriminatory and is causing immigrants to leave Prince William.

"They can point to no language in that Resolution that authorizes or encourages
discrimination based on race, color, national origin, or ethnicity," the county
attorneys wrote. "They can point to no language that authorizes Police or County
employees to take actions which violate the Constitution.''

If anyone is leaving the county because of the resolution, they stated, then it
is because of people's "unreasonable" reading of its "plain language."

Eduardo Ferrer, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said the lawsuit was filed
because the case has merit.

County officials have requested a hearing on their motion to dismiss the case,
and the two sides have agreed to a proposed date of Nov. 30. A hearing had not
been set by late yesterday.

The county's response indicated that the strong emotions pervading the
immigration debate have now moved into the courtroom. Prince William's crackdown
on illegal immigration has attracted national attention and has placed the
county at the forefront of Virginia jurisdictions that are trying to curb a
situation that they say the federal government has not adequately addressed.

The July resolution outlined a policy in which officers would check the
immigration status of anyone in police custody who they have probable cause to
believe is an illegal immigrant. It also asked county employees to look for ways
to lawfully deny services to illegal immigrants.

This month, at a meeting attended by more than 1,200 people, the Board of County
Supervisors voted unanimously to proceed with the police crackdown and also cut
off certain services to illegal immigrants who are homeless, elderly or addicted
to drugs. Under the new rules, officers will cooperate more closely with federal
immigration authorities. Police have said the measure will not be enforced until
officers are trained in determining legal status, which will take months.

The county in its filing yesterday defended its decision and said the
plaintiffs, who include four illegal immigrants, "take no notice of the fact
that illegal immigration has real world consequences in places where illegal
immigrants locate in significant numbers."

Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the county board, said in an
interview, "Obviously, we don't believe the lawsuit has any merit, and we've
asked the courts to throw it out as quickly as possible."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Corey A. Stewart, board chairman, said the lawsuit has no merit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Eugene A. Delgaudio (R)*

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ24

LENGTH: 482 words

Eugene A. Delgaudio (R)*

Age:  52

Residence: Sterling Park.

Education: BA, political science and economics, York College/CUNY.

Occupation: President, Public Advocate of the U.S. Inc.

Elected offices/civic activities: Director, Loudoun County Sanitation Authority,
2004-present; chairman, finance committee, Board of Supervisors, 2004-present;
member, Sterling District, Loudoun County Board of Supervisors, 2000-present;
member, board of directors, Sterling Park chapter of Young Americans for
Freedom; member, Cub Scouts, Ruritans, Rotary International, Knights of
Columbus.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Join me in a fight for lower taxes, even stronger restrictions on overcrowded
homes, new policies and legal actions against illegal immigration and against
plans to densely pack Sterling. I'm lowering spending, tackling illegal
immigration and opposing plans to virtually bulldoze Sterling and turn it into
Tysons Corner. I will attempt to reverse these harmful trends and attempt to
restore the good equity of the real estate properties and restore the quality of
life of Sterling. I raised over $100,000 for Discovery Park and Bill Allen Field
and will raise more for the youth of Sterling in my next term."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will work full time to lower spending, tackle illegal immigration, enforce
and strengthen -- not weaken -- overcrowding laws and oppose plans to virtually
bulldoze Sterling."

Web site:

http://www.joineugene.com

E-mail address:

eugenedelgaudio@erols.com

Jeanne R. West (D)

Age:  57

Residence: Sterling Park.

Education: AA, accounting, Northern Virginia Community College.

Occupation: Treasurer, chief financial officer, West Sheet Metal Co.

Elected offices/civic activities: Treasurer, vice president and 16-year board
member, Dulles Tech Center Commercial Property Owners Association; secretary and
two-term treasurer, Park View High School Band Aides parent group; religious
education teacher, Christ Redeemer Catholic Church; math tutor, Sully Elementary
School; volunteer driver for cancer patients, Christ Redeemer Catholic Church.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Sterling District is a wonderful but aging community that needs county
resources and improvements to revitalize our neighborhoods and address
overcrowding and property maintenance issues. Sterling offers some of the most
affordable housing in Loudoun County and is one of the few places in Loudoun
where our police, teachers and working families can afford to live and raise
their families.  Communities such as Sterling must be maintained as safe,
desirable places to live."

Why should voters elect you?

"As supervisor, I will be the Sterling District's advocate. I will fight to
ensure that Sterling receives the county services and amenities we urgently
need."

Web site:

http://www.jeannewestforsterling.com

E-mail address:

jeannewest2007@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Aid Group To Move to Langley Park;
CASA of Maryland Office To Open in Spring 2009

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 665 words


The narrow streets of the Langley Park neighborhood are thick with trucks
selling hot tortillas and pupusas. Low-slung brick apartment buildings nearby
are home to thousands of low-income, largely Spanish-speaking residents.

Soon, the abandoned Georgian mansion at the heart of the 24-acre apartment
complex on the border of Prince George's and Montgomery counties will be
transformed into a regional headquarters for the state's largest Latino and
immigration advocacy group, CASA of Maryland.

"It's more than a building," said Thomas E. Perez, Maryland's secretary of
labor, licensing and regulation , a former CASA board and Montgomery County
council member. "It's a place where people can walk to learn English, get health
care -- a safe haven for kids after school."

The plan to create a permanent home for CASA, an anchor for non-English speakers
throughout the region, is emblematic of how the group has grown with the state's
immigrant population. In its 22-year history, CASA has evolved from a church
basement in Takoma Park to a sophisticated $3.3 million operation with a staff
of 55 and programs throughout the state, including Baltimore and Silver Spring.

Nearly 80 percent of the Langley Park neighborhood in Prince George's is Latino,
compared with 7.1 percent countywide and 4.3 percent statewide. A total of 9.8
percent of Maryland residents are foreign-born.

At a kickoff reception last month, Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) praised the planned
multicultural center, calling it a "place of empowerment." In his comments, he
seemed to knock former governor Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R), who three years ago
derided multiculturalism as "bunk."

"In these times of nativism and negativism, when some narrow few seek to
denigrate any group, it is really important that we come together in projects
like this," O'Malley said.

The 83-year-old McCormick-Goodhart home, with its double staircase, fireplaces
and intricate molding, would be restored under the group's plan to raise $30
million and open in spring 2009. The building, donated to CASA by Sawyer Realty,
will be available to several nonprofit agencies and offer English classes, in
addition to health, legal and economic-development services.

"We know this is a community with a lot of problems," said Gustavo Torres,
CASA's executive director. "But it has extraordinary potential."

The renovation project relies on private and public funding, including
contributions from local, state and federal governments. The Maryland General
Assembly has provided $400,000 through bond legislation, Prince George's County
has contributed $500,000, and $100,000 has come from Montgomery County.

State Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), a former CASA board member,
emphasized the importance of offering culturally appropriate services.

"An incredible number of people need services, and it's not a cookie-cutter
approach," she said.

CASA works with 20,000 low-income immigrants annually and has expanded beyond
its traditional Latino base as the region's population has become more diverse.

Marcel Loko, an immigrant from Benin in West Africa, was among those celebrating
the project at last month's reception. He has relied on CASA for assistance in
learning English and finding a job and health care.

"If you start to speak English, you can do anything you want in this country,"
said Loko, 45, who has a graduate degree in economics and has worked in Maryland
in landscaping and cleaning.

CASA is not without critics, who oppose the use of public money to help
immigrants who are in the country illegally. CASA operates Montgomery's day
laborer centers in Wheaton, Silver Spring and the newest center near
Gaithersburg that connect employers with immigrant workers.

Help Save Maryland, a leading opponent of the centers, issued a news release on
the day of CASA's celebration, calling on the governor and county governments to
withdraw financial support for the project and to instead boost spending on
local schools, transportation and law enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Two Candidates Lean Left on Views

BYLINE: Annie Gowen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA41

LENGTH: 508 words


On Tuesday, voters in Virginia's House District 49 will choose between two
left-leaning candidates to represent them in Richmond: incumbent Adam P. Ebbin
(D) and James Ronald Fisher of the Independent Green Party. No Republican
candidate entered the race.

Ebbin, who is seeking his third term, was the first openly gay legislator to
serve in the House of Delegates when he was elected in 2003. He said he is
seeking reelection to continue his work as a voice for diversity. His district,
which has a large percentage of Latinos and immigrants, includes parts of
Alexandria and Arlington and Fairfax counties.

Throughout his two terms, Ebbin, an Alexandria resident and communications
consultant, has often been sought out for comment during legislative debates in
the conservative General Assembly over the marriage act and efforts to curtail
the rights of same-sex couples and services for illegal immigrants. Most
recently, he tried unsuccessfully to push legislation that would have
strengthened the state's workforce discrimination laws.

"I don't want people to be singled out and discriminated against, whoever they
are," Ebbin said. "There has been a lot of nasty anti-immigration legislation
passed. . . . My greatest concern is that in the frenzy to target and punish
undocumented immigrants, we will drive away legal citizens."

Ebbin cites his work on legislation requiring emergency planning for schools,
protection for consumers as it relates to auto loans and paving the way for an
arts and entertainment district in Alexandria among his recent achievements. If
reelected, he plans to focus on human services and environmental legislation and
wants to establish a panel to study climate change in Virginia.

He acknowledges it might be a tough year, given a projected budget shortfall
that could mean layoffs and fee increases.

"We're going to have big challenges because there is a revenue shortfall.
There's strong support in my district for solving problems in a realistic way,"
Ebbin said.

Ebbin is being challenged by Fisher, a retired Navy captain and engineer from
Arlington. Fisher runs the Defense Fire Protection Association, a research
foundation dedicated to military safety. He said he was a Republican and
precinct captain in Arlington for many years. He chaired the 2000 Northern
Virginia presidential campaign for former Naval Academy classmate John McCain.

But in recent years he has split with the Republican Party over the Iraq war and
joined the Green Party. He said he would caucus with Democrats in Richmond if
elected.

"I'm absolutely disillusioned. . . . I won't support the Republicans anymore,"
Fisher said. "The main thing is that our government is dysfunctional. There's no
other way to describe it, from Richmond to Capitol Hill."

He said state legislators need to speak out more strongly against the war in
Iraq.

If elected, he would work to shift spending on criminal justice, prisons and
management of the death penalty system to social programs such as expanding
mental health services and pre-kindergarten programs.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Aid Group to Move To Langley Park;
CASA of Maryland's Office to Open in '09

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. HO03

LENGTH: 665 words


The narrow streets of the Langley Park neighborhood are thick with trucks
selling hot tortillas and pupusas. Low-slung brick apartment buildings nearby
are home to thousands of low-income, largely Spanish-speaking residents.

Soon, the abandoned Georgian mansion at the heart of the 24-acre apartment
complex on the border of Prince George's and Montgomery counties will be
transformed into a regional headquarters for the state's largest Latino and
immigration advocacy group, CASA of Maryland.

"It's more than a building," said Thomas E. Perez, Maryland's secretary of
labor, licensing and regulation, a former CASA board and Montgomery County
council member. "It's a place where people can walk to learn English, get health
care -- a safe haven for kids after school."

The plan to create a permanent home for CASA, an anchor for non-English speakers
throughout the region, is emblematic of how the group has grown with the state's
immigrant population. In its 22-year history, CASA has evolved from a church
basement in Takoma Park to a sophisticated $3.3 million operation with a staff
of 55 and programs throughout the state, including Baltimore and Silver Spring.

Nearly 80 percent of the Langley Park neighborhood in Prince George's is Latino,
compared with 7.1 percent countywide and 4.3 percent statewide. A total of 9.8
percent of Maryland residents are foreign-born.

At a kickoff reception last month, Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) praised the planned
multicultural center, calling it a "place of empowerment." In his comments, he
seemed to knock former governor Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R), who three years ago
derided multiculturalism as "bunk."

"In these times of nativism and negativism, when some narrow few seek to
denigrate any group, it is really important that we come together in projects
like this," O'Malley said.

The 83-year-old McCormick-Goodhart home, with its double staircase, fireplaces
and intricate molding, would be restored under the group's plan to raise $30
million and open in spring 2009. The building, donated to CASA by Sawyer Realty,
will be available to several nonprofit agencies and offer English classes, in
addition to health, legal and economic-development services.

"We know this is a community with a lot of problems," said Gustavo Torres,
CASA's executive director. "But it has extraordinary potential."

The renovation project relies on private and public funding, including
contributions from local, state and federal governments. The Maryland General
Assembly has provided $400,000 through bond legislation, Prince George's County
has contributed $500,000, and $100,000 has come from Montgomery County.

State Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), a former CASA board member,
emphasized the importance of offering culturally appropriate services.

"An incredible number of people need services, and it's not a cookie-cutter
approach," she said.

CASA works with 20,000 low-income immigrants annually and has expanded beyond
its traditional Latino base as the region's population has become more diverse.

Marcel Loko, an immigrant from Benin in West Africa, was among those celebrating
the project at last month's reception. He has relied on CASA for assistance in
learning English and finding a job and health care.

"If you start to speak English, you can do anything you want in this country,"
said Loko, 45, who has a graduate degree in economics and has worked in Maryland
in landscaping and cleaning.

CASA is not without critics, who oppose the use of public money to help
immigrants who are in the country illegally. CASA operates Montgomery's day
laborer centers in Wheaton, Silver Spring and the newest center near
Gaithersburg that connect employers with immigrant workers.

Help Save Maryland, a leading opponent of the centers, issued a news release on
the day of CASA's celebration, calling on the governor and county governments to
withdraw financial support for the project and to instead boost spending on
local schools, transportation and law enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Howard County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Immigration, Housing Key In 7-Person Council Race

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ18

LENGTH: 916 words


Gaithersburg's City Council election is a wide-open, critical contest that will
help determine how the local government handles issues such as affordable
housing, development and  immigration in the next four years.

Seven candidates are vying for three seats on the five-member council, the
largest field in at least the past 18 years. Along with longtime Mayor Sidney A.
Katz, the council must choose a new city manager and city attorney, in addition
to overseeing a $50 million budget and the city's land use.

Incumbents  Stanley J. Alster, Geri Edens and John B. Schlichting  announced
unexpectedly that they would not seek reelection after one of the most trying
periods for the city's government. A budget showdown over affordable housing
threatened to shut down the government. A divisive debate about  where to locate
a center for immigrant workers dragged on for three years and put the city in a
heated battle with the county.

Most of the  candidates say they want to breathe new life into Gaithersburg's
historic Olde Towne while retaining its character; ensure safe communities by
attracting and retaining police officers; and build a  multimillion dollar
aquatic center. Some of the candidates' sharpest differences can be seen in how
they would craft policies on affordable housing and  immigration.

Two candidates,  Jud Ashman and Cathy C. Drzyzgula,  have joined together on a
shared platform and are endorsed by Katz. Ashman, 35, is in charge of the
parent-teacher associations for the schools that feed into Quince Orchard High
School. He fell a few dozen votes short in a bid for the council two years ago.

Drzyzgula, 51, is coordinator for Olde Towne's neighborhood watch and served on
the city's task force on day laborers. The city can afford to increase salaries
for police officers if that is what is needed to strengthen the force, she said.

Overall crime rates in the city dropped by 11 percent from the second quarter of
2006 to the same period this year. But a 68 percent spike in street robberies
has captured the public's attention.

The mayor has also endorsed  lawyer Ryan Spiegel, 29, who serves on the city's
education advisory committee and who ran unsuccessfully for the House of
Delegates last fall. Spiegel, in turn, is backing two other candidates: Ahmed
Ali, 35, a government contractor and U.S. Navy veteran, and Carlos Solis, 48, a
member of the police department's advisory committee who owns a dental practice
in Olde Towne.

Turnout for  a nonpartisan contest is typically low. In the last election, only
2,678 of  27,000 registered voters cast ballots. But this election has sparked
new interest with the creation of One Gaithersburg, an allegiance of labor
unions, the Coalition of Asian Pacific Americans and the statewide advocacy
group Progressive Maryland. The group has endorsed  Ali, Solis and Spiegel, who
have highlighted the importance of inclusion and diversity in the city's
policies.

"There are worrying signs of intolerance that are being perpetrated by a small
but vocal minority, and we want to make sure that the city government doesn't
acquiesce to those types of demands," said Sean Dobson, Progressive Maryland's
executive director.

The controversy over the location of a day laborer center polarized the city of
61,000 people, which is at least 20 percent Latino, according to the 2000
census. When the council failed to find a location within the city, County
Executive Isiah Leggett (D) opened a center on county property just over the
Gaithersburg border.

Newcomer Wilson Lee Faris said he was inspired to run because of the
immigration debate. Faris, 61, a sales specialist at Lowes, opposes the city or
the county using public funds to operate a center or provide any services to
illegal immigrants.

"I would not deal with any organization that was aiding and abetting criminal
activity," he said. "If it's wrong, it's wrong. I don't care where it is."

Still unresolved is a controversial anti-solicitation ordinance that the council
passed that would make it illegal to seek work or hire workers on most city
streets, sidewalks and parking areas. Candidate Shawn Ali, an information
technology consultant, objects to the ordinance because of his concern about
"infringing on people's right to gather freely and to express themselves." Ali,
33, ran unsuccessfully for delegate in 2002.

In contrast, Drzyzgula and Ashman want the city to enforce the ordinance, and
they give the day laborer center mixed reviews.

Montgomery County's requirement that developers set aside 12.5 percent of new
residential development for  moderate-income units  and 10 percent near Metro
stations for workforce housing  does not apply to the incorporated city. But the
council approved its own policy that requires developers to reserve 7.5 percent
of units for those whose salaries are  60 to 80 percent of median income and
7.5 percent for workforce housing. The policy also exempts development in Olde
Towne.

Ahmed Ali, Solis and Spiegel said they would seek to increase those percentages
to protect and create a larger pool of affordable housing. Spiegel called the
current policy a "token" percentage that should be moved up to  at least 12.5
percent, if not more,  and should apply to Old Towne.

Shawn Ali said he, too, is concerned about creating an "exclusive city."

Drzyzgula, meanwhile, said the council was correct to exempt Old Towne in an
effort to remove barriers to revitalization and attract developers that she said
have been slow to invest downtown.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 3, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 579 words

A Majority Isn't Enough

In his Oct. 26 Washington Sketch, Dana Milbank commented that "Democrats . . .
now control both houses of Congress . . . ."

Most of the media use the same terminology, but it is not true. Small majorities
do not constitute "control" in the government set up by our Constitution.
Veto-proof majorities would control Congress.

-- Dave Skillman

Greenbelt

Illegality Is the Issue

I have noticed that you often pass up the chance to use the word "illegal" with
the word "immigration" in your headlines. The objections voiced in recent months
in this country are not to legal immigrants, whatever their ethnic origins or
native languages; the objections are to people who do not respect the right of
the United States to control its immigration and to employers who exploit a pool
of cheap labor that has no rights.

I am an immigrant; my children are first-generation Americans. We worked hard to
come here, and we obeyed the laws -- just as all responsible Americans do. The
Post needs to be more honest in its headlines.

-- Teresa Chin Jones

Arlington

Local Boy Makes Good

Shame on The Post for not recognizing Brian Dumm, a product of James W. Robinson
School in Fairfax County and the U.S. Air Force Academy, as the first military
finisher and for ranking sixth overall in the 32nd Marine Corps Marathon
[Sports, Oct. 29].

In only his second marathon, he won the Armed Forces Marathon Championship and
led the Air Force team to the military men's title.

-- John Renkiewicz

Burke

Methuselah Doesn't Count

In his rush to praise Atlantic Monthly's upcoming 150th birthday ["Atlantic
Blows Out Candles With Lots of Hot Air," The Magazine Reader, Oct. 30], Peter
Carlson wrote, "Magazines that live 150 years are almost as rare as humans that
live 150 years."

Well, come this month, we know of one magazine that will have reached that
milestone, but no human has been recorded to have made it within 25 years of the
span.

-- Gerry Donohue

Silver Spring

What Part of WVU . . . ?

The Your Week column on Page 3 of the Oct. 26 Weekend section had a blurb
headlined "Are You Ready for Some Partying?"

The answer? "Travel to Morgantown, W.Va. -- the home of the University of West
Virginia -- the nation's biggest party school -- in Wednesday's Style section."

Sorry, but students party at West Virginia University, not the University of
West Virginia.

-- Bettina Ponsart

Bethesda

Allow Folks to Be Heard

On Oct. 27 you published three letters from special interests, one from a member
of Congress and one from a Kurdistan official. Don't you have enough "regular
people" sending you letters?

Given that you have the Page Three feature in the Metro section for odd
observations from readers, please put aside a special page devoted to the
complaints or rebuttals from corporations, government officials or embassies.

When I read the letters page, I want to know what my fellow citizens are
thinking and saying and feeling -- not a bunch of characters with vested
interests.

-- Carol Shaw Greger

Bowie

Necking in the Newspaper

I recognize that The Post faces a challenge in finding different ways to
describe all the campaigns in Virginia's off-year elections, but sometimes you
go too far.

On Page B1 on Oct. 27, the Metro story "Tide May Turn in Hampton Roads"
described a race as "neck-in-neck." But on Page B4, the story "Candidate Cries
Foul Over Mailing" characterized a contest as "neck-and-neck."

I was better able to relate to the latter metaphor.

-- Craig Cranston

Williamsburg

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 3, 2007 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Raw Look at Immigration Crucible;
Pr. William Web Serial Aims to Foster a Deeper, More Civil Discourse

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1260 words


In one video, a man furious about hearing Spanish at a hardware store berates a
group of Latino families with a lecture on American history, telling them "my
ancestors were here before the Constitution." A little girl shyly reminds him:
"The Indians were here before the Americans."

In another clip, a woman asks county officials not to forget "who was
responsible for 9/11 -- illegals," while a man tells them, "Don't confuse the
9/11 with the 7-Eleven. . . . The guys at the 7-Eleven just want to work."

Other scenes show worried, frustrated residents denouncing a "foreign invasion"
and warning of "civil war," to which one scowling young man taunts: "Bring it."

The illegal-immigration clash that has consumed Prince William County
neighborhoods and government halls is now showing up in serial form on YouTube,
archived and freely available in all its raw intensity.

The footage, posted by local filmmakers Annabel Park and Eric Byler, is neither
pretty nor polished. But the couple adds a chapter nearly every day, offering
all sides a chance to be seen and heard, as well as a forum for well-mannered
debate to those willing to engage in it.

Park and Byler describe their project as an interactive documentary that aims to
defuse tensions and explore the complexity of the issue. Their clips are loaded
with the unfiltered emotions that have flooded county streets and county
politics, but the filmmakers allow the material to stand on its own, without
narration or commentary. A more complete documentary might come later, they say,
but for now their goal is to edit and upload the footage as fast as possible to
their site, http://www.youtube.com/9500Liberty.

"What you normally do is shoot, then edit, then enter film festivals," said
Byler, 35, a Gainesville resident. "On that trajectory, people would see this
film for the first time next summer. That's a long time to wait. If the movie is
meant to create dialogue, why release it after things may have already shifted?"

With little more than a basic video camera and laptop computers, Byler, Park and
a third partner, Jeff Man, have spent the past few months filming Prince
William's efforts to enact the region's toughest measures targeting illegal
immigrants. Before the county supervisors voted last week to cut off certain
services to illegal immigrants and increase immigration enforcement by the
police, Byler and Park recorded the session of emotional public testimony, which
lasted more than 12 hours.

Excerpts of the testimony have been posted in installments on their site, along
with their most-viewed clip, set at the so-called Liberty Wall in Manassas,
which has been viewed more than 38,000 times.

The five-minute video tracks the fate of a large banner in Manassas that reads
"Stop Your Racism to Hispanics" and hangs from the last wall of a recently
demolished house at 9500 Liberty St. -- "at the intersection of Liberty and
Prince William Street," the filmmakers note. The banner has been a symbol of the
county's tension, as well as a target for it, having survived a dud Molotov
cocktail attack only to later be ripped in half by vandals.

"People are writing to us and saying, 'What can we do?' " Park said. "They want
to get involved."

Park, 39, was born in Korea but grew up in Houston and Rockville. Before Prince
William became a flashpoint for the nation's immigration debate, she led a
successful campaign for a U.S. House resolution urging Japan to apologize for
the sexual enslavement of "comfort women" during World War II.

Since then, Park said she has declined several job offers from lobbying groups,
opting instead to follow Prince William's rocky effort to rid its communities of
illegal immigrants. Park said she and Byler, as Asian Americans, are able to
bridge the conflict's undercurrent of antagonism between whites and Hispanics.

"We went into this feeling it was about election-year politics and racism," she
said. "But the more we learn about it, the more we see how multifaceted it is."

In one video viewed 26,000 times in its first week, a group of Latino children
run and play outside the chambers of the Board of County Supervisors, seemingly
oblivious to the charged debate unfolding indoors. A Woodbridge high school
teacher cautions the board's chairman, Corey A. Stewart (R): "The very people
you are trying to oppress today, their children may rise up tomorrow and stand
in judgment of you."

For Byler, an independent director whose 2002 film "Charlotte Sometimes" was
hailed as a "breakthrough for Asian American filmmaking" by critic Roger Ebert,
the roots of the 9500 Liberty project trace to George Allen's calling an Indian
American "macaca" last summer.

Byler, the son of a white U.S. Army officer and a Chinese American mother, spent
much of his childhood in Burke. He said he was teased often about his
appearance.

"Watching George Allen look into the camera and point and say you are not the
real Virginia, the real Virginia is the people who are laughing with me at you,
reminded me of this whole thing that was never resolved," Byler said.

"I've always been sensitive to situations where people are being singled out."

After the macaca incident, Byler and Park moved back to Virginia from Los
Angeles and volunteered for Democrat James Webb's Senate campaign against Allen,
helping to raise money among Asian Americans.

Although they worked on a Democratic campaign and their video clips show a
sympathy for Latino immigrants' fears about racism and discrimination, Byler and
Park have sought to capture all sides of the debate on illegal immigration. One
of their most-viewed videos shows a meeting of the anti-illegal immigrant group
Help Save Manassas, and others include interviews with Stewart, whose reelection
campaign slogan is "Fighting illegal immigration."

"They're really trying to do a service," said George Taplin, director of the
Virginia chapter of the anti-illegal immigrant group Minuteman Civil Defense
Corps, who appears in two videos about the now-defunct Herndon day-laborer
center. Taplin praised the videos' fairness but said he thought the couple's
editorial balance was missing in their administration of viewer comments on
their YouTube page.

"What I'm seeing as far as the reaction is rhetoric and people calling each
other names. That's not going to help anything," Taplin said. "You don't get
dialogue going by fanning hatred and discontent."

Like Taplin, some viewers have accused Byler and Park of censorship for
rejecting their comments on the 9500 Liberty page. Byler and Park maintain that
they are trying to keep the discussion free of hate speech or racism, especially
as viewings of their videos have increased and comments have begun arriving from
viewers elsewhere in the United States and abroad.

"We don't approve the ones that are going to lead to violence," Byler said. Some
of the hate-filled diatribes that arrived in the past week were so disturbing
that they notified federal authorities, he said.

Byler says that viewers need to watch several of the videos to understand the
larger picture of Prince William's illegal-immigration debate. The clips have
appeared on blogs and elicited hundreds of comments. But despite the couple's
efforts at peacemaking, there is little sign of reconciliation in their videos,
though no shortage of resentment, fear and bitterness.

Still, Park said she is not discouraged.

"I see a lot of hope in this," she said. "Ultimately, the only way to heal the
community is to work together to end the fighting and to collaborate on
solutions that address the real grievances people have."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; A scene from one of the videos by three local filmmakers who are
plumbing the debate. One of their videos, about a banner in Manassas opposing
racism, has been viewed 38,000 times.
IMAGE; By Jahi Chikwendiu -- The Washington Post; Eric Byler, left, Jeff Man and
Annabel Park decided to quickly post their footage in a bid to sway the debate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Borderlands;
The fates of the United States and Mexico -- and of all their citizens -- are
inextricably linked.

BYLINE: Reviewed by Pamela Constable

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. BW03

LENGTH: 1676 words


REVOLUTION OF HOPE

The Life, Faith, and Dreams

of A Mexican President

By Vicente Fox and Rob Allyn

Viking. 375 pp. $27.95

EX MEX

From Migrants to Immigrants

By Jorge G. CastaÃ±eda

New Press. 222 pp. $25.95

(forthcoming in December)

MONGRELS, BASTARDS, ORPHANS

AND VAGABONDS

Mexican Immigration and

the Future of Race in America

By Gregory Rodriguez

Pantheon. 317 pp. $26.95

Relations between the United States and Mexico have long been poisoned by the
problems of cross-border migration. The northward human flow has been welcomed
by business but reviled by nativists, distorted by outside wars and
catastrophes, and debated with equal hypocrisy and mistrust in what Vicente Fox,
Mexico's president from 2000 to 2006, calls a "bleak pattern of mutual
misunderstanding."

Most Americans today are probably not in the mood to listen to what Fox, or any
other Mexican, has to say on the subject. With an estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in the country, many Americans feel besieged by a tide of
Spanish-speaking strangers, angry at the U.S. government for failing to stop it,
and unsympathetic to the plight of people who break American laws to escape
poverty their own leaders have failed to alleviate.

But there is another side to the story and thoughtful voices from across the Rio
Grande that need to be heard amid the shrillness of this emotionally charged
moment. They remind us that Mexico, too, is grappling with the issue of how to
feed and keep its workers, that its leaders are also constrained by domestic
politics and posturing, that its emerging democracy is making it a better
neighbor. They also point out that Mexican Americans are a permanent part of our
society and that Mexico's economic future is ultimately linked with ours.

Fox's book, Revolution of Hope, written in English and launched with a U.S.
tour, makes a direct plea to the American people to see Mexican immigrants in a
kinder light. He wants us to have patience with Mexico's fledgling efforts at
political and economic reform, and to seek common solutions rather than building
walls. His tone is often hyperbolic, but his message is heartfelt.

"A Mexican farm boy who crawls across the barbed wire at the Rio Grande
desperately loves his homeland," Fox writes. "Only the gnawing hunger and low
wages on one side of the border, and the golden promise of economic opportunity
on the other" drive him to flee to an alien land where hard, dirty work awaits
him.

Fox views these emigrants, whether legal or illegal, as both Mexican "heroes"
and American assets. He argues that they are helping America compete with global
rivals as well as providing Mexico with an economic safety valve.

A rancher known for blunt, salty language, Fox is both a proud, sentimental
Mexican and an ardent admirer of America. He helped end 70 years of ossified
one-party rule and took office in 2000, eager to open up Mexico's economy and
seek a long-elusive immigration pact with Washington, banking on his friendship
with President Bush.

But as he recounts with deep regret, the prospects for any agreement collapsed
with the attacks of Sep. 11, 2001. A day of terror plunged Washington into a war
Mexico could not support, and gave fearful, angry Americans "a pretext for
acting out their xenophobia." At home, Fox's economic agenda was thwarted by
domestic opponents, and his dream of peaceful democratic transition marred by an
ugly election controversy.

In part, Revolution of Hope is an effort to redeem Fox's legacy. It is laden
with bromides and self-indulgent asides -- the nostalgic memories of his
childhood ranch, the gee-whiz accounts of visiting China or meeting the pope. He
comes across as temperamental but guileless, self-absorbed but humble -- an
appealing persona that has been further tarnished by recent reports of Fox's
lavish, post-presidential lifestyle.

But the book becomes relevant to American readers only when Fox switches from
"I" to "we." When he talks about Mexico's future, he is also talking about ours.
When he lashes out at American insensitivity, he also criticizes Mexican
isolationism. When he lauds the courage of illegal immigrants, he also rues
Mexico's inability to pay them enough to stay. "Our greatest failure," he
confesses, "is that they are leaving still."

Fox is premature in his vision of a North American common market where the free
flow of goods and workers will benefit all sides. As long as wages are 10 times
higher on one side, the flow will remain hopelessly lopsided. But he is
prescient in his parallel arguments about the mutual opportunities and
challenges faced by both countries, and about their inevitable need for each
other in a tough global economy.

Revolution of Hope will not stop the furor over illegal Latino immigrants, but
it does make us ponder the futility of building physical and emotional barriers
against them. Mexico's own history, Fox points out, shows that "we cannot live
forever with a wealthy few inside the walls and the masses locked outside." The
American way of life, he adds, "cannot exist in a Fortress America."

Jorge G. CastaÃ±eda, a Mexican intellectual who served as Fox's foreign
minister, covers much of the same ground in his forthcoming Ex Mex, but he makes
a more tightly argued and documented case for the advantages of Latino
immigration. His monograph, stuffed with statistics, strives for academic
objectivity while acknowledging the author's pro-Mexican bias.

CastaÃ±eda focuses on several issues that help explain the sudden panic over a
phenomenon many decades old. One is the collapse of "circularity," a
longstanding Mexican tradition of seasonal labor migration to the States and
back, which was halted by new immigration laws in the 1990s that stiffened
penalties for immigrants caught sneaking in a second time. Several recessions in
Mexico, an economic boom in the United States and implementation of the North
American Free Trade Agreement also exacerbated the influx of illegal immigrants.

Eventually the surge reached a "tipping point," he says, creating "the
impression that the United States was literally being swamped." Mexican migrants
also moved deeper into U.S. territory, putting down roots in communities with
little exposure to immigrants, "bringing their families to join them in places
where Spanish had never been spoken, chiles and tortillas were never eaten." The
emotional backlash was "inexcusable," he writes, but also "understandable."

But CastaÃ±eda also argues persuasively that the "pull" factor luring illegal
immigrants to U.S. jobs remains as strong as ever, and that they perform tasks
that are too dirty or dangerous to attract native Americans. He focuses on
meatpacking plants in Iowa, where federal immigration agents staged a series of
raids in 2006. Despite public resentment of the workers, he says, 76 percent of
local residents in one poll said immigrants "take jobs other Iowans don't want."

A sharp-eyed student of American politics, CastaÃ±eda offers a trenchant if
jargon-filled analysis of the recent congressional debacle over immigration
reform. He echoes Fox's urgent call for bilateral action, but he warns more
coolly that nothing, neither walls nor deportations, will stop poor Mexicans
from crossing the Rio Grande until the region's severe economic imbalance begins
to change.

Despite its unappealing title, Gregory Rodriguez's Mongrels, Bastards, Orphans,
and Vagabonds provides a fascinating excursion through the history of Mexican
immigrants in the United States. Full of instructive revelations and forgotten
facts, the book shows how the treatment and status of immigrants have always
been hostage to the vicissitudes of history -- from the Gold Rush to the
invasion of Iraq.

The best sections of this book by a MexicanAmerican columnist for the Los
Angeles Times cover events that occurred long ago. But by putting the current
tensions in a solid historical context, Rodriguez offers hope that they too will
eventually subside and be followed by a cooler spell in which a lasting, more
rational solution can prevail over the politics of fear and bigotry.

He first traces the racial history of the Spanish colonial era, when inhabitants
were rigidly stratified according to their mix of Indian, black and European
blood ("Spaniard and Indian beget mestizo, Mestizo and Spanish woman beget
castizo . . . . Barcino and mulatto woman beget coyote" and so on). Moving into
the post-independence era, he explores Mexico's northern cities like San Antonio
and Los Angeles, where the mestizo populace was increasingly challenged by Anglo
settlers.

The U.S. defeat of Mexico's army in 1848 was a victory for both American slavery
and territorial expansion, but the war also sparked debate over "the character
of the Mexicans," whom many whites viewed as a lowly "mongrel race." "Even as
their nation expanded," Rodriguez writes, "Americans recoiled in horror at the
thought of absorbing an alien population."

During the next century, millions of Mexicans immigrated to the United States.
Some managed to rise in society, but far more remained marginalized and subject
to abuse and discrimination from Anglo vigilantes, bosses and pioneers. At the
same time, American dependence on cheap labor from Mexico became an enduring
fact: Workers were first press-ganged to build highways or pick fruit, then
brought in seasonally under the "bracero" temporary labor program. Yet American
society remained ambivalent, welcoming these workers in prosperous times and
turning nativist during recessions.

Today the country is full of frenzied alarm once more, and neither Fox's
personal plea, CastaÃ±eda's reasoned arguments nor Rodriguez's history lesson
can compete with the fear and anger of the times. But on a calmer day, such
thoughtful voices may yet find an audience among concerned Americans who realize
that the fate of Mexico's economy, democracy and human populace is inextricably
linked with ours. Â·

Pamela Constable is a staff writer and former foreign correspondent for The
Washington Post. She has reported periodically from Mexico and Central America
since 1983.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Guillermo Arias / Associated Press; Migrants in Sasabe, Mexico,
cross through a barbed wire fence into the United States.
IMAGE
IMAGE; Marco Ugarte / Associated Press; Children sit under a banner of Vicente
Fox in San Cristobal, Mexico. Fox points out that "we cannot live forever with a
wealthy few inside the walls and the masses locked outside."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 4, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Rise in Latino Enrollment Is Slowing;
25 Percent of Students In County Are Hispanic

BYLINE: Ian Shapira; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 388 words


In the debate over the Prince William Board of County Supervisors' campaign to
tighten regulations on illegal immigrants, one question seems harder to answer
than others: Are Hispanics leaving the county because of the crackdown?

According to data from the county public school system, the answer might be no.

The school system released new figures late last month showing that classes for
English for Speakers of Other Languages, dominated by children of Hispanic
immigrants, grew by 13 percent, to 13,393 students. Overall, the Hispanic
population increased to 18,174 students, or 25 percent of total enrollment.

Aside from anecdotal evidence that construction jobs are dwindling and
money-transfer business has slowed, the school system numbers indicate that the
dramatic increase in the county's Hispanic population has slowed considerably.
Latinos are still flocking to Prince William but not in the same numbers as
before.

For instance, the number of ESOL students climbed by about 19 percent annually
from 2004 to 2006, before dipping this year to a 13 percent rise. The number of
Hispanic students climbed by an average 10 percent annually from 2004 to 2006
and by just more than 6 percent in 2007.

Carol Bass, the school system's ESOL and foreign language supervisor, said it is
difficult to explain what is behind trends.

"It's always based on social, political and economic factors throughout the
world," she said. "One of the realities of ESOL is that it's not predictable."

Bass said she was never worried that the supervisors' measures would dissuade
Hispanics from moving to Prince William or encourage residents to flee en masse.

"We have heard from families that moved out before and moved back and say, 'We
just love what happens in the schools,' " Bass said.

Most of the growth in ESOL enrollment is in elementary schools, Bass said. Most
ESOL students were born in the United States to non-English-speaking parents;
the rest largely are immigrants from El Salvador, Mexico and Honduras.

Bass said the school system's implementation of full-day kindergarten has been
one of the most helpful tools for Spanish-speaking children who are learning
English.

"We know from evaluations that one of the greatest outcomes is that many are
quite proficient by the first grade and go on to become bilingual and
bicultural," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Partying at Immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 81 words


While it is disturbing that  a white employee of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement   costumed himself as an African American prisoner, I find it even
more distressing that such an agency  would even be organizing an "agency
Halloween party" ["There He Goes Again," In the Loop, Nov. 7]. As a
small-business owner, I can assure you that most Americans in the private sector
are not attending Halloween parties at their offices.  ICE needs to grow up and
get a job.

MARY BETH GAIARIN

Oakton

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 14, 2007 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

One Tired, Under-Trained, Overworked Face at the Border

BYLINE: Stephen Barr

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 724 words


There may be "one face at the border," but it's working too much overtime, not
getting enough training and has no voice in how to get the job done. It's all
adding up to fatigue and poor morale.

That's the snapshot of Customs and Border Protection that emerged at a Senate
hearing yesterday that looked into staffing shortfalls at air, sea and land
ports where visitors and citizens cross into the country.

"This is a vicious circle -- understaffing creates problems that lead to
turnover, and high turnover makes it very difficult to address the staff
shortages," said Sen. Daniel K. Akaka (D-Hawaii), who called the hearing as
chairman of the Senate federal workforce subcommittee.

Customs and Border Protection, or CBP, was formed four years ago as part of the
mega-merger that created the Department of Homeland Security. The agency drew
its workers from three formerly distinct staffs: all of the old Customs Service,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service and part of the Department of
Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

The inspectors' duties were rolled into a new position, CBP officer, in what the
agency called its "one face at the border" initiative. The goal was to create a
unified force that would not only counter post-9/11 terrorist threats but also
prevent illegal immigrants and criminals from entering the country and monitor
which goods were being imported.

But Richard M. Stana, director of homeland security and justice issues at the
Government Accountability Office, testified yesterday that auditors who visited
CBP field offices found too few officers and weak inspection practices, such as
not always asking to see identity and travel documents, that permit thousands of
illegal immigrants and criminals to enter the country.

Some officers do not receive training before rotating to new inspection duties,
and officers who lack training rely heavily on senior officers, but many of
those more experienced officers appear to be leaving CBP, a GAO report said.

CBP managers at 19 of 21 field offices told the GAO that staff shortages had
prevented them from carrying out anti-terrorism activities or hampered their use
of radiation monitors and other technologies to inspect cargo and travelers.

The GAO withheld data on staffing from the report because CBP deemed the
information too sensitive for public release. But people who have seen the data
said they show that CBP needs 1,600 to 4,800 more officers and agriculture
specialists. The people provided the information on condition that they not be
identified

Although CBP employs about 17,600 officers at U.S. entry points, the agency has
relied on overtime to keep shifts staffed at a number of its airports, seaports
and border stations, including some that operate around the clock. In fiscal
2006, staffing shortages forced officers to work 4.2 million hours of overtime,
according to the people who saw the CBP data.

Paul M. Morris, executive director of admissibility and passenger programs at
CBP, agreed with Akaka that staffing has become "a vicious circle," with some
field offices in worse shape than others. He noted that turnover has always been
a problem for border agencies, in part because many officers work outdoors and
in stressful conditions.

On average, 71 officers left the agency each two-week pay period in fiscal 2007,
an attrition rate of about 10 percent, CBP said.

Asked by Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-Ohio) whether CBP's salaries are
competitive, Morris said officers hired at the General Schedule 5 level ($25,000
to $33,000 a year in base pay) have trouble making ends meet in high-cost cities
like Los Angeles and New York. The average salary for a CBP officer in field
operations is $58,530.

CBP loses officers to agencies and other employers that pay more or provide a
more generous pension, he said.

Stana said many CBP officers are not satisfied with their working conditions and
"would like more of a say in how things are run." He suggested that CBP
headquarters try to listen more to officers in the field and partner with the
CBP union on workforce issues.

Colleen M. Kelley, president of the National Treasury Employees Union, which
represents CBP officers, said the agency does not invite union cooperation.
"There is zero involvement," she told the subcommittee.

Staff writer Spencer Hsu contributed to this column.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Mexican Leader Sees Bias in U.S. Politicking;
Stop Disparaging Migrants, CalderÃ³n Says

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 14


Mexican President Felipe CalderÃ³n took the unusual step Wednesday of injecting
himself into U.S. presidential politics, calling Mexican migrants "thematic
hostages" of the race and urging candidates not to use them as a talking point.

Speaking at a conference here, CalderÃ³n criticized what he called "the growing
harassment" of Mexicans in the United States and said his administration  would
finance a media campaign to underline immigrant success stories.

CalderÃ³n made his remarks one day before his environment minister, Rafael
Elvira Quesada, is scheduled to release a report concluding that the U.S.-Mexico
border wall is damaging the environment.

CalderÃ³n's statement on the U.S. presidential race caught many people here by
surprise. Addressing delegates at a conference sponsored by the Mexican
government agency that assists migrants, he said: "It is my duty to make a
respectful but firm call to the candidates of the various political parties in
the United States for them to stop using Mexicans in that country as thematic
hostages of their speeches and their strategies."

CalderÃ³n has frequently criticized U.S. immigration policy, as do many
Mexicans. But it is unusual for a Mexican president to make such a direct
comment about U.S. presidential campaign strategies.

Immigration has emerged as a hot-button issue in the 2008 presidential contest,
consistently ranking high on the list of voter concerns and figuring prominently
in debates. Immigration also tops a list of issues that voters in the Jan. 3
Iowa caucuses want candidates to address, according to a CBS-New York Times poll
released Tuesday. And 44 percent of caucus-goers want illegal immigrants to lose
their jobs and leave the country, the poll said.

A poll by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press released two
weeks ago found that 65 percent of Republican voters and 50 percent of
Democratic voters ranked illegal immigration as a "very important" issue.

Republican candidate Fred Thompson has proposed taking federal grant money from
so-called sanctuary cities in the United States that do not report illegal
immigrants to the federal government. Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) has run
television ads saying migrants cross the border "to take our jobs."

The potency of the immigration issue has been highlighted by the furor over Sen.
Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) speaking favorably about a plan to grant
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants in New York state. Some analysts have
said Clinton's recent drop in the polls was caused in part by her comments about
the license plan, which was dropped Wednesday by Democratic Gov. Eliot L.
Spitzer of New York.

Given the national focus on immigration, it is very unlikely that candidates
would heed CalderÃ³n's call, Michael Dimock, associate director of the Pew
Research Center, said in a telephone interview.

"Good luck," Dimock said of CalderÃ³n's plea. "It's a potentially powerful
voting issue for a significant segment of the electorate."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; CalderÃ³n plans media campaign on immigrant successes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2007 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Every Edition

Fairfax Community Events Nov. 15-22, 2007

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA24

LENGTH: 1995 words

Thursday  15

IMMIGRATION STUDY REVIEW,  the Fairfax Area League of Women Voters reviews
material on federal enforcement policies and coordinating U.S. foreign policy
with immigration law. 9:30 a.m., Annandale Community Park, Packard Center, 4022
Hummer Rd., Annandale, and 7:45 p.m., Mount Vernon District Governmental Center,
2511 Parkers Lane, Fort Hunt area. Free. 703-658-9150 or
http://www.lwv-fairfax.org.

CENTREVILLE MOTHERS FIRST MEETING,  a support group for women who have left
careers to raise their children. 10:15 a.m., Centreville Regional Library, 14200
St. Germain Dr. $28 annual membership fee. 703-827-5922 or
http://www.mothersfirst.org.

FRIDAY MORNING MUSIC CLUB,  pianist Bill Taylor and bassoonist Mark Noble
perform a prelude and scherzo for bassoon and piano; soprano Peggy Tarr McNulty
and pianist Gillian Cookson perform works by Mendelssohn; and duo-pianists
Sophia Pallas and Julian Trail perform "Three English Dances, Op. 11," by Roger
Quilter. 11 a.m.-noon, Old Town Hall, 3999 University Dr., Fairfax. Free.
703-352-2787 or http://www.fairfaxarts.org.

RICHARD GERE MOVIE,  "Shall We Dance," co-starring Jennifer Lopez; bring snacks.
1-3 p.m., Vienna Community Center, 120 Cherry St. SE, Vienna. Free.
703-255-6360.

CRAFT FESTIVAL,  juried crafts and art, antiques, a silent auction, a bake sale
and more. 4-9 p.m. today, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. tomorrow, 10 a.m.-2 p.m. Saturday, St.
Matthew's United Methodist Church, 8617 Little River Tpk., Annandale. Free
admission. 703-425-3376.

"YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU,"  performed by the West Springfield High School
Theatre Department. 7:30 p.m. today-tomorrow, 2 and 7:30 p.m. Saturday, the
school, 6100 Rolling Rd., Springfield. $12; students, $10. 703-913-3800.

POTOMAC ROSE SOCIETY MEETING,  rosarian Joe Mirilovich discusses "Which Roses
Performed Well in 2007," and "Rosebush Winterization." Light refreshments
served. 7:30-9:30 p.m., McLean Governmental Center, 1437 Balls Hill Rd., McLean.
Free. 301-869-4948 or http://www.potomacrose.org.

WOLF TRAP CONCERT,  by singer-songwriter and guitarist Jonatha Brooke. 8 p.m.,
the Barns at Wolf Trap, 1635 Trap Rd., Vienna. $22. 703-938-2404.

Friday  16

CITRUS FRUIT SALE,  pink grapefruit, oranges and tangerines, plus maple syrup,
for sale to raise funds for youths, patriotic activities and veterans' needs. 8
a.m.-6 p.m. Friday, 8 a.m.-noon Saturday, American Legion Post 270, 1355 Balls
Hill Rd., McLean. 703-356-8259 or http://www.mcleanpost270.org.

ART AWARDS RECEPTION,  for the Vienna Arts Society's 38th annual juried show,
featuring oil paintings, watercolors, acrylic paintings, collages, mixed media,
pastel works, drawings, photographs, textiles, pottery, glass works and
sculptures. Reception, 7-9 p.m. Friday; show, 10 a.m.-9 p.m. Friday and Saturday
and noon-4 p.m. Sunday, Vienna Community Center, 120 Cherry St. SE. Free
admission. 703-255-6360.

"SHILOH" AUTHOR TALK,  Phyllis Reynolds Naylor, author of the "Shiloh" books
about a boy and a dog, discusses the series. 7 p.m., Fairfax County Government
Center, Board Auditorium, 12000 Government Center Pkwy., Fairfax. Free;
registration required. 703-324-8428.

"THE WIZARD OF OZ," performed by the Mount Vernon Community Children's Theatre.
7:30 p.m. Friday-Saturday, 3 p.m. Sunday, Carl Sandburg Middle School, 8428 Fort
Hunt Rd., Fort Hunt area. $10; children and seniors, $8. 703-360-0686 or
http://www.mvcct.org.

FORT HUNT AREA DANCE,  for all ages, big-band music by the Mount Vernon Swing
Band. 7:30-9:30 p.m., Hollin Hall Senior Center, 1500 Shenandoah Rd., Fort Hunt
area. $4. 703-765-4573.

"GUYS AND DOLLS,"  performed by the Reston Community Players. 8 p.m.
Friday-Saturday, CenterStage, Reston Community Center, 2301 Colts Neck Rd.
Friday, $17 (seniors and students, $14); Saturday, all ages, $20. 703-476-4500
or http://www.restonplayers.org.

CHORAL CONCERT,  the City Choir of Washington performs Handel's "Solomon." 8
p.m., Northern Virginia Community College, Rachel M. Schlesinger Concert Hall
and Arts Center, 3001 N. Beauregard St., Alexandria. $54, $43, $26; students,
$40, $30, $15. 703-622-7992 or http://www.thecitychoirofwashington.org.

ANNANDALE ORCHESTRA CONCERT,  by the NVCC-Annandale Symphony Orchestra. 8 p.m.,
Ernst Community Cultural Center, Northern Virginia Community College, 8333
Little River Tpk., Annandale. $15; seniors and teenagers, $10; 12 and younger,
free. 703-569-0973.

"1984" PLAY,  the Actors' Gang, directed by Tim Robbins, performs a new
adaptation of the George Orwell novel.  8 p.m., George Mason University, Center
for the Arts Concert Hall, 4400 University Dr., Fairfax. $34, $26, $17.
888-945-2468 or http://http://www.tickets.com.

LIVINGSTON TAYLOR CONCERT,  8 p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, the Barns at Wolf
Trap, 1635 Trap Rd., Vienna. $20. 703-938-2404 or http://www.wolftrap.org.

Saturday  17

ROCKETTES PERFORMANCE,  for age 6 and older, a charter bus trip to Radio City
Music Hall in New York  for the "Christmas Spectacular," starring the Rockettes.
Trip sponsored by the Vienna Parks and Recreation Department. 8 a.m.-midnight,
bus departs from Vienna Community Center, 120 Cherry St. SE. $110; Vienna
residents, $95. 703-255-6360.

FAIRFAX CITY JURIED CRAFT SHOW,  sale of crafts by more than 200 craftspeople.
Santa Claus will visit  Saturday. 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m.-3 p.m.
Sunday, Fairfax High School, 3500 Old Lee Hwy., Fairfax City. $3. 703-385-7858.

GEM, MINERAL AND FOSSIL SHOW,  more than 20 gem, mineral and fossil dealers sell
specimens. Demonstrations, exhibits, door prizes, a silent auction and kids'
activities, including quizzes, puzzles and mini mines, and a "Miocene  fossil
dig" for free specimens. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Sunday,
Northern Virginia Community College, Student Union II building, 8333 Little
River Tpk., Annandale. $4; seniors and ages 13-18, $2; 12 and younger, free.
703-281-3767.

JURIED CRAFT SHOW,  works of more than 40 artists and artisans, including
jewelry, holiday and home decor items, sponsored by the Crew Boosters. 10 a.m.-4
p.m., Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, 6560 Braddock
Rd., Alexandria. Free admission. 703-425-6256.

MASON NECK BIRDING BY THE BAY,  walk with park staff to look for songbirds,
waterfowl and bald eagles. 10:15 a.m. Saturdays in November, Mason Neck State
Park, meet at the Bay View Trailhead, 7301 High Point Rd., Lorton. Free.
703-339-2385.

FLORAL DESIGN WORKSHOP,  Northern Virginia Community College instructor Bruce
Nash discusses his designs and helps participants make a Thanksgiving
centerpiece to take home. 2-4 p.m., Green Spring Gardens Park, 4603 Green Spring
Rd., Alexandria area. $45, includes floral material, greens and containers;
registration required. 703-642-5173.

HERNDON TURKEY TROT 5K RACE,  for adults and children. Registration, 2-3:30
p.m.; race, 4 p.m., Herndon Centennial Golf Course, 909 Ferndale Ave. Race-day
registration: $15 plus a can of food for the needy; 17 and younger, $10 plus a
can of food. Preregistration: all ages, $10 plus a can of food. 703-787-7300 or
http://www.active.com.

MILL RUN DULCIMER BAND CONCERT,  the final concert of the season. 7-9 p.m.,
Colvin Run Mill, 10017 Colvin Run Rd., Great Falls. Free. 703-759-2771.

FALLS CHURCH "TELLABRATION,"  for adults and children, storytelling by members
of Voices in the Glen. Light refreshments provided. 8 p.m., Tysons-Pimmit
Regional Library, 7584 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church. Free. 703-698-5456.

GEORGIAN STATE DANCE COMPANY,  performances by the folk troupe of classically
trained ballet dancers from the former Soviet Republic of Georgia.  Discussion
45 minutes before each performance. 8 p.m. Saturday, 4 p.m. Sunday, George Mason
University, Center for the Arts Concert Hall, 4400 University Dr., Fairfax. $46,
$38, $23; children, half-price. 888-945-2468 or http://www.tickets.com.

MCLEAN FOLK CONCERT,  chanteys, folk music, bluegrass and Celtic ballads by the
Woods Tea Company. 8 p.m., McLean Community Center, Alden Theatre, 1234
Ingleside Ave. $27; McLean residents, $22. 703-790-0123.

RESTON COMMUNITY ORCHESTRA, concert featuring oboist Sue Adney. 8 p.m., Reston
Community Center, 2310 Colts Neck Rd. Donations accepted. 703-476-4500 or
http://www.restoncommunityorchestra.org.

BALLROOM AND LATIN DANCING, music by the Helmut Licht Orchestra. Cha-cha lesson,
8 p.m.; dance, 9-11:30 p.m., Colvin Run Schoolhouse, 10201 Colvin Run Rd., Great
Falls. $12; lesson, $5. 703-534-2246 or http://www.colvinrundance.com.

Sunday  18

TEA PROGRAM,  a lesson on  "The Art of Napkin-Folding," to dress up your table
for any occasion, followed by a traditional English tea. 1-3 p.m., Green Spring
Gardens Park, 4603 Green Spring Rd., Alexandria area. $25; reservations
required. 703-941-7987.

CHILDREN'S MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT,  for age 4 and older, the group Hot Peas and
Butter performs. 3 p.m., McLean Community Center, Alden Theatre, 1234 Ingleside
Ave., McLean. $14; McLean residents, $10. 703-790-0123.

CAPITAL WIND SYMPHONY CONCERT. 3 p.m., Northern Virginia Community College,
Rachel M. Schlesinger Concert Hall, 3001 N. Beauregard St., Alexandria. $15;
seniors and students, $10; 6 and younger, free. 703-938-3521 or
http://www.capitalwinds.org.

CLASSICAL CHAMBER CONCERT,  by the Amadeus Virtuosi group, with soprano Jessica
Swink. 4 p.m., St. Francis Episcopal Church, 9220 Georgetown Pike, Great Falls.
$30; 17 and younger, free. 703-759-5334 or http://www.amadeusconcerts.com.

MASON NECK EAGLE SEARCH,  meet park staff and search for bald eagles. Binoculars
and spotting scope available to use. 4:15 p.m. Sunday and Nov. 25, Mason Neck
State Park, meet at the bird blind at the end of Eagle Spur Trail, 7301 High
Point Rd., Lorton. Free. 703-339-2385.

"PHIL OCHS SONG NIGHT,"  performed by Pat Wictor, Kim and Reggie Harris, Magpie,
John Flynn and Greg Greenway. 7 p.m., Church of the Resurrection, 2280 N.
Beauregard St., Alexandria. $20. 703-380-3151 or http://www.focusmusic.org.

CITY OF FALLS CHURCH CONCERT BAND,  performance, with trumpet soloist Sgt. Maj.
Chuck Seipp of the U.S. Army Band. 7 p.m., Annandale United Methodist Church,
6935 Columbia Pike, Annandale. Free. 703-256-8330 or
http://www.fallschurchconcertband.org.

BLUEGRASS CONCERT, by Dead Men's Hollow. 7 p.m. Jewish Community Center of
Northern Virginia, Eva W. and Albert Chaiken Auditorium, 8900 Little River Tpk.,
Fairfax. $12; members, $10. 703-537-3060 or http://www.jccnv.org.

SPRINGFIELD BINGO,  for age 12 and older, no smoking permitted, youths 12-17
must be accompanied by an adult. 7 p.m. Sundays and Tuesdays, Greater
Springfield Volunteer Fire Department, 7011 Backlick Rd. $1-$35. 703-569-9828.

Monday  19

FAIRFAX COUNTY BOARD MEETING, 9 a.m., Fairfax County Government Center, the
Board Auditorium, 12000 Government Center Pkwy. 703-324-3151.

"GREEN CLEANING,"  Patricia Hervey and Lisa Wilson discuss environmentally safe
ways to clean. Examples of homemade solutions will be shown. A meeting of the
Sierra Club. 7:30-9 p.m., Reston Community Center at Lake Anne, 1609 Washington
Plaza, Reston. Free. 703-506-4310.

VIENNA TOWN COUNCIL MEETING, 8 p.m., Vienna Town Hall, Council Chambers, 127
Center St. S. 703-255-6303.

Tuesday  20

MOUNT VERNON GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY,  Susannah Brooks discusses "Buried Births:
Finding Birth Information in Federal Records." 1 p.m., Hollin Hall Senior
Center, 1500 Shenandoah Rd., Fort Hunt area. Free. 703-360-0920 or
http://www.mvgenealogy.org.

HERNDON TOWN COUNCIL MEETING, 7 p.m., Herndon Council Chambers, 765 Lynn St.
703-435-6804.

-- Compiled by JEAN MACK

To Submit an Item

E-mail: fxextra@washpost.com

Fax:  703-273-2836

Mail:  Community Events, The Washington Post, Fairfax Extra, 4020 University
Dr., Suite 220, Fairfax, Va. 22030

Details:  Announcements are accepted on a space-available basis from public and
nonprofit organizations only and must be received at least 14 days before the
Thursday publication date. Include event name, dates, times, exact address,
prices and a publishable contact phone number.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Fairfax South

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2007



CORRECTION: Â· The Nov. 15 Fairfax Extra's Community Events calendar listed an
incorrect location for the 16th Annual Gem, Mineral & Fossil Show. The show will
be today and tomorrow at George Mason University, Student Union II Building,
4400 University Dr. in Fairfax County.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 19, 2007 Monday
                                Regional Edition

America the Unwelcoming

BYLINE: Fareed Zakaria

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 790 words


As an immigrant, I've always loved Thanksgiving. But the Thanksgiving tradition
I try strenuously to avoid is travel. The 27 million people traveling this week
should brace themselves for massive delays and frayed tempers. President Bush
announced measures to ease congestion, describing this week as "a season of
dread for too many Americans." I wish he would remember that for foreigners
traveling to America, the dread is acute and has lasted far longer than a few
days in November.

Most Americans have heard stories about absurd hassles and humiliations for
people entering or exiting the country. But these pale next to the experiences
of foreigners who commit minor infractions. A tourist from New Zealand, Rick
Giles, mistakenly overstayed his visa by a few days and was arrested and held
for six weeks this fall. Treaty obligations say his country's embassy should
have been informed of the arrest, but it wasn't. A German visitor, Valeria
Vinnikova, overstayed her visa by a couple of days and tried to remedy the
situation -- so she could spend more time with her fiance, a Dartmouth College
squash coach. Instead, she was handcuffed and shackled, then carted off to jail.
She faces deportation and a 10-year ban on entering the United States. (Thanks
to Andrew Sullivan's blog for drawing attention to these cases.)

The United States is the only major country to which travel has declined during
a global tourism boom. This is not about Arabs or Muslims. The number of
Japanese visiting America fell to 3.6 million last year from 5 million in 2000.
The numbers have begun to increase, but by 2010 they're still projected to be 19
percent below 2000 levels. Over the same span, global tourism is expected to
have grown 44 percent.

The most striking statistic involves tourists from Britain, America's closest
ally. For Brits, the United States these days is Filene's Basement. The pound is
worth $2, a 47 percent increase in six years. Yet between 2000 and 2006, the
number of Britons visiting America declined 11 percent. Over that same period,
British travel to India rose 102 percent, to New Zealand 106 percent, to Turkey
82 percent and to the Caribbean 31 percent. British travel Web sites are filled
with horror stories about the inconvenience and indignity of traveling to
America.

For many, the trials begin before arrival.  Getting a visa to enter the United
States has become a laborious process. It takes, on average, 69 days in Mumbai,
65 days in Sao Paolo and 44 days in Shanghai simply to process a request.
Business travel to the United States fell 10 percent between 2004 and 2005 (the
most recent data available), while such travel to Europe increased 8 percent.
Discover America, which is funded by the travel industry, estimates that the 17
percent overall decline in tourism since Sept. 11, 2001, has cost America $94
billion in lost tourist spending, 200,000 jobs and $16 billion in tax revenue.

The administration and Congress have passed a few measures to improve matters
and insist that the problem has been solved. But the data and loads of anecdotal
evidence suggest otherwise. The basic problem remains: No bureaucrat wants to be
the person who lets in a terrorist. As a result, when one spots any irregularity
-- no matter how minor -- the reflex is to stop, question, harass, arrest and
deport. If hundreds of thousands of foreigners are upset, so what? If one day a
jihadist manages to slip in, woe to the person who stamped his passport. The
incentives are badly skewed.

In his 2004 book, "Why Courage Matters," Sen. John McCain wrote: "Get on the
damn elevator! Fly on the damn plane! Calculate the odds of being harmed by a
terrorist. It's still about as likely as being swept out to sea by a tidal
wave." He added what seemed like a sound rule of thumb: "Watch the terrorist
alert and go outside again when it falls below yellow."

Except that since Sept. 11, the alert has never dropped below yellow, meaning an
"elevated" risk of terrorist attack. At airports, we have been almost
permanently at orange, or "high risk." Yet while the Department of Homeland
Security admits that "there continues to be no credible information at this time
warning of an imminent threat to the homeland," its "strategic threat
perspective" says "we are in a period of increased risk." What is this
"strategic perspective"? Is it the same as the "gut feeling" Secretary Michael
Chertoff cited when he warned (erroneously) in July that we were likely to be
attacked during the summer? Or is it a bureaucratic mind-set, the technical term
for which is CYA?

The writer is editor of Newsweek International and co-host of PostGlobal, an
online discussion of international issues. His e-mail address is
comments@fareedzakaria.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 19, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Health Care Lost in Translation;
Consulates Try to Help Their Nationals Get the Basics

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 886 words


With a comprehensive immigration overhaul now perhaps years away, Latin American
governments concerned with the well-being of their nationals living in this
country are taking on an equally thorny issue: the U.S. health-care system.

In Washington, some foreign consulates are providing eye exams and medical tests
in addition to the traditional passport renewals and marriage registrations.

The Salvadoran consulate, which serves the largest immigrant group in the
Washington area, began offering "Estaciones de Salud" (Health Stations) two
years ago. The Mexican consulate followed suit last year, offering similar
health services that it hopes to expand to its 47 consulates throughout the
United States by year's end.

"My health is important," said Luz de MarÃ­a MejÃ­a, 34, a nanny and restaurant
worker who came to the United States four years ago without papers. She found
navigating the health-care system "extremely complicated" and has turned to the
Salvadoran consulate for help.

JosÃ© Rigoberto MartÃ­nez, a burly, 48-year-old carpenter with a temporary work
permit, said he believes that immigrants tend to neglect their health.

"If we have a headache but there is work, we work," he said.

While waiting to get his blood pressure checked, MartÃ­nez said he has never
received medical treatment, other than a few visits to a chiropractor. He
stopped seeing the chiropractor because getting time off work and justifying $45
a visit proved prohibitive.

Seventy-five percent of the more than 3,600 Salvadorans and Mexicans who
received medical attention at their consulates in Washington this year had not
had a medical checkup in the past three years, said German Valbuena, director of
the local Hispanic Institute for Blindness Prevention, the lead agency running
both consulates' health programs.

Salvadoran Consul General Ana Margarita ChÃ¡vez said that soon after arriving in
Washington, she fell ill and realized how expensive health care is in the United
States. On average, 50 people a week received health services last year at the
consulate. Those services normally include a referral to a health center or
clinic that offers care regardless of the patient's economic or immigration
status.

Mexico's secretary of health, JosÃ© Ãngel CÃ³rdova, said in a telephone
interview that his government wants Mexican nationals in this country to have
the "peace of mind of having access to basic health services."

As part of his government's goal of providing universal health care by 2010,
CÃ³rdova said he hopes to provide "health care to all Mexicans regardless of
where they are."

"The migratory phenomenon has been growing [around the world], and it is
something we will be grappling with for some time. I believe there should be
agreements among countries to guarantee a basic service such as health,"
CÃ³rdova said.

Although  U.S. authorities might not share CÃ³rdova's goal of universal health
care, they don't deny the universality of the problem.

"From our perspective, there is no border in terms of health anymore," said
William Steiger, director of the Office of Global Health Affairs at the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services. "We know that not just immigrants but
travelers in this age of globalization can represent a challenge because they
can bring diseases and export them as well."

Steiger cited  recent measles cases brought to the United States by Japanese
boys coming for the Little League World Series.

As part of efforts to protect Americans, Steiger said the department is
responsible for the health of refugee populations within the United States and
focuses efforts overseas on preventing diseases from reaching U.S. territory.
Those efforts, he added, are not unique to the United States. Other countries
are just as interested in ensuring that disease does not reach their
populations.

"Good health is a positive-sum game for all us," he said.

Steiger and CÃ³rdova said the United States and Mexico are beginning to explore
some innovative ideas, such as a binational health plan that would provide
coverage to Americans living in Mexico and Mexicans living in this country.

Aware that there are many more Mexicans here than Americans there, CÃ³rdova
suggested that a plan could fully cover U.S. citizens in Mexico but would  offer
only primary care to Mexicans here. After all, he said, most Mexican immigrants
are young and healthy, and primary health care  covers 85 percent of diseases.
Those with more serious problems could be sent to Mexico for treatment, he said.

Often employed in low-wage jobs in small service- or trade-sector firms, Latin
American immigrants are less likely to receive health benefits than the average
resident of the United States. This might be a large factor in the rise in the
number of the uninsured. In 2003,  immigrants represented more than one of every
four uninsured individuals in the United States, according to the Employee
Benefit Research Institute.

In a 2005 report, the institute said that "immigrants accounted for about
one-third of the increase in the uninsured between 1994 and 1998." But after the
1996 welfare reform that restricted access to public assistance programs to
immigrants with more than five years of legal residency, "immigrants accounted
for 86 percent of the growth in the uninsured between 1998 and 2003," the report
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Kevin Clark -- The Washington Post; German Valbuena,
right, gives an eye exam last month to Daniel Parades in a trailer of the
Hispanic Institute for Blindness Prevention. The trailer visited a multicultural
festival at Leesylvania State Park in Prince William County.
IMAGE; Angelica Castro checks health literature in the institute's trailer
during the Leesylvania visit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrant Paperwork Backs Up At DHS;
Delays May Deny Vote to Hundreds Of Thousands

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1198 words


The Department of Homeland Security failed to prepare for a massive influx of
applications for U.S. citizenship and other immigration benefits this summer,
prompting complaints from Hispanic leaders and voter-mobilization groups that
several hundred thousand people  likely will not be granted citizenship in time
to cast ballots in the 2008 presidential election.

Bush administration officials said yesterday that they had anticipated
applicants would rush to file their paperwork to beat a widely publicized fee
increase that took effect July 30, but did not expect the scale of the response.
The backlog comes just months after U.S. officials failed to prepare for tougher
border security requirements that triggered months-long delays for millions of
Americans seeking passports.

Before the fee hike, citizenship cases typically took about seven months to
complete. Now, immigration officials can take five months or more just to
acknowledge receipt of applications from parts of the country and will take 16
to 18 months on average to process applications filed after June 1, according to
officials from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is part of DHS.
Such a timeline would push many prospective citizens well past
voter-registration deadlines for the 2008 primaries and the general elections.

"We expected [the fee increase] might stimulate demand from some folks to file
who wouldn't have otherwise, and some from folks to file earlier than they would
have," said Michael Aytes, associate director of USCIS, "but we never
anticipated" the extent of the growth. "It went off the charts," he said.

Other factors include legal immigrants' anxiety at an increasingly harsh tenor
of the political debate over illegal immigration, and heightened interest in the
2008 presidential election, officials said.

The immigration agency's workload has nearly doubled, Aytes said, with 1.4
million naturalization applications arriving from October 2006 to September
2007, compared with 731,000 applications the year before. Between July and
September of this year alone, USCIS received 560,000 applications, he said.

The number of green-card-related applications surged to 876,000 in fiscal 2007,
from 497,000 in fiscal 2006, he said. At one point this summer, USCIS had 1
million applications and checks waiting to be opened and acknowledged, Aytes
said, a backlog that now stands at 235,000. Overall, USCIS received 7.7 million
applications for all types of immigration benefits, up from 6.3 million.

"I really want to target the elections," USCIS Director Emilio T. Gonzalez told
the Associated Press in an interview published Tuesday. "I really want to get as
many people out there to vote as possible."

Aides, however, contradicted him. "We are going to process these cases as
responsibly and as quickly as we can, but we're not focused on any of the
election cycle," Aytes said. USCIS spokesman Bill Wright emphasized that
political calculations played no role in agency decisions. "Any implication of
that is ludicrous," he said.

In June, poor planning and coordination between DHS and the State Department
forced the Bush administration to temporarily suspend a new security requirement
that Americans present passports when flying to and from Canada, Mexico, the
Caribbean and Bermuda. Processing times for passport applications ballooned from
three weeks to three or four months, jeopardizing summer travel plans for
millions of Americans. Wait times returned to normal after the State Department
allocated more resources and staffing.

The new crunch -- which some USCIS officials have dubbed a "frontlog" --
threatens to create a political headache that also stems in part from a
State-DHS miscommunication. In addition to raising immigration fees this summer,
the Bush administration triggered another cascade of applications for legal
permanent residency, or green cards, from skilled immigrant workers when it
pushed back a planned July 2 deadline, largely because the two departments
failed to coordinate on how many slots were available.

"It is the same pattern," said Crystal Williams, deputy director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "It strikes me as remarkable. It's not as if
this could not have been predicted."

Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), who chairs a House immigration subcommittee, said
prospective citizens' ability to vote could be delayed, even though USCIS
justified what she called its "outrageous" fee increases by saying they would
pay to improve efficiency and speed processing. Citizenship applicants by rule
must have lived in the United States at least three to five years and
established stable lives. Roughly 85 percent of applicants are approved.

Citizenship application fees -- including electronic fingerprinting fees -- rose
from $410 to $675 on July 30.

"These are people who want to be Americans . . . and to not allow them to
participate in one of the fundamental [rights] of a democracy, which is voting,
is a real problem," Lofgren said.

The immigration agency breakdown comes at a sensitive time. President Bush's
immigration overhaul legislation failed in the Senate this summer, intensifying
a heated national debate in which most Republican presidential candidates are
using get-tough rhetoric on border security to mobilize voters agitated over
immigration. Democratic contenders are supporting more comprehensive measures,
seeking to attract support from Hispanic voters who may be put off by the harder
GOP line.

"We have a huge concern on the impact of efforts for people to be able to vote
in time for the primaries," said William A. Ramos, Washington spokesman for the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, which along with
Spanish-language media and labor unions has supported voter-registration efforts
in potential swing states with large immigrant populations, including
California, New York, New Jersey, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, Colorado and
Florida.

Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the 1.9 million-member Service
Employees International Union, said immigrants who want to assimilate into U.S.
culture and politics are being let down. "I think the overwhelming response of
immigrants is 'We do want to be part of this country, but we also want our
voices heard,' " he said. "Unfortunately, due to the incompetence of the federal
agency, they may not be able to register their opinions."

Sandra Flores, 26, of Houston said she applied for citizenship July 30 but has
not heard back from USCIS. "I'm worried. I feel frustrated," said Flores, a
part-time student at San Jacinto College who immigrated with her family from
Monterrey, Mexico, in 1995, and who said citizenship would give her a vote, a
greater sense of security and a better chance to attend a university.

Mildred Molina de Andujar, 42, of Dorchester, Mass., a janitor at Boston's John
Hancock building, said she applied July 26. USCIS told her only last week that
it had received her application.

"The most important thing for me is the right to vote," said Andujar, who
immigrated from the Dominican Republic in 1993 and has a 17-year-old daughter
with a green card and a 10-year-old son who is a U.S. citizen by birth.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 24, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Decency on Immigration;
Apart from John McCain, it's hard to find that quality in the Republican
presidential contest.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 494 words


THE SPEAKER was discussing the human face of illegal immigration. "People are
continuing dying in the Sonoran desert, and it's just a very sad thing to see,"
he said. "One 3-year-old baby died, a 16-year-old girl with a rosary in her
hand. There's a side of this that grieves me terribly. These are God's children.
They're not from another planet, and the whole thing . . . frankly, this whole
issue saddens me a great deal."

These statements were moving, but they would not have been especially remarkable
except for the fact that the person speaking is a presidential candidate -- a
Republican presidential candidate, in fact -- at a time when the campaign has
taken a particularly toxic tone when it comes to the issue of immigration. In a
meeting with  Post editors and reporters the other day, Arizona Sen. John McCain
described the toll that he believes his championing of comprehensive immigration
reform took on his campaign. "It was the issue of immigration that hurt my
campaign," he said. "I have not encountered a domestic issue that has provoked
the emotional response that this issue does with a lot of Americans."

Indeed, even as Mr. McCain was speaking, his GOP rivals were busy turning an
ugly immigration debate even uglier. Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney,
who said in 2005 he thought that the McCain-Kennedy comprehensive immigration
approach was "sensible," and former New York mayor

Rudolph W. Giuliani, who as mayor protected illegal immigrants from being
reported to immigration authorities when they sought police protection or
hospital care, competed to see who could sound toughest.

"As governor, I opposed driver's licenses for illegals, vetoed tuition breaks
for illegals and combated sanctuary city policies by authorizing the state
police to enforce federal immigration law," Mr. Romney said in a statement. "As
president, I will secure the border and reject sanctuary policies by cities,
states or the federal government."

The Giuliani campaign shot back, in a statement by communications director Katie
Levinson: "On Governor Romney's watch, the number of illegal immigrants in
Massachusetts skyrocketed, aid to Massachusetts sanctuary cities went through
the roof and Governor Romney even went so far as to hire illegals to work on his
lawn." Mr. Romney and former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson have also taken
shots at former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee for allowing the children of
illegal immigrants in Arkansas to qualify for in-state tuition and academic
scholarships if they graduated from high school there. As Mr. Huckabee told Fox
News, "the basic concept, and I know this is still an anathema to some people, I
don't believe you punish the children for the crime and sins of the parents."

Illegal immigration provokes strong emotions, understandably so. But it would
behoove all the candidates to engage in a little less chest-thumping and speak
with more of the decency and compassion that  Mr. McCain exhibited.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Decency on Immigration;
Apart from John McCain, it's hard to find that quality in the Republican
presidential contest.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 494 words


THE SPEAKER was discussing the human face of illegal immigration. "People are
continuing dying in the Sonoran desert, and it's just a very sad thing to see,"
he said. "One 3-year-old baby died, a 16-year-old girl with a rosary in her
hand. There's a side of this that grieves me terribly. These are God's children.
They're not from another planet, and the whole thing . . . frankly, this whole
issue saddens me a great deal."

These statements were moving, but they would not have been especially remarkable
except for the fact that the person speaking is a presidential candidate -- a
Republican presidential candidate, in fact -- at a time when the campaign has
taken a particularly toxic tone when it comes to the issue of immigration. In a
meeting with  Post editors and reporters the other day, Arizona Sen. John McCain
described the toll that he believes his championing of comprehensive immigration
reform took on his campaign. "It was the issue of immigration that hurt my
campaign," he said. "I have not encountered a domestic issue that has provoked
the emotional response that this issue does with a lot of Americans."

Indeed, even as Mr. McCain was speaking, his GOP rivals were busy turning an
ugly immigration debate even uglier. Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney,
who said in 2005 he thought that the McCain-Kennedy comprehensive immigration
approach was "sensible," and former New York mayor

Rudolph W. Giuliani, who as mayor protected illegal immigrants from being
reported to immigration authorities when they sought police protection or
hospital care, competed to see who could sound toughest.

"As governor, I opposed driver's licenses for illegals, vetoed tuition breaks
for illegals and combated sanctuary city policies by authorizing the state
police to enforce federal immigration law," Mr. Romney said in a statement. "As
president, I will secure the border and reject sanctuary policies by cities,
states or the federal government."

The Giuliani campaign shot back, in a statement by communications director Katie
Levinson: "On Governor Romney's watch, the number of illegal immigrants in
Massachusetts skyrocketed, aid to Massachusetts sanctuary cities went through
the roof and Governor Romney even went so far as to hire illegals to work on his
lawn." Mr. Romney and former Tennessee senator Fred Thompson have also taken
shots at former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee for allowing the children of
illegal immigrants in Arkansas to qualify for in-state tuition and academic
scholarships if they graduated from high school there. As Mr. Huckabee told Fox
News, "the basic concept, and I know this is still an anathema to some people, I
don't believe you punish the children for the crime and sins of the parents."

Illegal immigration provokes strong emotions, understandably so. But it would
behoove all the candidates to engage in a little less chest-thumping and speak
with more of the decency and compassion that  Mr. McCain exhibited.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Chairman Charts New Course;
Prince William's Stewart Seeks to Move Beyond Immigration Issue

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1229 words


Fresh off his second election victory in consecutive years, Prince William Board
of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart styles himself as a catalyst for
change within the state Republican Party on a variety of issues. He says he
doesn't want to be pigeonholed as a one-note politician.

It might be hard for him to shake that impression.

Stewart was on summer vacation in Canada when another supervisor introduced a
resolution to deny certain public services to illegal immigrants. But he seized
on the proposal, pushing it through the board in the weeks before his
reelection. Stewart, 39, who speaks in sound bites and has a youthful
appearance, became the public face of Prince William's illegal immigration
crackdown.

"I don't want to be known for only one thing," Stewart said after the election.
"I still don't understand why [immigration] became such a huge issue. I'd like
to figure that out, so I can replicate it."

Before immigration emerged as a major issue in Northern Virginia, the populist
Stewart had developed a niche as a Republican in favor of containing suburban
sprawl. Now, he has some political capital after the GOP's lackluster statewide
showing in the fall elections. He wants to use it to help shift his party's
priorities.

"The state party is sclerotic, and atrophy has set in," Stewart said. Rather
than focusing on faith, family and freedom, he said, the GOP should address
quality-of-life issues such as protecting the environment, easing traffic and
preserving green space.

Controlled growth was Stewart's primary issue during the 2006 special election
for the chairman's seat. This fall, however, he hardly mentioned it in a rematch
against Democrat Sharon E. Pandak. His campaign centered almost entirely on
fighting illegal immigration. He won a four-year term with a comfortable 55
percent of the vote.

Stewart has a knack for picking issues that present obvious targets for attack,
whether developers or illegal immigrants. Some view that as a gift. Others see
him as opportunistic and poll-driven. Either way, his take-no-prisoners approach
appears to be paying off so far.

County board chairmen often have a low public profile, though Chairman Gerald E.
Connolly (D) of neighboring Fairfax County is a notable exception.

Former Prince William Chairman Kathleen K. Seefeldt, a Democrat, said the job
entails bringing stakeholders together to formulate policy in the best interest
of the community. Chairmen also should develop good working relations with
counterparts in the region, she said. Seefeldt criticized the process leading up
to approval of the county's anti-illegal immigration resolution as flawed and
divisive -- a rebuke of Stewart's leadership.

"It saddened me, because I believe in building community," Seefeldt said.

Stewart was raised in a Democratic home, with a father who was a longshoreman
and union man. His background suggests an interest in international affairs. He
earned a bachelor's degree from Georgetown University's School of Foreign
Service, a training ground for future diplomats. In his junior year, Stewart
studied in Poland and was struck by the effects of Communist rule. That helped
cement his conservatism. "I saw what a heavy-handed economy and government can
lead to, which is poverty and misery," Stewart said.

Stewart failed the foreign service exam a couple of times, then decided to teach
English in Japan. That's where he met his wife, Maria, who was born in Sweden.
They have been married 13 years. She is a permanent resident, working on her
citizenship. He is an international trade lawyer for the K Street firm Foley &
Lardner.

The couple moved to Prince William from Fairfax in 2001, when Maria was pregnant
with their second child, Luke. They had been living in an apartment in Baileys
Crossroads but wanted more space and a yard. Everything they saw in Fairfax was
out of their price range, so they settled on a 3,000-square-foot house in
Occoquan.

When Stewart moved to Prince William, his political rÃ©sumÃ© was thin. Within a
year he was vice chairman of the local Republican Party. Responding to questions
about whether the move from Fairfax to Prince William helped pave the way for
his political career, Stewart said: "I always wanted to get involved in
politics, but I didn't choose a place to live based on that."

Stewart's first try for elective office was a brief run against state Sen. Linda
T. "Toddy" Puller (D-Fairfax). But he jettisoned that race when a seat on the
Board of Supervisors became open. He was elected to represent the Occoquan
district in 2003, and moved up to the chairmanship after he won the 2006 special
election to replace Republican Sean T. Connaughton.

Stewart showed early signs he would be a combative chairman, according to
Supervisor John D. Jenkins (D-Neabsco). An effective chairman should be a
conduit between supervisors, Jenkins said. "It is not proper for him to try and
realign the priorities of the government," he said. "We don't want to see our
government shortchanged in the areas of transportation, education or public
safety."

Supervisors frequently point out that Stewart has no more power than the seven
supervisors on the board. Like him, they all have one vote.

"He does have the authority to establish the agenda, but the board has the
ability to amend the agenda," Supervisor Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles) said. "He
doesn't have a veto over board action, nor do I believe he has attempted to
exert, implicitly or explicitly, that kind of power."

Nohe added: "Corey doesn't shy away from putting himself in the middle of
controversy. He relishes being in the spotlight."

Nohe said he doesn't anticipate the dynamic between board members changing. Come
January, there will only be one new supervisor, Frank J. Principi
(D-Woodbridge), who is replacing Democrat Hilda Barg.

There is talk that Stewart might run for Congress, with immigration a ready-made
issue. But Stewart plays down the speculation.

"I still don't have a grand scheme," he said. "Life is far too unpredictable to
plan everything out."

Some Republicans have been privately critical of his approach.

"In one year, he's been able to alienate all perspective homebuyers and
businesses who might want to come to the county," said one Prince William
Republican activist who spoke on condition of anonymity because he must deal
with the chairman. "If you are a well-to-do family of color, you don't feel
welcome. If you are white middle class, you're sold on the image of a marauding
band of illegal immigrants at every street corner. And businesses don't want to
be caught in the firestorm."

Two of Stewart's top goals are to slow residential development and make
developers pay more for roads, schools and parks. He lost a significant
development-related vote in October, failing to persuade the board to approve a
proposal to raise impact fees charged to developers, known as proffers. Stewart
also wants to keep a lid on taxes and push for enforcement of the anti-illegal
immigration resolution. He said he plans to reach out to the Hispanic community.

"We need to cautiously push ahead, regardless of the opposition. We have a
special obligation to make sure it is enforced fairly, in a way that withstands
legal scrutiny," Stewart said. "Now that the hysteria has died down, we can
start having more rational dialogue. I don't like battling for the sake of
battling. I like to win."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

An Unrewarded Kindness

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 93 words


The illegal immigrant who gave up his long walk into the United States to help a
boy whose mother was killed in a van crash in the desert is back in Mexico  --
thanks to the U.S.  immigration service ["Says Man Who Rescued Boy: 'I Never
Could Have Left Him,' " news story, Nov. 29].

As a mother, I was struck by a certain irony. This  man, at great risk to his
own future, saved the life of a child on Thanksgiving day. Did it occur to
anyone to offer "thanksgiving" by granting this man legal immigrant status or
even U.S. citizenship?

CHRISTINE TANSEY

Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

When 'Sanctuary' Becomes a Dirty Word

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 782 words


Once again, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mitt Romney are on opposite sides of an
argument about their respective records as mayor of New York and governor of
Massachusetts. Romney fired the first shot on this one, depicting New York as a
"sanctuary city" that provided refuge to hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants. Giuliani responded by alleging that his rival ran a "sanctuary
mansion," a reference to the undocumented Guatemalans who looked after Romney's
lawn for several years while he was governor. Let's try to sort it all out.

THE FACTS

 Romney has made a lot out of "sanctuary cities." But a search of the
Nexis-Lexis database shows that the term was not in widespread use before 2001.
There was, however, a "sanctuary movement," dating back to the mid-1980s, that
was aimed at persuading the Reagan administration to permit half a million
undocumented refugees from war-torn Central American countries such as Guatemala
and El Salvador to remain in the United States. The refugees found haven in
churches and synagogues whose members put pressure on local city councils to
curtail their cooperation with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The first cities to embrace "sanctuary policies" were Berkeley, Calif., and St.
Paul, Minn., which passed resolutions in February 1988 opposing the federal
government's policies of deporting Central American refugees. Berkeley described
itself as a "City of Refuge." A number of other larger cities, including New
York, issued directives ordering city employees not to report illegal immigrants
to the INS unless they had committed a crime. But most of these places never
formally declared themselves to be "sanctuary cities."

The New York policy toward illegal immigrants was enshrined in Executive Order
124, signed by then-Mayor Edward I. Koch on Aug. 7, 1989. The order prohibited
city employees from providing "information respecting any alien to federal
immigration authorities" unless "required by law" or in cases when the illegal
immigrant was suspected of "engaging in criminal activity." Koch justified the
policy by arguing that many undocumented workers refused to make use of city
services because they were afraid that they would be reported to the federal
immigration authorities. The order stated that other residents would be
disadvantaged "if some who live in the City are uneducated, inadequately
protected from crime, or untreated from illness."

Executive Order 124 remained in force under Koch's successors, David N. Dinkins
and Giuliani. The legality of the Koch order went unchallenged until 1997 when
Congress adopted a new immigration law that made it illegal for cities to
prohibit employees from providing  information about illegal immigrants to the
immigration service. Giuliani sued the federal government over the new law,
arguing that it would "create chaos in New York City," by discouraging illegal
immigrants from reporting crimes and sending their children to school. A federal
judge and the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled against the mayor, and he was forced
to modify the policy.

So who is right: Giuliani or Romney? The Romney campaign was unable to provide a
citation or quotation to support the governor's assertion that New York "called
itself a sanctuary city" under Giuliani. But the Congressional Research Service,
which provides background information to members of Congress on a bipartisan
basis, has listed New York as one of several dozen cities following "sanctuary
policies." I examined the question of the Guatemalans on Romney's lawn in a
previous post. Romney is technically correct in saying that the Guatemalans did
not work directly "for" him: They worked for a company that he contracted to
look after his grounds. On the other hand, Giuliani is correct in saying that
the Guatemalans worked "at" the Romney mansion. It boils down to a question of
semantics: "at" vs. "for." Take your pick.

THE PINOCCHIO TEST

Both Giuliani and Romney are attempting to walk a very fine line, painting the
most negative possible picture of their rival's record while avoiding factual
error. In the particular exchange cited above, Giuliani has managed this feat a
little more adroitly than Romney. Romney makes two mistakes. (1) His campaign
has not provided support for his assertion that New York "called itself a
sanctuary city." (2) Illegal immigrants did work "at" his mansion. Two
Pinocchios for the governor.

ONE PINOCCHIO: Some shading of the facts; TWO PINOCCHIOS: Significant omissions
Or exaggerations; THREE PINOCCHIOS: Significant factual errors; FOUR PINOCCHIOS:
Real whoppers; THE GEPPETTO CHECK MARK: Statements and claims contain the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Most U.S.-Born Latinos Speak Fluent English

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 577 words


Almost all Hispanic adults born in the United States to immigrant parents speak
fluent English, even though most of their parents do not, according to a report
released yesterday.

The study by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center is among the broadest national
analyses to date of Hispanic immigrants' language skills and comes amid
widespread concern that the recent, massive influx of mostly Latin American
immigrants is not assimilating fast enough.

In a recent Washington Post poll of Virginia residents, for instance, 70 percent
of respondents said they believe recent immigrants are not doing enough to learn
English and fit in with American culture and values.

Hispanic immigrants appear to be feeling the heat, according to the Pew study.
Forty-six percent said lack of language skills was the biggest cause of
discrimination against Latinos, as opposed to skin color, immigration status or
income and education level.

To some extent, the study, which primarily analyzed data from six surveys since
2002 of more than 14,000 native and foreign-born Latino adults, confirmed the
impression that many Hispanic immigrants are not learning English. Among
first-generation Latino adults, only 23 percent say they can carry on a
conversation in English very well; about 65 percent said they speak English just
a little or not at all. Those results were consistent with more limited data
from Census Bureau surveys.

Nonetheless, 67 percent of Latino immigrants report that they use at least some
English at work; 28 percent said they speak only Spanish on the job. Most
significantly, 88 percent of their U.S.-born adult children say they speak
English very well, and the figure rises to 94 percent for later generations.

Use of English also increases across generations: Only 7 percent of foreign-born
Latinos report speaking more English than Spanish at home, compared with about
half of the second generation and three-quarters of the third.

As each generation gains fluency in English, it tends to lose fluency in
Spanish. Still, 52 percent of third-generation Latinos report speaking Spanish
at least fairly well.

The study's findings are in keeping with trends followed by the last great wave
of immigrants around the turn of the last century, co-author D'Vera Cohn said.

"We can't say for sure whether today's immigrants are learning English more
quickly than their counterparts of a century ago," said Cohn, a former
Washington Post reporter. "But we do know that the pattern of generational
change is similar."

So is the unease generated by the newcomers' lack of English skills, she added.
"A century ago, there was also a lot of concern expressed about whether the
great wave of immigrants would assimilate and become part of American society. .
. . This concern about assimilation has been a theme of every great wave of
immigration to this country."

But Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies,
which favors reduced immigration levels, said the study suggests that
descendants of the current wave of immigrants will assimilate at a slower pace
than those born of previous waves.

"The fact that 88 percent of American-born children speak English very well is
not something to brag about," he said. "What it really means is that 1 out of 8
American-born children of Hispanic immigrants does not speak English very well.
And that 1 out of 16 of their American-born grandchildren does not speak English
very well. That's pretty alarming."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Processing of Iraqi Refugees Improves, Officials Say;
State Department Expects as Many as 12,000 to Arrive in the United States Next
Year

BYLINE: Walter Pincus; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 766 words


Bush administration officials said yesterday that they are stepping up the
processing of Iraqis who wish to come to the United States, but officials
cautioned that the complexities of the two immigration programs involved will
limit the number of entrants in the next few months.

Of the almost 2.2 million Iraqi refugees in Syria and Jordan, 14,000 of those
who have registered with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR) have been referred to the United States for resettlement, State
Department official James Foley told reporters yesterday.

Of that number, 2,350 have arrived in the United States this year under two
programs. The larger program is for Iraqi refugees, and the other is a visa
program created by legislation, for interpreters and translators who worked for
the U.S. Embassy or coalition forces in Iraq or Afghanistan. The latter began
with a  limit of 50 per year; it has been raised to 500 a year.

Foley, named in September by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice as senior
coordinator for Iraqi refugees, said the United States was "not prepared"
initially for the refugee surge that began last year, but "now we are running
efficiently." He said the delay was partly caused by Syria's refusal until
recently to allow the questioning of Iraqi refugees in that country.

With the goal for 2008 set at 12,000 immigrants, Foley said, "Now several
hundred are coming in a month," and he expects that "to rise up to 1,000 a
month."

The process, which involves the  departments of State and Homeland Security
interviews and multiple security and other checks, can take as long as six
months per family. The State Department must first determine whether basic
information given to UNHCR is correct and confirm that the Iraqis meet criteria
of "past persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution" because of their
religion, political opinions or profession. Thereafter, State prepares each case
for Homeland Security interviewers, who have their own questions.

Five Homeland Security investigators, who have recently been allowed to enter
Syria, will be able to complete interviews by the end of December of only 218 of
344 cases of Iraqi refugee families, representing 712 people seeking U.S.
asylum, according to Lori Scialabba, special assistant for Iraqi refugees to
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff.

"We will have another [Homeland Security] group go back in January and complete
the remaining cases," Scialabba said, adding, "and that doesn't mean there won't
be more referrals by that time."

After the Homeland Security reviews are finished, the State Department may have
questions about health and other issues before a family is cleared to go.
Additional delays are caused in finding groups that can help settle the families
in the United States.

So far, the process has led to the denial of 1,500 cases. "Not all of those
applying are legitimate refugees," said an official involved in the process who
spoke on the condition of anonymity. "We are mindful and take seriously that we
have to welcome Iraqis, but we also take seriously our security procedures, and
we don't want to admit someone who has bad intentions or potential ties to
terrorism."

Foley said that 12,000 Iraqis coming to the United States "is not a cap but a
goal." He pointed out that many of the refugees have not registered with UNHCR
to start the process. In Jordan, for example, he said that of about 500,000
refugees, only about 50,000 had registered, and, of those, only 7,000 were
referred to the United States.

The special visa program has other complications. It is open to translators or
interpreters who worked for U.S. armed forces or the embassy for at least 12
months, have a favorable written recommendation from the ambassador or flag
officer of the unit served, and a clean background check.

Not included in the faster special visa program are thousands of Iraqis
employed by private contractors working for U.S. agency and coalition forces.
Their situation is complicated, because some contractors no longer are in Iraq,
making it difficult to confirm employment.

State and Homeland Security are trying to work out problems associated with
these Iraqis, according to the Associated Press, which first reported on the
issue.

While those under the refugee program have their travel to the United States
paid for by the U.S. government, visa beneficiaries must pay their own way.
Recipients get a green card upon arrival, while those in the refugee category
have to wait a year before they can apply. Both groups must wait five years
before they can apply for citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2007 Sunday
                                 Met 1 Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
Nov. 25-Dec. 1

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 586 words

GOP Cancels Plans to Require Pledge Panel Reverses Course After Public Outcry

Virginia Republican leaders have decided to scrap plans to require voters to
sign a loyalty pledge before casting their ballots in the Feb. 12 presidential
primary.

The 86-member Virginia Republican State Central Committee, meeting in Crystal
City on Friday, came to its decision after a public outcry over the pledge and
mounting concern among GOP leaders that it could drive independents and
moderates away from Republican candidates.

The reversal came less than a week after the State Board of Elections had
approved a party request to require voters to sign a paper saying: "I, the
undersigned, pledge that I intend to support the nominee of the Republican Party
for President." The pledge included notification that anyone who refused to sign
it "will not be permitted to vote," a requirement that would have been difficult
to enforce.

Illegal Immigrants' Services in Fairfax County Says Tallying Costs All But
Impossible

The costs of delivering government services to illegal immigrants in Fairfax
County is all but impossible to determine, County Executive Anthony H. Griffin
said in a report.

That's because no one knows how many undocumented immigrants live in the county
and because many of the services, such as libraries, parks, public transit and
roads, are provided to all residents, not just a subset.

The only direct cost the county said it was able to determine was in the
sheriff's office, which will spend about $3.8 million this fiscal year housing
undocumented immigrants at the county jail.

U-Va. Students Charged in Abduction Victim Was Grabbed at Tysons, Held at Motel


Two University of Virginia students snatched a man off a street corner in the
Tysons Corner area, tied him up in a Falls Church motel bathroom and demanded a
$500,000 ransom, police said.

Police charged Guanyu Lu, 19, and Baichuan Shu, 19, both of Charlottesville,
with abduction with intent to extort money. Both were arraigned in Fairfax
County General District Court and ordered held without bond.

The suspects were second-year engineering students at U-Va., university
spokesman Jeff Hanna said. Both are Chinese nationals, as is the victim, a
20-year-old man who was living with a family in McLean, police said.

Loudoun Schools Seek Bigger Budget Chief Sees 16% Jump in Operations Expenses

As Loudoun County schools continue to lead Northern Virginia in enrollment
growth, the system's chief proposed raising spending on annual operations to
$800 million.

Superintendent Edgar B. Hatrick III called the 16 percent budget increase a
"reasonable estimate" of what it would take to accommodate a projected 57,000
students in the 2008-09 school year and provide them a world-class education.
The proposal comes as officials consider a six-year capital budget of $1.3
billion, which would fund 20 new schools, mostly through voter-approved bonds.

The county's school population is expected to reach 77,000 by 2013.

Woman Charged in Threats to Family Arlington Mother Suspected of Sending Letters


An Arlington County mother has been charged with sending anonymous letters to
her ex-husband's wife that threatened to torture and kill her and the couple's
two toddlers, according to police and court records.

Jennie L. Altieri, 36, was being held without bond at the county jail on two
felony counts of making threats of death or bodily injury. Her preliminary
hearing is set for Jan. 15. If convicted, she could face up to five years on
each of the two charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By John Mcdonnell -- The Washington Post; Praying for No. 21
James Duncan of Ashburn, right, joined others at a vigil Monday at Redskins Park
for Sean Taylor, who was shot that day and died Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 8, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Foreigners Invest Greenbacks in Return for Green Cards

BYLINE: Cecilia Kang; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1096 words


At a recent conference in Rockville, where Chinese business owners mingled with
local entrepreneurs, Timothy Milbrath stood out.

Wearing rainbow Mardi Gras beads, the gregarious retired Air Force colonel was
herding conference-goers to his trade-fair booth to deliver an unusual pitch:
invest in his fund to rebuild New Orleans and get a green card in return.

"So many of our immigration policies don't make sense, but this does," said
Milbrath, co-founder of NobleOutReach.

Through a little-known visa program that connects international fortunes to
depressed economies around the country, Gaithersburg-based NobleOutReach has set
out to rebuild parts of New Orleans through investments from wealthy foreigners
seeking a gateway for immigration.

The visa program, known as the EB-5 immigrant investor pilot program, is a
relatively small one. It reserves 3,000 visas a year for foreign investors who
put at least $500,000 into one of 17 projects around the country, all designed
to stimulate troubled local economies. One project involves a dairy-farming
business in South Dakota, another an ethanol production plant in Texas. There's
a project focusing on tourism, technology and trade in Pittsburgh and another
that centers on professional business service companies in Milwaukee.

In exchange for their investments, the foreigners receive whatever dividends
result from the projects and green cards for their immediate family.

In NobleOutReach's program, which began last spring, money raised by immigrant
investors will be used to develop office buildings, hotels, restaurants and
medical clinics in New Orleans. So far, the fund has attracted about 50
investors from South Korea, China, Britain and the Middle East, according to the
company. Nothing has been built, but with a 30-year contract with the city of
New Orleans, NobleOutReach hopes to invest about $100 million in projects that
it says could create thousands of jobs.

During the recent  get-together in Montgomery County, local business leader Duc
Duong was among many who stopped by NobleOutReach's booth to hear about details
of the visa program. He was joined by Ying Chen, a real estate agent with Long &
Foster, who talked to Milbrath about introducing her investor contacts from
China to the fund. Once they were here, she figured, she would try to sell them
houses.

"There are many, many people in China with wealth. The problem is that they
don't have the quality of life that they want in China, particularly with
education for their children," said Duong, who serves as the local chairman of
an Asian American technology business group known as Monte Jade.

The EB-5 pilot visa program grew from a program that critics called the
"million-dollar visa," because it granted permanent residency in return for $1
million in direct business investments. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services restructured the program in 2002 after problems arose with fraud and
abuse by investors. Under a pilot effort, investors no longer have to serve as
day-to-day managers of the projects. The revamped program operates more like a
mutual fund and leaves managing the work to others. The pilot offers immigrants
the same green-card benefits for half the investment, and the money is directed
into regional centers, such as New Orleans. As under the old program, each
investment must create 10 local jobs.

"After the problems of the program in the late 1990s, the program grew into
disfavor by immigration lawyers and investors. But now with new revisions and
regional centers, it makes much more sense and is stirring more attention," said
Raj Singh, an immigration attorney in Rockville who is helping a client from
Pakistan with large real estate holdings in Dubai apply for the pilot program.

In fiscal year 2007, which ended in September, 779 people applied for the visa
program, double the 389 who applied in 2006. The greatest number of investors
have come from South Korea, China, and Britain.

Though the number of applicants each year is still far below the quota, Berez
said the amount invested through EB-5 visas was $500 million last year and is
projected to rise to $800 million in 2007 and $1 billion in 2008.

"This is only going to get bigger," said Morrie Berez, chief of the EB-5 program
at the USCIS.

One South Korean family, living temporarily in Florida on a separate investor
visa program while running an orchid farm, has applied to switch visa programs
and invest in NobleOutReach's fund for the chance of gaining permanent
residency, according to the firm.

"With the weak dollar, it makes more and more sense to look at this kind of
investment," said William B. Hungerford Jr., president of NobleOutReach.

Some criticize the program for being an immigration loophole for the world's
privileged. But the head of the immigration program said the process is more
difficult than it seems.

Berez said applicants undergo exhaustive background checks and are required to
submit piles of legal paperwork. Investors initially receive two-year
residencies while immigration authorities monitor their investments and
participation in the program. After a foreign investor passes all checks by the
USCIS and the regional center verifies that the investment produced 10 jobs, the
applicant is granted permanent residency.

The program appealed to foreign nationals like Suzette Williams, a citizen of
Jamaica who has lived in New Jersey for the past seven years. With her husband,
she's applied to invest in NobleOutReach's fund, even though she's never been to
New Orleans and isn't required to do so after making her investment. Williams
said her temporary work permit, an H-1B visa, is slated to expire next year. She
put $500,000 she's raised through property investments and savings into the visa
program so that she and her husband can continue to raise their two young
children in the United States.

"There are more opportunities here for us and our children," Williams said.
"Besides, they were born here; we are rooted."

Martin Scherer and Pamela Dance, Britons who live in Sarasota, Fla., are in the
process of investing in NobleOutReach's fund. For seven years, the couple, who
own properties in Britain and Florida, had to leave the United States every
three months to renew their temporary visitor visas. They hope their investment
will allow them to travel between Britain and the United States more freely. But
beyond the promise of a green card, they also see an upside in their investment.

"We have the chance to invest in New Orleans on the ground floor" Scherer said.
"It could be a chance of a lifetime."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Foreign Investors Get Visa Reward;
Money Stimulates Projects in U.S.

BYLINE: Cecilia Kang; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1096 words


At a recent conference in Rockville, where Chinese business owners mingled with
local entrepreneurs, Timothy Milbrath stood out.

Wearing rainbow Mardi Gras beads, the gregarious retired Air Force colonel was
herding conference-goers to his trade-fair booth to deliver an unusual pitch:
invest in his fund to rebuild New Orleans and get a green card in return.

"So many of our immigration policies don't make sense, but this does," said
Milbrath, co-founder of NobleOutReach.

Through a little-known visa program that connects international fortunes to
depressed economies around the country, Gaithersburg-based NobleOutReach has set
out to rebuild parts of New Orleans through investments from wealthy foreigners
seeking a gateway for immigration.

The visa program, known as the EB-5 immigrant investor pilot program, is a
relatively small one. It reserves 3,000 visas a year for foreign investors who
put at least $500,000 into one of 17 projects around the country, all designed
to stimulate troubled local economies. One project involves a dairy-farming
business in South Dakota, another an ethanol production plant in Texas. There's
a project focusing on tourism, technology and trade in Pittsburgh and another
that centers on professional business service companies in Milwaukee.

In exchange for their investments, the foreigners receive whatever dividends
result from the projects and green cards for their immediate family.

In NobleOutReach's program, which began last spring, money raised by immigrant
investors will be used to develop office buildings, hotels, restaurants and
medical clinics in New Orleans. So far, the fund has attracted about 50
investors from South Korea, China, Britain and the Middle East, according to the
company. Nothing has been built, but with a 30-year contract with the city of
New Orleans, NobleOutReach hopes to invest about $100 million in projects that
it says could create thousands of jobs.

During the recent get-together in Montgomery County, local business leader Duc
Duong was among many who stopped by NobleOutReach's booth to hear about details
of the visa program. He was joined by Ying Chen, a real estate agent with Long &
Foster, who talked to Milbrath about introducing her investor contacts from
China to the fund. Once they were here, she figured, she would try to sell them
houses.

"There are many, many people in China with wealth. The problem is that they
don't have the quality of life that they want in China, particularly with
education for their children," said Duong, who serves as the local chairman of
an Asian American technology business group known as Monte Jade.

The EB-5 pilot visa program grew from a program that critics called the
"million-dollar visa," because it granted permanent residency in return for $1
million in direct business investments. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services restructured the program in 2002 after problems arose with fraud and
abuse by investors. Under a pilot effort, investors no longer have to serve as
day-to-day managers of the projects. The revamped program operates more like a
mutual fund and leaves managing the work to others. The pilot offers immigrants
the same green-card benefits for half the investment, and the money is directed
into regional centers, such as New Orleans. As under the old program, each
investment must create 10 local jobs.

"After the problems of the program in the late 1990s, the program grew into
disfavor by immigration lawyers and investors. But now with new revisions and
regional centers, it makes much more sense and is stirring more attention," said
Raj Singh, an immigration attorney in Rockville who is helping a client from
Pakistan with large real estate holdings in Dubai apply for the pilot program.

In fiscal year 2007, which ended in September, 779 people applied for the visa
program, double the 389 who applied in 2006. The greatest number of investors
have come from South Korea, China, and Britain.

Though the number of applicants each year is still far below the quota, Berez
said the amount invested through EB-5 visas was $500 million last year and is
projected to rise to $800 million in 2007 and $1 billion in 2008.

"This is only going to get bigger," said Morrie Berez, chief of the EB-5 program
at the USCIS.

One South Korean family, living temporarily in Florida on a separate investor
visa program while running an orchid farm, has applied to switch visa programs
and invest in NobleOutReach's fund for the chance of gaining permanent
residency, according to the firm.

"With the weak dollar, it makes more and more sense to look at this kind of
investment," said William B. Hungerford Jr., president of NobleOutReach.

Some criticize the program for being an immigration loophole for the world's
privileged. But the head of the immigration program said the process is more
difficult than it seems.

Berez said applicants undergo exhaustive background checks and are required to
submit piles of legal paperwork. Investors initially receive two-year
residencies while immigration authorities monitor their investments and
participation in the program. After a foreign investor passes all checks by the
USCIS and the regional center verifies that the investment produced 10 jobs, the
applicant is granted permanent residency.

The program appealed to foreign nationals like Suzette Williams, a citizen of
Jamaica who has lived in New Jersey for the past seven years. With her husband,
she's applied to invest in NobleOutReach's fund, even though she's never been to
New Orleans and isn't required to do so after making her investment. Williams
said her temporary work permit, an H-1B visa, is slated to expire next year. She
put $500,000 she's raised through property investments and savings into the visa
program so that she and her husband can continue to raise their two young
children in the United States.

"There are more opportunities here for us and our children," Williams said.
"Besides, they were born here; we are rooted."

Martin Scherer and Pamela Dance, Britons who live in Sarasota, Fla., are in the
process of investing in NobleOutReach's fund. For seven years, the couple, who
own properties in Britain and Florida, had to leave the United States every
three months to renew their temporary visitor visas. They hope their investment
will allow them to travel between Britain and the United States more freely. But
beyond the promise of a green card, they also see an upside in their investment.

"We have the chance to invest in New Orleans on the ground floor" Scherer said.
"It could be a chance of a lifetime."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

The Week That Was

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ14

LENGTH: 328 words


News that appeared Dec. 2-8 in The Washington Post that is of interest to
readers in Loudoun and Fauquier counties.

 Tuesday 4

Ex-Girlfriend Allegedly Abducted

A Purcellville man faces charges in the alleged abduction of his former
girlfriend, the Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said.

No Higher Tax on Office Buildings

Loudoun and Prince William counties have decided not to impose higher taxes on
commercial office buildings and shopping centers, reducing the amount of money
made available to them by the General Assembly to pay for road and transit
projects.

Schools Check for Sex Offenders

The Prince William County public school system rolled out a computerized
security system to check for sex offenders at the same time that other school
systems in the Washington region, including Loudoun County, are taking similar
security precautions.

Wednesday 5

Board Approves Development

The Loudoun County Board of Supervisors voted to allow a developer to build a
large, pedestrian-friendly community of houses, shops and offices southwest of
Dulles International Airport.

Leaders Focus on Immigration

County and city leaders from several Virginia jurisdictions have formed a group
to push for tougher measures against illegal immigrants, the latest sign that
local governments in the state will look for ways to act while immigration
reform remains stalled in Congress.

Power Line Ruling Reconsidered

The Energy Department announced that it will reconsider its decision to
designate a portion of the mid-Atlantic region -- including the District, most
of Maryland and Northern Virginia -- as a priority area for the placement of
power lines.

Thursday 6

FBI Targets Mortgage Fraud

The FBI launched a mortgage fraud task force in its Washington field office,
joining a widening net of state and local investigators, including Loudoun law
enforcement officials, digging into the market crisis.

For information about these and other articles, visit
http://www.washingtonpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Latino Who Will Chair Board Is Described as a 'Unique and Needed Voice'

BYLINE: Kirstin Downey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 528 words


J. Walter Tejada, an immigrant who moved to the United States from El Salvador
when he was 13, has been named chairman of the Arlington County Board, which
will make him the highest ranking Latino elected official in Northern Virginia.

Tejada (D), 50, first elected to the board in 2003, was chosen by his four
fellow board members to be chairman, which will allow him to set the board's
agenda, prioritize its spending goals and act as the county's primary spokesman.

"I'm excited and humbled that my colleagues have placed that trust in me,"
Tejada said yesterday.

"I'm continuing to live the American dream."

Tejada came to prominence in 1999 during the political fight over the
destruction of the Arna Valley apartment complex -- a demolition that displaced
3,000 people, many of them immigrants.

He said he feels especially pleased with his new role because Virginia is "a
state that has not been that friendly to immigrants."

In the recent elections, for example, some politicians in Prince William County
called for a crackdown on illegal immigrants rather than recognizing the
contribution they make to the local economy, Tejada said.

"We need to be very careful we don't set policies based on whims," he said,
adding that he will take on the challenge of battling policies that are not
"inclusive and caring."

In Arlington, county officials in September rebuked politicians elsewhere for
taking measures they called "punitive" toward immigrants and unanimously backed
a resolution calling on elected officials to "promote the integration of
immigrants."

Latino activists and elected officials in the Washington region were pleased --
and surprised -- at the news of Tejada's new role on the board.

"It's fantastic," said Maryland Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery.)

"He is definitely a unique and needed voice in Virginia. He's been such a leader
in representing the needs of Latinos."

Gutierrez said Tejada has played a key role regionally by raising issues of
concern to Latinos at the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments. She
said he has spearheaded discussions of immigration, day laborers and gangs.

"He has brought the governments together," she said. "He's been spectacular at
that."

Tejada's reach has been regional and national, not just local, said William
Ramos, director of the Washington chapter of the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials.

"He's brought forth a reasoned approach to immigration reform," Ramos said.

Arlington Board member Barbara A. Favola (D), who chaired the board in 2000 and
2004, said that Tejada will bring "a very special perspective" to the
chairmanship because of his immigrant experience.

"He has a personal commitment to people who want to help themselves but who may
need a helping hand," said Favola, who will serve as the board's vice chair.
"That's been his passion."

Tejada, a former aide to U.S. Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.), will unveil his
goals for next year at a meeting Jan. 1. A longtime advocate of affordable
housing, he is expected to make that issue a priority for Arlington in 2008.

Tejada is married to a teacher, Robin Tejada, and lives in the Dominion Hills
area of Arlington.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pamela Constable -- The Washington Post; J. Walter Tejada,
who emigrated from El Salvador when he was 13, said he will try to ensure that
Arlington County policies are "inclusive and caring."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Ready to Meet A Need, Once Those in Need Ask for Help;
Bilingual Child-Care Center Starts Slowly

BYLINE: Daniel de Vise; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ01

LENGTH: 922 words


In a warmly lit classroom at CentroNÃ­a along University Boulevard in Langley
Park, 12 preschool children holding stubby crayons filled sheets of construction
paper with circles and squares.

A room next door was filled with books and blocks and musical instruments, but
there were no children. The classroom across the hall was empty, too, and so
were most of the other rooms up and down the hallway of the spacious Montgomery
County facility.

CentroNÃ­a, a well-regarded nonprofit organization with 20 years' experience in
the District, opened its first bilingual educational center  in Maryland last
June in the cradle of the suburban immigrant community. Two-thirds of Langley
Park residents are foreign-born, most of them recent immigrants from Latin
America. Montgomery County's Hispanic population has increased by 25 percent
since 2000, according to census figures.

The center has nine classrooms and the capacity to serve about 150 children from
infancy to adolescence in daytime early childhood education and after-school
programs. But only 26 children are enrolled.

In her D.C. operation, CentroNÃ­a founder Beatriz "BB" Otero has mostly had to
deal with waiting lists. Why would a subsidized, bilingual child-care program in
an immaculate facility fail to take off in a community bustling with recent
immigrants and financial need?

"It does take a bit of time," Otero said.

Part of the problem is getting the word out, first with fliers distributed
around the community and, more recently, in a series of advertisements  on
Spanish-language radio. CentroNÃ­a is not yet a household name in Montgomery, as
it is on its home turf of Columbia Heights. Its new location struggles for
visibility in a strip mall near the busy intersection of University Boulevard
and New Hampshire Avenue.

A larger issue has arisen for the CentroNÃ­a staff, however: interacting with a
new and unfamiliar local government.

In the District, where CentroNÃ­a is firmly entrenched, the difficult task of
intake -- helping new families acquire the financial aid they will need to
offset the costs of the center's services -- is handled on site, by CentroNÃ­a
employees.

In Montgomery County, the process has been tougher. Families seeking assistance
to pay the $250 weekly tuition for day care at the Langley Park center have to
travel to a government office in Rockville. There, they must produce a list of
records, including birth certificates and Social Security cards for each family
member, proof of residency, four weeks of pay stubs and a tax return.

Each document may pose a problem, particularly for recent immigrants, who may
rent a room in someone else's house and get paid in cash.

"It's an overwhelming process," said Rosalba Bonilla-Acosta, director of
operations at CentroNÃ­a.

Kate Garvey, chief of children, youth and family services for the county
Department of Health and Human Services, said in an e-mail that her agency
"worked closely with CentroNÃ­a to assist them in their transition to the
Maryland system." She noted that customers are not required to travel to
Rockville to apply for aid, and that the county is flexible in requesting
documents such as birth certificates and Social Security cards. She said proof
of residency can be satisfied "as simply as having someone write a verification
note," such as a landlord.

The county this year gave the program a $250,000 grant. CentroNÃ­a officials say
the county has supported its expansion.

CentroNÃ­a's services rival those of rigorous private child-care facilities.
Children are screened at  enrollment for mental, social and emotional
development. They learn their letters and shapes, practice motor skills, build
with blocks, cut, paste and color, and become conversant in Spanish and English.
Classrooms are filled with books, puzzles, play mats and playhouse kitchens.

"AviÃ³n. Airplane," a teacher said, surveying a picture drawn by a 4-year-old
girl. "Â¿QuÃ© color es el aviÃ³n? What color is it?"

"Blue," the girl replied.

In a larger multipurpose room, a group of 2- and 3-year-old children circled the
tiled floor on tricycles and kicked balls. And in the kitchen, the cook prepared
a meal of grilled cheese sandwiches and milk. Then it was naptime.

CentroNÃ­a opened in 1986 as a child-care program for 15 children at Calvary
United Methodist Church in the District. The organization, renamed in 2004,
eventually outgrew the church and now serves close to 1,000 in its early
childhood program, Otero said. CentroNÃ­a also manages the D.C. Bilingual Public
Charter School, trains teachers and operates after-school programs around the
District.

Expansion to Montgomery reflects a shift in the agency's core population of
Hispanic immigrants, who are gradually relocating from the gentrifying Columbia
Heights into swaths of Montgomery and Prince George's counties. The population
of D.C. residents born in Latin America has declined by about 5 percent since
2000.

The Langley Park facility sits across from the Prince George's border, and there
are plans to serve children from that county. Now, however, the new center
serves only Montgomery residents because much of its funding comes from
Montgomery and "because we want to expand slowly," Bonilla-Acosta said.

Quite a few Prince George's parents have visited the center, seeking services.
They are being put on a waiting list and referred to existing early childhood
centers in their county, she said.

"The place of arrival was D.C. People got settled, and then they moved," Otero
said. "Now people are arriving into the suburbs."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; CentroNÃ­a
opened in June in Langley Park, with the capacity to serve about 150 children.
So far, 26 are enrolled.
IMAGE; Nelly Valladares, 3, has her lunch. Next in the all-day program is
naptime. Children also learn letters and shapes in English and Spanish, build
with blocks and practice motor skills.
IMAGE; Photos By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Alma Penafiel, 2,
claps to see the lunch cart arrive after reading with Antonio Acosta, also 2,
and Ann Marie Valladares. (Getting blankets ready is Alejandra Pawluk.) At left,
a classroom. Below is operations director Rosalba Bonilla-Acosta.
IMAGE; Photos By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Alma Penafiel, 2,
claps to see the lunch cart arrive after reading with Antonio Acosta, also 2,
and Ann Marie Valladares. (Getting blankets ready is Alejandra Pawluk.) At left,
a classroom. Below is operations director Rosalba Bonilla-Acosta.
IMAGE; Photos By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Alma Penafiel, 2,
claps to see the lunch cart arrive after reading with Antonio Acosta, also 2,
and Ann Marie Valladares. (Getting blankets ready is Alejandra Pawluk.) At left,
a classroom. Below is operations director Rosalba Bonilla-Acosta.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 14, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Homespun Meets Hard-Line

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES


There is a frigid grandeur to the Midwest in winter -- the dark stubble in
snow-layered cornfields, chunks of ice bobbing down the Missouri River, stranded
cars decorating the roadside.

I came to Iowa to see a series of rallies by the surging Mike Huckabee -- all of
which were canceled by a nine-state ice storm. The candidate chose to occupy his
snow day with a moral blunder of the first order -- accepting the endorsement of
Jim Gilchrist, the founder of an anti-immigrant group called the Minuteman
Project.

I am predisposed to like Mike Huckabee for his commitment to economic mobility,
his firm but nonjudgmental social conservatism and his Christian concern for the
poor. But Huckabee's embrace of Gilchrist and his recent shifts on immigration
policy undermine the core of his appeal: authenticity. From the G-rated,
family-values candidate, this is the kind of politics that should be covered
with brown paper, kept under the counter and hidden from children.

Gilchrist is not just another voice on immigration. He is one of the most
divisive figures in the most divisive debate in American politics. In 2006,
responding to pro-immigration demonstrations, he told the Orange County
Register, "I'm not going to promote insurrection, but if it happens, it will be
on the conscience of the members of Congress who are doing this. I will not
promote violence in resolving this, but I will not stop others who might pursue
that." Note the oily formulation -- not promoting, but also not criticizing, the
resort to political violence. "I'm willing to see my country go into battle if
necessary," he added, "for our sovereignty and to be governed by rule of law."

Gilchrist has called for the impeachment of President Bush over the issue of
border enforcement. He has made noises about running for president as a
third-party candidate because of his disdain for Republicans.

This is an odd choice of company for a candidate who promotes a conservatism
without anger.

At the endorsement in Council Bluffs, Gilchrist referred to the "illegal alien
invasion" -- which sounds less like it originates from Mexico than from Mars.
Contrast this with Huckabee speaking in Little Rock at a meeting of Hispanic
civil rights leaders two years ago: "I would hope that no matter who we are, or
where we are from, that America should always be a place that opens its spirit
to people who come because they want the best for their families." And Huckabee
has accompanied his choice of new friends with an immigration plan that would
require 12 million illegal immigrants to return home before applying for
permanent status -- a completely unrealistic approach borrowed from
anti-immigration activists.

Huckabee's campaign regards this evolution as immunization against Mitt Romney's
immigration attack ads -- and it may work in the short run. But a political
shift this transparent raises questions about the quality and seriousness of
Huckabee's campaign. Did someone vet Gilchrist's past statements? Did anyone
consider the possibility that this toxic political symbolism might sabotage
future appeals to Hispanic voters?

Candidates, of course, must win caucuses and primaries before they have the
chance to be principled in general elections. Compromise is inevitable. But
sometimes political maneuvers are so sudden and reckless they raise deeper
questions. Huckabee's main appeal has been his homespun decency. But his
behavior on immigration has been a kind of politics-as-usual so blatant it is
actually unusual. Huckabee is managing to compromise his most distinctive virtue
at the very moment the attention of the public is focused on his candidacy. In
politics, a candidate can bend over backward so far that his spine snaps.

These errors don't have to be fatal for Huckabee, who has a compelling message
and personality. His populist disdain for the elites of Wall Street and the
Republican establishment has earned him increasing opposition, but it might also
allow him to position Republicans as the party of change in an election that
will reward a message of change.

But it is worth recalling a quote from Thomas More in "A Man for All Seasons."
More's protege, Richard Rich, has compromised his convictions to be appointed
attorney general for Wales. "For Wales?" asks More. "Why, Richard, it profits a
man nothing to give his soul for the whole world. . . . But for Wales?"

The question now comes to Mike Huckabee, who knows the biblical reference: "For
Iowa?"

michaelgerson@cfr.org

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Yana Paskova -- Getty Images; Mike Huckabee campaigning in
Des Moines.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 15, 2007 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Immigration Agents Fell Short of Probe Goal

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 473 words


U.S. immigration agents investigated only 139 suspected fraud cases referred by
the main anti-fraud unit of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services last year,
or less than 1 percent of 1 percent of about 6 million applications for
citizenship, green cards and other benefits, federal investigators reported
yesterday.

The Department of Homeland Security's inspector general, Richard L. Skinner,
blamed a DHS policy set in February 2006 requiring that 100 percent of suspect
applications be investigated, saying it  overwhelmed claims officers and
immigration investigators with work, rendering the policy all but useless.

"The current USCIS strategy for addressing immigration benefit fraud yields
little measurable return," Skinner's office reported. Instead, agents diverted
resources to higher priority national security and criminal background checks.
DHS officials want to change the blanket policy but have not  decided how,
Skinner said.

Agency spokesman Christopher Bentley said that "USCIS remains committed" to
improving anti-fraud efforts along with its sister investigative agency, U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. "Neither ICE nor USCIS can help the fact
the volume of potential fraud cases significantly exceeds the capability of both
agencies," USCIS Director Emilio T. Gonzalez wrote Skinner in a formal response.

The inspector general's report, dated Oct. 29 and released yesterday,
underscores  problems dating to the March 2003 launch of DHS, which reorganized
U.S. immigration agencies and expanded their duties.  The report also highlights
one of myriad hurdles to tougher U.S. immigration enforcement, a subject of
heated national debate since Congress failed to pass a comprehensive overhaul of
immigration laws this summer.

USCIS's 315-member Fraud Detection and National Security office was created in
May 2004 with the goal of tracking all applications with any sign of fraud. But
in practice, not all 3,500 USCIS claim adjudicators turn in such forms, because
doing so counts against their productivity.

FDNS referred less than 1 percent of applications to ICE for investigation in
fiscal 2006, about 2,425 cases. ICE investigated less than 1 percent of them, or
139 cases, the inspector general reported. By comparison, in 2004 ICE conducted
53,376 investigations -- of which 5,351 were benefit fraud-related -- leading to
533 convictions.

Immigration officials say without massive new resources, they have to set
priorities. ICE mostly targets conspiracies, fraud rings, security and safety
risks, the report said. USCIS wants to target cases involving lawyers,
third-party preparers and individuals from countries designated as posing
terrorism risks.

The report noted other complaints with FDNS systems, which early this year had a
backlog of more than 15,000 fraud referrals and security-related checks.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The Right Road to America?

BYLINE: Amy Chua

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1819 words


If you don't speak Spanish, Miami really can feel like a foreign country. In any
restaurant, the conversation at the next table is more likely to be Spanish than
English. And Miami's population is only 65 percent Hispanic. El Paso is 76
percent Latino. Flushing, N.Y., is 60 percent immigrant, mainly Chinese.

Chinatowns and Little Italys have long been part of America's urban landscape,
but would it be all right to have entire U.S. cities where most people spoke and
did business in Chinese, Spanish or even Arabic? Are too many Third World,
non-English-speaking immigrants destroying our national identity?

For some Americans, even asking such questions is racist. At the other end of
the spectrum, the conservative talk show host Bill O'Reilly fulminates against
floods of immigrants who threaten to change America's "complexion" and replace
what he calls the "white Christian male power structure."

But for the large majority in between, Democrats and Republicans alike, these
questions are painful, with no easy answers. At some level, most of us cherish
our legacy as a nation of immigrants. But are all immigrants really equally
likely to make good Americans? Are we, as the Harvard political scientist Samuel
Huntington warns, in danger of losing our core values and devolving "into a
loose confederation of ethnic, racial, cultural, and political groups, with
little or nothing in common apart from their location in the territory of what
had been the United States of America"?

My parents arrived in the United States in 1961, so poor that they couldn't
afford heat their first winter. I grew up speaking only Chinese at home (for
every English word accidentally uttered, my sister and I got one whack of the
chopsticks). Today, my father is a professor at Berkeley, and I'm a professor at
Yale Law School. As the daughter of immigrants, a grateful beneficiary of
America's tolerance and opportunity, I could not be more pro-immigrant.

Nevertheless, I think Huntington has a point.

Around the world today, nations face violence and instability as a result of
their increasing pluralism and diversity. Across Europe, immigration has
resulted in unassimilated, largely Muslim enclaves that are hotbeds of unrest
and even terrorism. The riots in France last month were just the latest
manifestation. With Muslims poised to become a majority in Amsterdam and
elsewhere within a decade, major West European cities could undergo a profound
transformation. Not surprisingly, virulent anti-immigration parties are on the
rise.

Not long ago, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union disintegrated when
their national identities proved too weak to bind together diverse peoples. Iraq
is the latest example of how crucial national identity is. So far, it has found
no overarching identity strong enough to unite its Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis.

The United States is in no danger of imminent disintegration. But this is
because it has been so successful, at least since the Civil War, in forging a
national identity strong enough to hold together its widely divergent
communities. We should not take this unifying identity for granted.

The greatest empire in history, ancient Rome, collapsed when its cultural and
political glue dissolved, and peoples who had long thought of themselves as
Romans turned against the empire. In part, this fragmentation occurred because
of a massive influx of immigrants from a very different culture. The
"barbarians" who sacked Rome were Germanic immigrants who never fully
assimilated.

Does this mean that it's time for the United States to shut its borders and
reassert its "white, Christian" identity and what Huntington calls its
Anglo-Saxon, Protestant "core values"?

No. The anti-immigration camp makes at least two critical mistakes.

First, it neglects the indispensable role that immigrants have played in
building American wealth and power. In the 19th century, the United States would
never have become an industrial and agricultural powerhouse without the millions
of poor Irish, Polish, Italian and other newcomers who mined coal, laid rail and
milled steel. European immigrants led to the United States' winning the race for
the atomic bomb. Today, American leadership in the Digital Revolution -- so
central to our military and economic preeminence -- owes an enormous debt to
immigrant contributions. Andrew Grove (cofounder of Intel), Vinod Khosla (Sun
Microsystems) and Sergey Brin (Google) are immigrants. Between 1995 and 2005, 52
percent of Silicon Valley start-ups had one key immigrant founder. And Vikram S.
Pundit's appointment to the helm of CitiGroup last Tuesday means that 14 chief
executives of Fortune 100 companies are foreign-born.

The United States is in a fierce global competition to attract the world's best
high-tech scientists and engineers -- most of whom are not white Christians.
Just this past summer, Microsoft opened a large new software development center
in Canada, in part because of the difficulty of obtaining U.S. visas for foreign
engineers.

Second, anti-immigration talking heads forget that their own scapegoating
vitriol will, if anything, drive immigrants farther from the U.S. mainstream.
One reason we don't have Europe's enclaves is our unique success in forging an
ethnically and religiously neutral national identity, uniting individuals of all
backgrounds. This is America's glue, and people like Huntington and O'Reilly
unwittingly imperil it.

Nevertheless, immigration naysayers also have a point.

America's glue can be subverted by too much tolerance. Immigration advocates are
too often guilty of an uncritical political correctness that avoids hard
questions about national identity and imposes no obligations on immigrants. For
these well-meaning idealists, there is no such thing as too much diversity.

The right thing for the United States to do -- and the best way to keep
Americans in favor of immigration -- is to take national identity seriously
while maintaining our  heritage as a land of opportunity. U.S. immigration
policy should be tolerant but also tough. Here are five suggestions:

Â· Overhaul admission priorities. Since 1965, the chief admission criterion has
been family reunification. This was a welcome replacement for the ethnically
discriminatory quota system that preceded it. But once the brothers and sisters
of a current U.S. resident get in, they can sponsor their own extended families.
In 2006, more than 800,000 immigrants were admitted on this basis. By contrast,
only about 70,000 immigrants were admitted on the basis of employment skills,
with an additional 65,000 temporary visas granted to highly skilled workers.

This is backwards. Apart from nuclear families (spouse, minor children, possibly
parents), the special preference for family members should be drastically
reduced. As soon as my father got citizenship, his relatives in the Philippines
asked him to sponsor them. Soon, his mother, brother, sister and sister-in-law
were also U.S. citizens or permanent residents. This was nice for my family, but
frankly there was nothing especially fair about it. Instead, the immigration
system should reward ability and be keyed to the country's labor needs --
skilled or unskilled, technological or agricultural. In particular, we should
significantly increase the number of visas for highly skilled workers, putting
them on a fast track for citizenship.

Â· Make English the official national language. A common language is critical to
cohesion and national identity in an ethnically diverse society. Americans of
all backgrounds should be encouraged to speak more languages -- I've forced my
own daughters to learn Mandarin (minus the threat of chopsticks) -- but offering
Spanish-language public education to Spanish-speaking children is the wrong kind
of indulgence. "Native language education" should be overhauled, and more
stringent English proficiency requirements for citizenship should be set up.

Â· Immigrants must embrace the nation's civic virtues. It took my parents years
to see the importance of participating in the larger community. When I was in
third grade, my mother signed me up for Girl Scouts. I think she liked the
uniforms and merit badges, but when I told her that I was picking up trash and
visiting soup kitchens, she was horrified.

For many immigrants, only family matters. Even when immigrants get involved in
politics, they tend to focus on protecting their own and protesting
discrimination. That they can do so is one of the great virtues of U.S.
democracy. But a mindset based solely on taking care of your own factionalizes
our society.

Like all Americans, immigrants have a responsibility to contribute to the social
fabric. It's up to each immigrant community to fight off an enclave mentality
and give back to their new country. It's not healthy for Chinese to hire only
Chinese, or Koreans only Koreans. By contrast, the free health clinic set up by
Muslim Americans in Los Angeles -- serving the entire poor community -- is a
model to emulate. Immigrants are integrated at the moment when they realize that
their success is inextricably intertwined with everyone else's.

Â· Enforce the law. Illegal immigration, along with terrorism, is the chief
cause of today's anti-immigration backlash. It is also inconsistent with the
rule of law, which, as any immigrant from a developing country will tell you, is
a critical aspect of U.S. national identity. But if we're serious about this
problem, we need to enforce the law against not only illegal aliens, but also
those who hire them. It's the worst of all worlds to allow U.S. employers who
hire illegal aliens -- thus keeping the flow of illegal workers coming -- to
break the law while demonizing the aliens as lawbreakers. An Arizona law set to
take effect on Jan. 1 will tighten the screws on employers who hire undocumented
workers, but this issue can't be left up to a single state.

Â· Make the United States an equal-opportunity immigration magnet. That the 11
million to 20 million illegal immigrants are 80 percent Mexican and Central
American is itself a problem. This is emphatically not for the reason Huntington
gives -- that Hispanics supposedly don't share America's core values. But if the
U.S. immigration system is to reflect and further our ethnically neutral
identity, it must itself be ethnically neutral, offering equal opportunity to
Sudanese, Estonians, Burmese and so on. The starkly disproportionate ratio of
Latinos -- reflecting geographical fortuity and a large measure of law-breaking
-- is inconsistent with this principle.

Immigrants who turn their backs on American values don't deserve to be here. But
those of us who turn our backs on immigrants misunderstand the secret of
America's success and what it means to be American.

amy.chua@yale.edu

Amy Chua, a professor at Yale Law School, is the author of "Day of Empire: How
Hyperpowers Rise to Global Dominance -- And Why They Fall."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; A Sign On Interstate 5 At The San Ysidro Border Crossing Near
San Diego; Photo By Damian Dovarganes -- Associated Press; A sign warns motorist
of undocumented immigrants crossing Interstate 5, north of San Ysidro Border
Crossing, near San Diego, on Thursday, Aug. 8, 1996. The Republican Platform
Committee has been meeting in San Diego to set their platform for the 1996
election. Immigration has been a key topic of debate. (AP Photo/Damian
Dovarganes) *** Interstate highway immigrant crossing sign
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Melting not: Signs in foreign
languages advertise businesses at a strip mall in Atlanta.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

An Immigration Flashpoint, Through Our Lens

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 272 words


How did Prince William County, one of the richest, most diverse counties in the
nation, become a flashpoint in America's battle over immigration? What led to
threats of racial violence during public meetings and grown men screaming at
children on the streets? And how did a team of Asian American documentary
filmmakers end up in the middle, with both pro-immigration and anti-immigration
forces demanding that they take sides?

On Oct. 9, Eric Byler and Annabel Park began posting short video clips on a
YouTube channel they created called "9500Liberty" at
http://www.youtube.com/9500Liberty. The "interactive documentary" project took
its name from a street address in Old Town Manassas where a sign had been
posted, reading: "Prince William Co. Stop Your Racism to Hispanics!" The sign --
on what was known as "Liberty Wall" -- protested a  county policy that requires
police to check immigration status during routine traffic stops and denies some
services to undocumented immigrants. The county, like many places across the
nation, is in the middle of a demographic transformation: Since 1990, its
Hispanic population has quadrupled; today one in five of the county's 360,000
residents is Hispanic; and the number of Asians has more than doubled.

Since it started, "9500Liberty" has been viewed more than 270,000 times and
garnered comments from all over the globe, including hate mail and death
threats. On Friday, Byler testified before the U.S. Civil Rights Commission.

In the following two articles and a video essay on washingtonpost.com/outlook,
the filmmakers turn the camera on themselves and  reflect on their experiences.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 16, 2007 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

The Immigration Hard-Liner

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 422 words


Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) has the only campaign Web site capable of scaring
young children.

Click on http://www.teamtancredo.org and a video shows bloody corpses, glaring
skinheads and menacing faces of all ethnic varieties. "Pushing drugs, raping
kids, destroying lives," the banner reads. "The consequence of open borders."

Most presidential candidates have at least a few policy priorities. Tancredo has
one chief goal: ending illegal immigration. His campaign slogan is simple yet
harsh: "Secure the borders. Deport those who don't belong. Make sure they never
come back."

One of the most conservative Republicans in the 2008 field, the five-term
congressman has a solid pro-gun, antiabortion voting record. But his hard-line
stance on immigration has earned him national fame. Brash acts by other
candidates are heroics in Tancredo's world, and they get him attention -- such
as when he refused to participate in a recent GOP debate sponsored by Univision,
because it was conducted in Spanish.

Tancredo has an amiable manner who comes across as the firebrand next door. But
the former state House member and Education Department official has a nose for
controversy. In 2005, he suggested during a Florida radio interview that if
Muslim terrorists launched a nuclear strike against the United States, "you
could take out their holy sites."

The grandson of Italian immigrants, Tancredo believes that newcomers should
assimilate quickly. That view has defined his political career. In the 1970s,
when he was a member of the Colorado legislature, Tancredo sought to end public
funding of bilingual schools and services for illegal immigrants.

Given his sporadic campaign schedule and meager fundraising, Tancredo has never
made a secret of his real ambition: to influence the immigration debate to
prevent any drift toward accommodation. "Americans across the country are paying
the high price of a government unwilling to do its job and a Congress too
gutless to make it," Tancredo said in April.

In 2005, the congressman helped push through a House bill that included a border
crackdown and tougher employer sanctions but no path to citizenship. Passage of
the bill effectively ended a bipartisan House and Senate push for broader
immigration reform, one of Bush's chief goals.

Tancredo was elected in 1998 during a growth period for Colorado conservatism,
but his state is tilting Democratic now. Whatever the fate of his presidential
bid, Tancredo has  said that he will retire from the House after his current
term.

-- Shailagh Murray

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Shannon Stapleton -- Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Terms of the Immigration Debate

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 161 words


The Dec. 13 editorial "The Immigration Swamp" put a dubious spin on a new Pew
Hispanic Center survey, stating that "half of all Hispanics in America reported
that the debate on immigration has had a specific negative impact on their
lives; 41 percent said they or someone close to them had suffered discrimination
in the past five years -- up from 31 percent in 2002." The editorial claimed
"the new data undercut the Republicans' frequent protestations that their
targets are not legal immigrants but illegal ones."

Not really. The data just reflect the impact of the  huge growth of illegals,
who compete with many Hispanics here already, as well as  the growing
dissatisfaction among all Americans regarding this unsolved crisis.

Let's have a discussion on what makes sense for  U.S. citizens and stop calling
citizens "nativists," a word that has morphed into equal status with "racists."

DONALD A. COLLINS

Board Member

Federation for American Immigration Reform

Washington

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Homes With a Bit of the Homeland;
Builders Are Catering to Area's Increasing Immigrant Population

BYLINE: Annie Gowen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1458 words


Chuck Langpaul Jr. has been in the custom home business for more than a decade,
so he thought he knew a thing or two about groundbreaking ceremonies: Hoist a
shovel, snap a picture and it's done.

Then, a Hindu family in Great Falls asked him to build its home on ancient
principles of Indian design. The groundbreaking occurred on a warm day decreed
as auspicious by an astrological chart. A priest poured milk and honey on the
ground and chanted mantras, asking the earth's forgiveness for the construction
disturbance to come. Dozens of friends and relatives gathered and, when it was
over, ate curry and rice from a buffet set up on card tables in the bare lot.

Langpaul was surprised, honored and a bit flustered by the two-hour-long
ceremony. "I think they invited everyone they knew," he said. "It was culture
shock for me."

As the Washington region's population of foreign-born residents tops 1 million,
the influx is changing the way homes and subdivisions are built. Custom home
builders are planning prayer rooms for Indian families and using feng shui, the
Chinese art of home design, for Asian customers. They're fielding requests for
white brick and mortar, rather than bricks made from Virginia clay, from
customers who want to evoke the sun-baked dwellings of their Middle Eastern
homelands.

Ram Balasubramanian, who immigrated to the United States in 1989, bought a home
in a new South Riding subdivision in Loudoun County three years ago and spent
$220,000 on extras to modify it to traditional Indian design, including a prayer
room.

"The architecture might be looking like the local American style of
architecture, but the ambiance and friendliness, that is pretty much the way it
is back home. It's what keeps us going," Balasubramanian said.

Even in the housing downturn, the trend is flourishing locally because home
buyers now have the luxury of asking for special accommodations from builders or
the leisure to look at several homes before selecting one that can fulfill their
cultural needs, experts say.

"It's becoming more diverse, so there are a lot of options we're putting in
homes we never had to think of before," said Gregg Hughes, general sales manager
for Keswick Homes, a custom builder.

Foreign-born residents make up a growing share of U.S. homeowners at all income
levels, but particularly first-time buyers, according to Zhu Xiao Di, a senior
research analyst at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University.
Locally, foreign-born residents make up about 16 percent of recent home buyers
in Maryland, 15 percent in Virginia and 12 percent in the District, according to
the center's analysis of U.S. Census data.

Nationally, former U.S. Housing and Urban Development secretary Henry G.
Cisneros is spearheading a movement to design homes and communities that will
appeal to the Latino consumer, the fastest-growing segment of the population.

Last year, he edited a book on the subject, "Casa y Comunidad," for the National
Association of Home Builders. The book advocates residential construction that
meets the Latino community's needs, adding space for in-law suites for elderly
parents and larger kitchens with roomier pantries and gas stoves. ("Only a gas
oven works well for tortillas," the book says.)

"This is really critical because it will be one of the driving forces of the
home-building industry going forward," Cisneros said. "The numbers are so
powerful. A large percentage of the home buyers of the future are going to be
minorities or persons that came as immigrants."

Three years ago, Centex Homes sales representatives who were marketing Grand
Manor townhouses in the Lansdowne community in Loudoun noticed that Asian buyers
avoided purchasing a model in which the stairs leading up from the foyer lined
up exactly with the front door. They learned that such an alignment is bad feng
shui. It portends that luck will run out of the home.

"It raised our awareness," said Char Kurihara, vice president of sales in
Virginia for the Dallas-based builder. Now, they've largely abandoned the
traditional center-hall, colonial floor plan in this region, a style ubiquitous
in the outer suburbs, Centex officials said. They've also done more demographic
research.

They learned that about 50 percent of likely buyers for their New Bristow
Village community in Prince William County would be Latino families and other
foreign-born residents, so they introduced a model with a den that could be
converted into a bedroom for grandparents and a connected living and dining room
that would give more space for large family parties.

Home builders in the South and West have begun building homes with more and
smaller bedrooms than the traditional four-bedroom house, also to appeal to some
immigrant families in which many generations live under one roof.

However, the trend parallels the specter of illegal boarding houses -- large
homes built with many small bedrooms that are then rented out, sometimes by an
absentee landlord -- which has sparked controversy in Fairfax and Prince William
counties. One Latino homeowner in the Falls Church area recently backed off
plans to build a 13-bedroom, 13-bath home after neighborhood outcry.

But Fairfax Board of Supervisors member Penelope A. Gross (D-Mason) said many of
the illegal boarding houses shut down by the county's code enforcement strike
team are older ramblers.

"Just because someone builds a McMansion doesn't mean it's going to be a
boarding house," Gross said.

Hindu priests at the Sri Siva Vishnu Temple in Lanham and the Rajdhani Mandir
Temple in Chantilly have been advising a steady stream of immigrants from India,
many of whom came to the region for the high-tech jobs at companies in the
Dulles corridor, who want to buy or build their houses around the principles of
vastu shastra. The calls have increased in the past two years because
prospective home buyers now have many homes to choose from and can pick those
designed closest to vastu shastra principles, the priests said.

Vastu shastra is the ancient Indian design philosophy that governs
temple-building and is used now to create harmony in living spaces.

It suggests building homes facing east to soak up sunlight, for example, and
placing the kitchen in the center as the symbolic heart of the home. Some Indian
buyers have eschewed foreclosed homes because vastu shastra teaches that it's
best to live in a home with positive energy, where the residents have been happy
and prosperous.

Balasubramanian, 46, bought a home in The Retreat at South Village three years
ago. The neighborhood appealed to Balasubramanian, a real estate agent, and his
wife, Bharathi, because it is a locus for the fast-growing Indian community in
Loudoun and western Fairfax. South Riding has an Indian community association
that holds events around holidays such as Diwali, the Festival of Lights. The
local Giant stocks such staples as dried lentils, yogurt and rice flour.

Several sheets of scratched-up blueprints later, he and his wife had their dream
home, a suburban brick colonial built around the principles of vastu shastra.
The home has a kitchen with a granite countertop in the center, a lamp-lit
prayer room upstairs and a balcony off the master bedroom where tea can be
sipped in the mornings.

Six Hindu priests chanted in the solarium at their crowded housewarming party,
Balasubramanian said, and the air fairly hummed.

"I'm a big believer in creating positive energy," he said one recent evening as
he and Bharathi, 42, who works for a local information technology firm, prepared
dinner for their 13-year-old son, Mukundh, and other family members. (The
couple's other son, Arun, is a sophomore at the University of Virginia.)

But the construction journey was not always peaceful. Bharathi Balasubramanian
said it would have been easier and cheaper to put the prayer room in the
basement. "I bugged him about it because I was not comfortable keeping God's
room downstairs and walking on top of God," she said. "It didn't feel right."

They ended up carving a space for the prayer room, called a puja room, from the
upstairs guest bathroom. It's her favorite place, where the family mediates or
prays together. That evening, her sister-in-law, one of the dinner guests, knelt
before the prayer room to pour rice flour on a board to draw an intricate
pattern called a kolam, which she then drew again outside on the slate steps of
the house, a Hindu tradition.

"It reminds you of your own childhood," Bharathi Balasubramanian said of the
prayer room. "In India, everyone had their own puja room. It's a part of who you
are basically . . . wherever you find your own niche, what's in your heart,
invariably that's something from your childhood."

Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Ram Balasubramanian
and his sister-in-law Latha Balasubramanian sit outside a prayer room in his
home in Chantilly.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 24, 2007 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Divided by Deportation;
Unexpected Orders to Return to Countries Leave Families in Anguish During
Holidays

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1246 words


It was 5 a.m. when immigration agents knocked on the door of the DÃ­az family's
neatly kept house in Baltimore County, with the twin plaid couches and the
Lord's Supper woodcut over the kitchen table. Edwin, 13, and Cynthia, 8, woke up
just in time to see their mother put into a van and driven away. The moment
several months ago changed almost everything about their quiet, close-knit life.

"Since that day, nothing has been the same," said Miguel DÃ­az, 42, a
construction worker and labor union representative from El Salvador. "I know my
wife made a mistake all those years ago, but we have worked hard, lived decently
and never caused any trouble. Shouldn't the punishment fit the crime? Her place
is here with us, with her children. What kind of society is this that would
suddenly take her away?"

Edwin, listening somberly on the sofa, said it was especially hard having his
mother gone at Christmastime. She was not here last week to hear him sing
"Jingle Bells" in the school chorus or to arrange her ceramic manger tableau of
animals and wise men. "She always did it a certain way," he said. "In the end,
we decided not to put it up."

Fidelia DÃ­az is one of thousands of illegal immigrants and longtime residents
who have been deported this year -- cornered by complicated pasts that caught up
with them long after they thought the overburdened immigration system had
conveniently forgotten or magically forgiven them.

Many, like the 38-year-old Salvadoran woman, crossed the border illegally when
they were young, single and eager to find a better life. Others came as tourists
and overstayed their visas, keeping a low profile or moving frequently to avoid
detection. Some were snagged in raids on factories or farms; others were tracked
down by "fugitive operations teams" armed with decades-old deportation orders.

Still others committed immigration offenses, such as marriage fraud or traveling
abroad without permission, that were suddenly rediscovered and disqualified them
when they attempted to apply for legal status years later with help from lawyers
who were not fully aware of their pasts.

According to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 273,289 foreign-born
residents have been sent back to their native countries for immigration
violations in the past year.

Many had been in the United States only a few weeks, but countless others had
put down roots, taken out mortgages and raised families by the time the law--
and the recently beefed-up immigration enforcement system-- came back to haunt
them.

"I know this is a politically sensitive issue, an emotional issue. But we have
to enforce the law, and the law is very clear," said Michael Keegan, an ICE
spokesman. "It states simply that if an individual is out of status, having a
U.S.-born child does not qualify the parent to gain legal status. Even if they
have relatives who are U.S. citizens, the law doesn't bleed over to give them
the same rights."

Immigration judges have limited discretion to consider family circumstances and
homeland conditions, but if a deportation order has been issued-- no matter how
long ago-- and the illegal immigrant has failed to appear for the hearing, that
person is considered to have already had a "day in court" and is not eligible
for special consideration.

In some cases, an immigrant's past catches up with him at an especially
difficult moment. Samir Saleh, an Israeli hairdresser, came to the United States
in the 1990s as a tourist and married a young American woman in what was later
ruled a case of immigration fraud. He appealed the ruling but eventually
divorced, remarried and settled in Cleveland.

Last April, Saleh was deported to Israel for immigration fraud, just as his
second wife learned she had terminal cancer. His attorney, Philip Eichorn, said
he filed for a temporary visa on humanitarian grounds so they could be together
for the holidays, but it was denied last week. His wife, now bald from
chemotherapy, made a decision.

"She told me, 'I am done with this country. I have a little time left, and I
want to spend it with him,' " Eichorn said in a telephone interview Saturday.
"They were really in love. You couldn't stage the joy on her face in their
wedding photos. She left for Israel yesterday."

For illegal immigrants who commit serious crimes, deportation is both legally
automatic and more efficiently enforced than in the past. Immigration officials
say they are working with every federal prison and many state and local prisons
to ensure such inmates are deported after serving their sentences. In 2007,
about 89,000 such people were deported, Keegan said.

Sometimes, however, immigration laws end up punishing people who appear to have
led exemplary lives. The case of Esperanza Ramirez, 62, who was deported to
Mexico in October, has stunned the network of relatives and friends in San Diego
to whom she was a quiet but indomitable role model.

Ramirez, who crossed the Mexican border illegally in 1979, spent the next 27
years working as a hotel maid, avocado packer and office cleaner to put seven
children through school. They earned degrees, found good jobs, got married and
produced 12 grandchildren.

Along the way, her daughter Norma ChÃ¡vez said in a telephone interview, the
family made attempts to obtain legal immigration status for her. First they
obtained a temporary work permit, which was extended repeatedly. Then they
applied for legal residency three times, gathering support letters and waiting
for hearings. In September, Ramirez was told to report to the U.S. consulate in
JuÃ¡rez, Mexico, for an interview.

"I guess it should have raised a red flag, but we all thought she was going
there to pick up her green card," ChÃ¡vez recounted. "Instead, the consulate
told her the application had been denied and that she was barred from returning"
to the United States for 10 years. "Just like that, she was gone," she said.

Now Ramirez is living alone in the village the rest of her family left years
ago. The children call her often, and she tells them she is doing fine, but
ChÃ¡vez said she was sounding "a little sadder" as the holidays approached. "We
always have tamales at Christmas, but she's the only one who knows how to make
them," ChÃ¡vez said. "Now we are trying to figure out how to do it ourselves."

Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said she has seen many cases of unjust and destructive
deportations. She said that although immigration enforcement is "an important
priority, our laws are so broken that enforcement ends up targeting the wrong
people. Families are being ripped apart, and people are being deported for
decades-old conduct that they have since rectified."

For immigrant families with young U.S.-born children, the deportation of a
spouse or breadwinner presents especially wrenching difficulties. Miguel DÃ­az
said that his children miss their mother terribly but that there is no way he
would send them home to be with her. In Baltimore, they are immersed in science
and math, church and sports. In El Salvador, they would be surrounded by
poverty, crime and gangs.

"It is no place to raise a family, with so much insecurity. Even without her,
they are better off here," said DÃ­az, who plans to apply for U.S. citizenship
so he can sponsor his wife for legal residency, which could take 10 years. "This
is very hard, and very unfair, but we will get through it," he vowed. "We are a
strong family, and this will make us more united."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; Edwin DÃ­az, 13, of
Baltimore wishes his mother could have been here for his school concert.
IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; Earlier this year, Edwin DÃ­az
and his sister Cynthia, 8, woke up just in time to see their mother driven away
in a van at 5 a.m. Edwin says Christmastime is hard.
IMAGE; Courtesy Of The Family Of Esperanza Ramirez; Esperanza Ramirez, 62,
immigrated illegally in 1979. In Mexico since this fall, she is barred from
returning.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 27, 2007 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Keeps Population From Declining in D.C. Region

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 335 words


Maryland and the District continue to lose residents to other places, but they
make up for the loss by gaining immigrants, according to Census Bureau estimates
to be released today.

Virginia came out a little ahead in the give-and-take with other states between
July 2006 and July 2007, but it grew much more through immigration. The three
jurisdictions had a net population gain of less than 1 percent for the year.

The new Census Bureau data on state populations closely mirror last year's
estimates and reflect a massive ongoing shift from Northeastern and Midwestern
states to the South in recent years.

In the past year, the Northeast and Midwest had a combined net loss of 558,901
residents, almost entirely to the South. At the same time, immigrants have
flocked to the South and West, and the populations of some Southern and Western
states have increased substantially, the estimates show.

Texas gained almost 500,000 people in the one-year period covered by the data.
California, the nation's most populous state, gained about 300,000.

Nevada and Arizona were the nation's fastest-growing states, with population
increases of nearly 3 percent each.

Louisiana began to rebound from its post-Hurricane Katrina population loss of
about 250,000 residents, gaining nearly 50,000 people in the one-year period,
for a total population of 4.3 million.

In the same period, Maryland grew by 0.3 percent, to 5,618,344, according to the
estimates. It had a net loss of 36,270 residents to other states and lost 43,205
people to deaths, but it gained 17,704 immigrants and 77,910 newborns, for a net
increase of 16,327 residents.

The District had a net loss of 3,141 residents to other states but gained 3,358
through immigration. Gains from immigration and births produced a population
increase of 0.5 percent, to 588,292.

Virginia, which grew by 0.9 percent, to 7,712,091, managed to attract more
residents from other states than it lost to them. But the net gain was 2,959
people, compared with 21,455 through immigration.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                                Regional Edition

If Arizona's Law Succeeds

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 195 words


The Post hyperbolized when it  faulted Arizona law for its failure to recognize
"the plain reality of America's need for  immigrant labor" ["Immigration Ground
Zero," editorial, Dec. 26].

According to  a July Census report, there are 54,277,000 Americans ages 16 to 64
who aren't in the labor force. This includes 23 million "less-educated" adults
who, for a variety of reasons, don't have a job.

Narrowing this down further,  there are 14 million people actively seeking
employment who can't find a full-time job in today's economy, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. If the supply of illegal workers were to dry up
through Arizona's new enforcement programs, employers in the state would be
forced to respond by offering higher wages, increased benefits and improved
working conditions. Employers would have more incentives to modernize and
eliminate unnecessary workers. The result would be a new deal for unskilled
American  and legal workers because they would be better paid and have more
enlightened work environments.

Can you imagine it:  Shifting the costs of illegal immigrant employment from the
taxpayers to the marketplace?

MICHAEL SCOTT

Glendora, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 517 words

We Are Not 'Nativists'

I am disturbed that The Post uses the term "nativist" to suggest that all
opponents of illegal immigration are troglodytes against virtually all forms of
immigration. For instance, a Nov. 30 editorial was headlined "The Newest
Nativists."

This does an injustice to the many for whom the crux of the issue is illegality.
Perhaps the notion that lawbreaking should not be rationalized, let alone
rewarded, is outmoded. I hope that The Post does not adhere to that view.

I have always supported legal immigration. My parents emigrated long ago from
Eastern Europe. In their day, immigrants were anxious to become full-fledged
Americans as swiftly as possible, while holding onto their root traditions.

My son-in-law, who is Bosnian, recently was sworn into U.S. citizenship after
jumping through all the required hoops over five years. Those who want to be
Americans should heed his example.

-- Fred S. Hoffman

Alexandria

Get the Lead Out

On Jan. 1, 1996, a national ban on selling all leaded gasoline for on-road
vehicles took effect.

Why is it that in his car reviews Warren Brown keeps on talking of "unleaded"
fuel, giving the impression that it's something special, when leaded fuel isn't
even available at service stations? Isn't it time for him to catch up to where
his readership is?

-- Wolfger Schneider

Columbia

The Queen City Is Not Amused

 I have noticed, once again, the incorrect spelling of the Ohio city, Cincinnati
(one "t" is correct). It appeared in Dec. 19 Sports Line as "Cincinnatti." In as
much as there are both a major league baseball team and an NFL franchise in the
city, its name is mentioned frequently in the Sports section, presenting the
opportunity for someone to learn the correct spelling of the city's name.

How can this error occur? Do you not have a spell-check routine as part of the
standard editing process?

-- Phyllis Ingram

Oakton

The writer grew up in southwestern Ohio.

Smarter Than the Average . . . ?

 We expected more from the supposedly astute Book World section of The Post!
Twice in the review of Newt Gingrich and Terry L. Maple's "A Contract with the
Earth" -- once in the text and once in the caption to a photo -- the article
referred to "Smokey the Bear."

For shame! It's no more Smokey the Bear than it's Santa the Claus or Mickey the
Mouse. For the sake of the U.S. Forest Service, it's Smokey Bear!

-- Don Hirschfeld

Temple Hills

Zut Alors

Your writer Hank Stuever should be rapped over his je ne sais quoi for having
allowed himself the phrase "quelle tragique" in his article about the artist and
filmmaker Julian Schnabel ["Depth Perception; 'Diving Bell's' Potential Was
Clear to Filmmaker Julian Schnabel," Style, Dec. 19].

One can say "quelle tragÃ©die" or "si tragique," but "quelle tragique" is simply
ungrammatical.

However, perhaps this was fitting in an article that quoted its subject as
saying, redundantly, that his movie "was a self-help device for myself" and
then, fatuously, that "only he would notice" that the recording of a Bach piano
concerto used in his film was not by Glenn Gould.

-- Jerrold Levinson

University Park

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Mark Gong -- The Washington Post; Burning gas on 14th Street
in the District.
IMAGE; Courtesy U.s. Forest Service

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

New Year to Spotlight Familiar Issues;
As Power Shifts, Legislators Are Expected to Focus on Budget, Immigration,
Driving Fees

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA01

LENGTH: 924 words


RICHMOND

Virginia legislators will return to the state capital next week for a 60-day
session likely to be focused on the budget, illegal immigration, abusive-driving
fees and reforms to the state's mental health system.

The session could also produce more than the usual share of political drama.

It starts with Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) seeking to leave his imprint as he
begins the final two years of his term. He will have support in the Senate from
the new Democratic majority, which has a 21 to 19 advantage.

The leadership change after the November elections has produced an unprecedented
shift in power to women, minorities and lawmakers from Northern Virginia. Of the
11 Senate committees, seven will be chaired by women. There will also be four
African American chairmen. Seven of the committee heads are from Northern
Virginia.

Sen. Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) will be the new majority leader, which will
ensure that the state's most populous region benefits from its new prominence in
Richmond.

But with Republicans in firm control of the House of Delegates, some analysts
predict that the General Assembly is headed for gridlock.

The first real test of how the chambers work together could come in this year's
budget deliberations. Last month, Kaine introduced a two-year, $78 billion
spending plan that increases money for public education, health care and
environmental protection.

The governor isn't calling for a tax increase, but he is proposing a $10
increase in the $20 driver's license renewal fee, which state motorists pay once
every five years.

Many of Kaine's initiatives are modest because the downturn in the housing
market has slowed growth in tax revenues.

He wants the state to partner with small businesses to extend subsidized health
insurance to 5,000 of the estimated 1 million Virginians without coverage. Kaine
also calls for enrolling an additional 7,000 low-income children in
pre-kindergarten, at a cost of $56 million over two years.

The state's mental health system, in which serious weaknesses were exposed by
last year's Virginia Tech massacre, would receive an additional $42 million over
two years under his plan.

Although GOP leaders have embraced Kaine's spending proposals for mental health
services, they are ready to fight other initiatives because they say the state
cannot afford them.

Kaine projects 3.2 percent revenue growth in the fiscal year beginning July 1,
more than doubling to 6.6 percent by fiscal 2010. Some Republicans say that
Kaine's revenue projections are too optimistic, given speculation that the U.S.
economy may be headed into a recession.

"That is going to be the primary challenge," said Del. Phillip A. Hamilton
(R-Newport News), vice chairman of the Appropriations Committee. "How do we
address the core services of state government within an economy that is
producing less revenue than anticipated?"

Hamilton said the Republicans might want to revise revenue projections in 2010
to 4.5 percent, meaning that they would have to trim Kaine's budget by $375
million.

Republicans say spending on Kaine's pre-K initiative could be the first thing to
be reduced or eliminated.

Democrats will fight back, arguing that Republicans are trying to undermine
Kaine by targeting one of his legislative priorities.

"I think we are going to have to work very hard to rise above the partisanship,"
said Sen. R. Edward Houck (D-Spotsylvania). "Partisanship will be the greatest
obstacle to success right now."

Fierce partisan battles also may erupt over illegal immigration.

House and Senate Republicans have said they will push to prohibit public
colleges and universities from accepting illegal immigrants even if they
attended public high schools and were brought to the United States at an early
age.

GOP leaders also want city and county jails to check the immigration status of
detainees and crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants. Some
conservative Republicans propose going further, with legislation that would
prohibit state and local governments from offering services to people who are in
the country illegally.

But Kaine and Saslaw have indicated they have little appetite for additional
state efforts to crack down on illegal immigration, saying it's an issue that
should be left to the federal government.

The Senate and House may also deadlock over repealing new fees assessed against
bad drivers. The abusive-driving fees, which took effect July 1, are assessed on
felony and misdemeanor driving convictions, including reckless driving and
driving under the influence.

Many Senate Democrats, including all of the newly elected ones, want to repeal
the fees, saying they are bad public policy.

House Republicans are expected to resist. Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) has
introduced a bill to collect the fees from out-of-state drivers as well. The
bill would also limit the offenses that would trigger a fee, rewrite the
reckless-driving statute and give judges more latitude on whether to suspend a
license.

Republicans warn that any effort to repeal the fees could undermine the 2007
transportation bill, which also authorizes Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads
to impose taxes and fees through regional authorities.

"If someone made a motion to repeal it today, I think it would pass," Hamilton
said about the proposal for the Hampton Roads taxing authority.

There will also be debates over requiring background checks before a weapon can
be purchased at a gun show, whether voters should have to register by party and
whether payday lenders should be subject to tighter regulation.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Alexandria-Arlington

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sue Kovach Shuman -- The Washington Post; Beginning next
week, state legislators will meet in Richmond for a 60-day session. Democrats
control the Senate by a slim margin; Republicans are firmly in charge of the
House of Delegates.
IMAGE; By Steve Helber -- Associated Press; Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D), shown
addressing the House appropriations and Senate finance committees last month,
introduced a two-year, $78 billion spending plan focusing on education, health
care and environmental protection.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 6, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 569 words


Virginia officials should soon find out whether the federal government will
contribute its share of funding for the Metrorail extension to Tysons Corner,
Reston and Dulles International Airport.

The consultant overseeing an exercise in futurism in Tysons Corner says this is
the year it can really begin. "Whenever the Federal Transit Administration says,
'Okay, here's your $900 million,' that's when it starts," said Clark Tyler,
volunteer chairman of the Tysons Corner Land Use Task Force. "We're talking
about massive redevelopment in Tysons."

The idea is to harness the increase in land values around the proposed Tysons
stops to help pay for remaking an area roughly the size of downtown Boston into
an urban center. Among the ideas: adding tens of thousands of residences and
tens of millions of square feet of offices and stores, a street layout to
encourage walking and other transportation fixes, parks and improvements.

After three years of work, the task force is set to make its recommendations in
April.

Local Immigration Enforcement

Prince William County supervisors helped turn Northern Virginia into a hot spot
in the national debate over illegal immigration.

Now, months after the board voted to increase immigration enforcement by police
and to try to block access to some public services, supporters of the measures
have the task of proving that the moves were more substance than flash -- and
that they represent good policy.

Judging the impact will be a charged affair, especially in a national election
year. Many of the plans were pared down because of state and federal
restrictions, supporters say. Still, even before the measures are in place, some
officials are claiming victories.

"I don't think any of it is rhetoric," said Supervisor John T. Stirrup Jr.
(R-Gainesville), a key backer. He said that he has heard anecdotal reports that
some illegal boarding houses have shut down and that some poor, uninsured women,
who he said he thinks were in the United States illegally, have stopped going to
Prince William Hospital to have babies. A spokeswoman said that all births are
down and that the hospital does not ask about legal status.

"There will be a noticeable reduction of illegal aliens in Prince William
County," Stirrup said.

Toll Lanes on the Capital Beltway

As workers begin building 14 miles of toll lanes on the Capital Beltway this
year, Virginia will also be breaking ground on a $1.9 billion experiment in the
wisdom of relying on the private sector to solve some of its biggest
transportation problems.

Two companies, Fluor Enterprises and toll-road operator Transurban, have agreed
to fund all but $409 million of the project, which will go from Springfield to
McLean and include major interchanges. Carpools and buses will travel free. In
exchange, the companies will get the right to 75 years of toll revenue and have
no limits on what they can charge commuters.

State officials said the project reflects the realities of limited resources and
worsening congestion.

"We just simply do not have the financial resources to build the capacity we
need," said Barbara Reese, Virginia's deputy secretary of transportation. Once
the lanes are completed in five years, electronic signs will display the toll,
which will vary based on traffic.

Drivers decide what they're willing to pay, "almost like going to a retail
outlet," Reese said. "It's all about being market-based."

-- Michael Laris

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Di Domenico + Partners, New York; Changes in the Tysons Corner
area that would accompany Metrorail service to Dulles could include a station at
Route 7 and Spring Hill Road.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 6, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Regional Task Force Helps Track Fugitive;
U.S. Officials Credit Collaboration in Arrest of Man Charged in Child Sex
Battery Case

BYLINE: Theresa Vargas; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 502 words


Federal officials announced last week the arrest of a fugitive illegal immigrant
charged with a crime against a minor in Prince William County, calling the
capture a cross-jurisdictional win.

Raul Ernesto Sarmiento Sanchez, 48, a native of Honduras, had been a fugitive
since 1997, when he ignored an immigration judge's deportation order, officials
with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said. Instead of leaving the
country, Sarmiento Sanchez remained in the area.

He was charged in Prince William with domestic assault in 1998 and sexual
battery against a child in January 2007, officials said.

Last Thursday, he was caught hiding in a closet in a Fairfax County apartment.

The arrest, by ICE officers, was a result of the agency's participation in the
Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force, officials said. The group, led by the
U.S. Marshals Service, is made up of federal, state and local law enforcement
agencies across the region.

"In this case, our membership in this task force resulted in the arrest of an
ICE fugitive who was also wanted by local authorities," acting ICE Field Office
Director Vincent Archibeque said in a news release. "It was a win-win
situation."

Sarmiento Sanchez is thought to have entered the country in 1990, said Pat
Reilly, a spokeswoman for ICE. He was being held in Prince William jail and will
be tried on the local charges before facing deportation, she said.

Reilly said teamwork among law enforcement agencies has been strong on cases
such as this, involving minors.

"This arrest is one of more than 10,100 that we have made since 2003 across the
nation on everything to do with the exploitation of children," Reilly said.
"It's a priority for the agency but also a personal priority for a lot of our
agents."

Prince William police obtained a warrant against Sarmiento Sanchez last January,
stemming from an incident in December 2006. Police said he inappropriately
touched a 14-year-old girl whose family knew him. When authorities began
searching for him, he was thought to have fled to Honduras, Prince William
Police Chief Charlie T. Deane said.

Officers were having a hard time finding him when they turned to the task force,
which has among its members a Prince William detective, Deane said.

"We have participated in this fugitive task force since its inception three
years ago, and it's been a very successful collaborative effort in apprehending
fugitives, especially those who have gone out of the county and out of the state
in many cases," Deane said.

Since June 2004, the task force has closed nearly 13,000 warrants and arrested
about 11,000 fugitives, task force supervisor Barry Boright said.

Boright said that many state and local agencies that are members have thousands
of open felony warrants on individuals and that they are encouraged to bring in
their violent fugitive cases.

"Typically, we take the worst of the worst," Boright said. "We're looking for
murderers, rapists, child molesters, people who are on the run and typically
cannot be found."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2008 Monday
                                 Every Edition

PMC to Do Tech Work for U.S. Customs

BYLINE: Alice Lipowicz; Special to the Washington Post

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. D04

LENGTH: 421 words


Performance Management Consulting of McLean will develop an updated computer
infrastructure for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement under two contracts
totaling $25 million.

Under the first contract, valued at about $13 million, PMC will build a computer
system that services all of the agency's units, said MaryAnn Hoadley, vice
president of business development for Aviel Systems, PMC's McLean-based parent
company.

The project is part of a modernization of the agency's information technology
systems. The program, known as Atlas, includes updates of hardware such as
servers, routers and storage devices as well as software for database
management, operating systems and network management. It also incorporates
initiatives for information sharing, information security and workplace
productivity.

PMC has managed the Atlas project under a separate contract since 2005, so
taking on additional responsibility for installing the computer systems and
equipment was a natural outgrowth of that, Hoadley said.

"We have been supporting the Department of Homeland Security since it was the
[Immigration and Naturalization Service]," Hoadley said. "The common computing
environment involves integrating the computer infrastructure so that everyone is
operating on the same platform."

Under the second contract, valued at about $12 million, PMC will establish and
operate a project management office for the engineering division that reports to
ICE's chief information officer. The office will be in charge of information
technology modernization initiatives, including help with budget tracking and
formulation, contracts and acquisition support, scheduling and project tracking.

PMC's employees will do work under the two contracts in several locations
throughout the District, Maryland and Northern Virginia, Hoadley said.

PMC was founded in 1997 as a woman-owned small business that focused on
management consulting. In 2005, the company was acquired by Optimus Corp.,
another government contractor. Both firms had mostly federal clients, including
the Federal Aviation Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency.

Aviel was formed in January 2006 as a holding company for PMC and Optimus. Most
of Aviel's work is in supporting federal information technology systems. Aviel
Systems has about 400 employees and revenue of $75 million to $80 million
annually, Hoadley said.

Alice Lipowicz is a staff writer with Washington Technology magazine. For more
news on government contracts, go to http://www.washingtontechnology.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2008 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Romney Puts Focus On Immigration;
He Hopes to Sting McCain on Hot-Button Issue

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1000 words


MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 6 -- Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney sought on
Sunday to revive his party's contentious debate over illegal immigration, hoping
to remind voters in New Hampshire of the issue that stoked conservative anger
and nearly derailed Sen. John McCain's presidential campaign last summer.

The senator from Arizona returned the fire, telling reporters that Romney "has
changed his position on almost every major issue" and flatly declaring that he
"will win" the New Hampshire primary. Manchester's Union Leader, the state's
largest newspaper, weighed in with its second front-page endorsement of McCain,
calling him "the real deal" and "by far the best qualified individual to lead
America."

Former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee, making an aggressive push to finish at
least third here, found one of the few evangelical churches in the state to
speak to in Windham, where he delivered a sermon that did not touch on politics
but called on the congregation to be part of "God's army." He then headed to a
rally with actor Chuck Norris, his sidekick at every event here, and went on a
seven-mile run in Manchester before heading off to the second Republican debate
in two nights.

In that forum, hosted by Fox News Channel, five candidates clashed for 90
minutes over immigration, taxes, government spending, terrorism and the need for
change in Washington. Fox did not allow Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) to take part.

The most heated exchange came when Romney accused Huckabee of raising taxes
while governor. Huckabee retorted by asking Romney whether he raised $500
million in fees, and said: "You know, Mitt, let's talk about how stubborn the
facts are. Answer the question."

Romney retorted: "Mike, you make up facts faster than you talk. And that's
saying something."

But the focus of the day seemed to be on Romney and the prospect that his
big-budget, highly organized campaign may be on the verge of a spectacular
collapse if he loses Tuesday's primary.

Romney held just one event Sunday, a town hall meeting in Nashua with almost 400
people. He spent part of the day taping a two-minute commercial that the
campaign calls its "closing argument" for New Hampshire and will air Monday
night.

Struggling to right his campaign with less than 48 hours before the polls open,
Romney repeatedly accused McCain of wanting to allow illegal immigrants to
remain in the country even after the southern border is secured.

"What his posture does is, it says that every alien in this country that's here
illegally gets to stay here for the rest of their life, and that is wrong,"
Romney said on ABC's "This Week."

He repeated the accusation in Nashua, earning raucous applause when he asserted
that McCain's position "will only encourage more illegal immigration. It is time
to stop illegal immigration."

Faced with a new poll that shows him trailing McCain, Romney is betting that
highlighting his rival's role in sponsoring an immigration bill with Democratic
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.) will help rekindle the anger that many
conservatives felt last summer, when the issue dominated conservative talk
radio.

But the issue may have since lost its volatility. The overhaul bill is no longer
pending in Congress, and McCain has said he now supports securing the border
before implementing the provisions that angered so many in his party. And
Romney's recent immigration charges have caused him problems as well.

In Saturday's debate, Romney said he had never used the word "amnesty" in attack
ads against McCain. On Sunday morning, after being shown two of his ads that
used the word, he admitted that he was wrong. He also has struggled to explain
why, in 2005, he called an initial proposal by McCain "reasonable." He says the
proposal was different from McCain's later immigration bill.

Romney also continued to hammer McCain for voting against tax cuts that
President Bush endorsed. And he continued to portray the senator as  incapable
of shaking up politics.

"Americans are not looking for Washington insiders," Romney said. "They are
looking for change, and change is what we are going to give them."

In Salem, McCain spoke to about 1,000 people who packed the Woodbury School's
gymnasium. He defended his record on taxes, Iran and Iraq in what amounted to a
debate with several critics in the audience.

He even made fun of his earlier gaffes on the campaign trail; when one voter
asked him about his policy on Iran, he said, "I certainly wouldn't sing the
Beach Boys song ever again," referring to the time in April when he belted out
"Bomb Iran" to the tune of "Barbara Ann" before a group of veterans in South
Carolina.

Several New Hampshire voters, in Salem and elsewhere, said they were leaning
toward supporting McCain but had not decided.

Matt Fitzgerald, a Windham resident who attended McCain's town hall meeting,
said he appreciates the senator's willingness to reach across the aisle but is
not convinced he can repeat any victory he achieves in New Hampshire. "I'm not
sure McCain can win the whole thing," Fitzgerald said. "I voted for him before,
and the whole thing fell apart."

Huckabee also laid claim to the mantle of Washington outsider Sunday morning,
explaining to a crowd of hundreds in Windham that he is best positioned to
reform an ossified federal government.

"I'm not a part of what's wrong, I'm a part of what could be right," Huckabee
said. "I'm not part of the Washington scene. That's one of the reasons they are
going crazy down there."

Most of the voters who attended Huckabee's "Chowderfest Meet and Greet" said
they came because they wanted to learn more about him. Dan Ryan, who is building
a house in Conway, said he prefers Romney but would back Huckabee if he got the
Republican nomination.

"Our primary issue with him is the lack of experience, the lack of business
experience, Chuck Norris as secretary of defense," Ryan said.

Staff writers Perry Bacon Jr. and Juliet Eilperin in New Hampshire and
researcher Rena Kirsch in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Linda Davidson -- The Washington Post; Mitt Romney leaves a
town hall meeting in Nashua, N.H., where he criticized John McCain's stance on
immigration, hoping in part to evoke some of the anger from conservatives over
McCain's overhaul plan last summer. Romney is trailing McCain in a new state
poll.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 12, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

'Huckabee' Plan Forgot Something: Attribution

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 628 words


It is hardly surprising that Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center
for Immigration Studies, would approve of Mike Huckabee's new immigration plan.
Seven of the nine points in the Huckabee plan were copied, in some cases almost
verbatim, from a plan that Krikorian outlined nearly three years ago in the
National Review. Rather than hammer out its own policy on the subject, the
cash-starved Huckabee campaign simply lifted a ready-made one off the shelf.

THE FACTS

Huckabee needed to come up with an immigration plan in a hurry last month. He
was beginning his remarkable ascent in opinion polls, but was under attack from
GOP rivals for a "liberal" position on immigration while governor of Arkansas
from 1996 to 2007. His record in Arkansas, supporting tuition breaks for illegal
immigrants and opposing a federal roundup of undocumented workers, made him
vulnerable to criticism from the right.

When the campaign announced the governor's nine-point immigration plan on Dec.
6, it noted that it was "partially modeled" on Krikorian's proposal three years
earlier. But Huckabee took credit for the plan in the Republican debate on
Thursday night, and Mitt Romney's campaign is crying foul. A Romney "Fact Check"
said that the Huckabee plan had lifted "whole sections of Krikorian's editorial
without quotes or direct attribution."

A point-by-point comparison of the two plans supports the Romney critique.
Huckabee's is virtually identical to Krikorian's, with the exception of two
points: Build the Fence and Establish an Economic Border. Huckabee says that his
proposal for a flat-rate sales tax, known as the "fair tax," would create an
"economic disincentive" for illegal immigration, by forcing undocumented workers
to pay taxes.

Following Krikorian, Huckabee calls for a strategy to deny jobs  to illegal
immigrants, ensure document security, discourage dual citizenship and modernize
legal immigration. He proposes giving illegal immigrants 120 days before they
must leave the country; Krikorian proposes 90 days.

The Huckabee campaign has copied verbatim at least 10 passages of the Krikorian
plan, including the following. (identical words are in italics, and a full list
of copied passages is available at http://www.washingtonpost.com/factchecker):

Â· Those who register and return to their home country will face no penalty if
they later apply to immigrate or visit; those who do not return home will be,
when caught, barred from future re-entry for a period of 10 years.

Â· Employment is the chief draw for most illegal immigrants and denying them
jobs is the centerpiece of an attrition strategy.

Â· Promote better cooperation on enforcement by supporting legislative measures
such as the CLEAR Act, which aims to systematize the relationship between local
law and federal immigration officials.

Krikorian expressed no hard feelings about the copying of his words, noting that
the Huckabee campaign is a shoestring operation, "unlike the Romney campaign."

"That is what think tanks do," he said. "We come up with ideas, and we hope that
someone will steal them."

The Romney campaign had no immediate comment.

THE PINOCCHIO TEST

In Huckabee's defense, it must be noted that his Web site credits Krikorian for
some of his immigration ideas. On Thursday night, the candidate implied that it
was his own plan, rather than a hasty cut-and-paste job. Authors usually put
quotation marks around phrases they copy from other authors. Two Pinocchios for
less than full disclosure.

ONE PINOCCHIO: Some shading of the facts; TWO PINOCCHIOS: Significant omissions
Or exaggerations; THREE PINOCCHIOS: Significant factual errors; FOUR PINOCCHIOS:
Real whoppers; THE GEPPETTO CHECK MARK: Statements and claims contain the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Bill Targets Workers Who Speak No English

BYLINE: Tim Craig; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 906 words


RICHMOND, Jan. 16 -- A Republican state senator from Fairfax County has
introduced a proposal that would allow a boss to fire employees who don't speak
English in the workplace, which would make them ineligible for unemployment
benefits.

Sen. Ken Cuccinelli II said the law is needed because a growing number of
employers in Northern Virginia are frustrated that some immigrants never learn
English, although they said they would when they were hired.

"The point here isn't to be mean; the point is to allow circumstances to give
employers their own ability to hire and fire people who may not speak English,"
Cuccinelli said.

Some Democrats and immigration rights activists said they were outraged at
Cuccinelli, saying the bill demeans the 1 in 10 Virginians who were born outside
the United States. They said Cuccinelli's proposal was aimed at new legal
residents who aren't native English speakers. Illegal immigrants are already
ineligible for unemployment benefits.

"This is the most mean-spirited piece of legislation I have seen in my 30 years
down here," Senate Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) said.

Cuccinelli's bill is one of dozens this year that seek to address immigration
and the growing influence of Hispanic culture in Virginia, including efforts to
make English the state's official language.

Cuccinelli, who was narrowly reelected in November, said the bill is aimed at
people who work in jobs in which they must interact with the public, such as
sales clerks and receptionists.

State and national immigrant rights activists said the bill, as written, could
result in some people being fired for speaking to a colleague during a break or
over the phone to relatives in a language other than English, causing some
critics to wonder whether the measure violates federal law prohibiting
discrimination based on national origin.

"Anyone who cares about employee rights and civil rights and any employer who
cares about not getting sued should question this bill," said Raul Gonzales,
legislative director of the National Council of La Raza, Latino civil rights
group in Washington.

Cuccinelli, who says companies are increasingly hiring people without
face-to-face interviews, said he is just trying to protect employers from paying
higher taxes because of unemployment claims.

In Virginia, employers may fire anyone as long as they adhere to civil rights
laws. But if someone receives unemployment benefits, their previous employer
might have to pay higher taxes.

"It works like an insurance policy," said Coleman Walsh, chief administrative
law judge for the Virginia Employment Commission. "If you don't have any
accidents, your premiums don't go up. If you have accidents, you have to pay
higher rates."

Cuccinelli said he drafted the bill after a business owner approached him last
year and complained that his unemployment taxes rose after he fired someone who
didn't learn English.

"They had an understanding the employee would improve their English
capabilities, and that didn't happen," Cuccinelli said. "We are an at-will
employment state, but there is a question about having to pay more unemployment
insurance."

Terminated employees are ineligible for unemployment benefits if they fail a
drug test, falsify a job application with respect to a criminal record, commit
an act that causes the employer to lose his business license or miss too many
days of work. A claim can also be denied if the employee violates a "reasonable
company law" and has "a pattern of misconduct that shows a willful disregard for
an employer's legitimate business interest," Walsh said.

Gonzales said Cuccinelli's bill is not needed because Equal Opportunity
Commission guidelines give employers the right to terminate employees for their
language skills if their jobs require extensive interaction with the public or a
need to understand basic safety information.

Immigrant rights advocates say Cuccinelli's bill is too broad. It says "an
employee's inability or refusal to speak English at the workplace, in violation
of a known policy of the employer, constitutes misconduct."

Claire Guthrie Gastanaga, a lobbyist for the Virginia Coalition for Latino
Organizations, said the bill would make it too easy to fire someone who is not a
native speaker of English.

"This says, if they are on their break in the backroom, you can tell them they
can't speak Spanish or German or you can fire them and also deny them
unemployment," Gastanaga said.

Angela Kelley, director of the Immigration Policy Center, said Cuccinelli's bill
shows how some Virginia lawmakers want to "take a bite at immigrants at all
levels and hope they go away."

"People lose their language after they've been here a number of years, but it
takes years. It doesn't take days," Kelley said.

Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who last
year pushed through an effort to cut off public services in Prince William for
illegal immigrants, said Cuccinelli is tapping into the mounting public concern
about illegal immigration.

"You hear that frustration a lot, especially up here in Northern Virginia,"
Stewart said. "I do understand the frustration that the general public and
probably employers have with such a large portion of the workforce being unable
or unwilling to learn English."

If people lose their jobs because of his bill, Cuccinelli said, they would just
"have to get another job."

"If they can get one without speaking English," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Gerald Martineau -- The Washington Post; Sen. Ken Cuccinelli
II said his measure aims to protect Virginia employers.
IMAGE; By Robert A. Reeder For The Washington Post; Senate Majority Leader
Richard L. Saslaw called Cuccinelli's bill "mean-spirited."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

High Price, Poor Service;
Despite exorbitant fees, the wait to become a naturalized citizen is three times
as long as it was last year.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 454 words


IN JULY, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services increased naturalization and
visa fees across the board by an average of 66 percent. One fee more than
septupled: the application to change from temporary to permanent residency,
which went from $180 to $1,370. Immigration advocacy groups and other critics
(including us) decried the ghastly expenses immigrants faced. Still, USCIS
pledged that the increases would benefit applicants by allowing the agency to
reduce processing times: from six months to four months for permanent residency
visas, and from seven months to five months for naturalization applications.

Fast-forward to today. As USCIS Director Emilio T. Gonzalez testified at a House
hearing last week, permanent residency applications now take about a year to
process, and naturalization applications take a whopping 18 months. USCIS
attributes this to the surge in applications it received in June and July -- 3
million applications and petitions in the summer of 2007, up from 1.8 million in
the summer of 2006 -- and says it had no way of anticipating the increase. But
USCIS should have known that raising fees so precipitously would have this
effect. After all, any expected fee increase encourages people to apply
immediately. This motivation, coupled with the heated immigration debate and the
corresponding naturalization drives led by advocacy groups, surely led to the
explosion in applications.

USCIS has responded to the new backlog with a plan to hire 1,800 more staffers.
Mr. Gonzalez said this will allow USCIS to reduce wait times for naturalization
and permanent residency visas to six months in 2010. This timeline is
unacceptable: It will prevent hundreds of thousands of applicants who filed for
naturalization in 2007 from participating in the presidential election.

One potential solution, both to this immediate backlog and to the long-term
problems facing USCIS's processing, is to stop requiring that USCIS be
self-supporting. Unlike other government agencies, it receives no regular
appropriations from Congress. Instead, its budget must be covered from funds
generated by user fees. The agency has "no plans" to ask Congress for funding,
according to spokesman Christopher S. Bentley, because USCIS is "comfortable"
with this model, no matter the hardship its high prices may place on its
disproportionately poor clients.

Clearly this model isn't working, and it is contrary to American values. The
United States has a historical mission of welcoming immigrants.  Given the
public (as well as private) good that comes from citizenship,

USCIS should receive annual funding so that it can process applications
expeditiously, carefully and affordably for new Americans and legal residents.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 307 words

Avalanches Kill 3 People In Mountains Near Los Angeles

 LOS ANGELES -- A series of avalanches in the mountains outside of Los Angeles
killed three people after sweeping backcountry slopes in the San Gabriel
Mountains, authorities said Saturday.

Despite the avalanches, about 6,000 people swarmed to the Mount Baldy Ski
Resorts, about 80 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, to ski and snowboard,
resort officials said.

Southern California braced for more weekend storms. Meteorologist Richard
Thompson said that as much as eight inches of rain would fall in the hills
outside Los Angeles.

Immigration Agents Cited ID Plan Before Raid

NEW HAVEN, Conn. -- Local immigration officials e-mailed Immigration and Customs
Enforcement Director Julie L. Myers to advise her that the city had adopted a
program to offer ID cards to illegal immigrants and that a planned raid would
therefore likely draw significant news coverage, newly released documents show.
The June 6 raid took place two days after the city's Board of Aldermen approved
the program. ICE officials have denied that the raid was retaliatory, saying
that it was planned months in advance and that its timing was coincidental.

Las Vegas Casino Still Closed After Fire

LAS VEGAS -- The burned exterior facade along the roof of the Monte Carlo  hotel
and casino will have to be removed or secured before the Las Vegas Strip resort
can reopen, the chief county building inspector said. A spokesman for resort
owner MGM Mirage  said that he could not immediately say how long the repairs
from Friday's blaze would take.

5 Die in Crash at Exclusive Fla. Runway

OCALA, Fla. -- Five men were killed after a car in which they were riding
traveled off an airport runway and crashed at the exclusive "fly-in" community
of Jumbolair Aviation Estates, the Florida Highway Patrol said.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

High Price, Poor Service;
Despite exorbitant fees, the wait to become a naturalized citizen is three times
as long as it was last year.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 454 words


IN JULY, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services increased naturalization and
visa fees across the board by an average of 66 percent. One fee more than
septupled: the application to change from temporary to permanent residency,
which went from $180 to $1,370. Immigration advocacy groups and other critics
(including us) decried the ghastly expenses immigrants faced. Still, USCIS
pledged that the increases would benefit applicants by allowing the agency to
reduce processing times: from six months to four months for permanent residency
visas, and from seven months to five months for naturalization applications.

Fast-forward to today. As USCIS Director Emilio T. Gonzalez testified at a House
hearing this month, permanent residency applications now take about a year to
process, and naturalization applications take a whopping 18 months. USCIS
attributes this to the surge in applications it received in June and July -- 3
million applications and petitions in the summer of 2007, up from 1.8 million in
the summer of 2006 -- and says it had no way of anticipating the increase. But
USCIS should have known that raising fees so precipitously would have this
effect. After all, any expected fee increase encourages people to apply
immediately. This motivation, coupled with the heated immigration debate and the
corresponding naturalization drives led by advocacy groups, surely led to the
explosion in applications.

USCIS has responded to the new backlog with a plan to hire 1,800 more staffers.
Mr. Gonzalez said this will allow USCIS to reduce wait times for naturalization
and permanent residency visas to six months in 2010. This timeline is
unacceptable: It will prevent hundreds of thousands of applicants who filed for
naturalization in 2007 from participating in the presidential election.

One potential solution, both to this immediate backlog and to the long-term
problems facing USCIS's processing, is to stop requiring that USCIS be
self-supporting. Unlike other government agencies, it receives no regular
appropriations from Congress. Instead, its budget must be covered from funds
generated by user fees. The agency has "no plans" to ask Congress for funding,
according to spokesman Christopher S. Bentley, because USCIS is "comfortable"
with this model, no matter the hardship its high prices may place on its
disproportionately poor clients.

Clearly this model isn't working, and it is contrary to American values. The
United States has a historical mission of welcoming immigrants.  Given the
public (as well as private) good that comes from citizenship,

USCIS should receive annual funding so that it can process applications
expeditiously, carefully and affordably for new Americans and legal residents.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 28, 2008 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Second-Class Citizens;
Speak English or prepare to be fired -- without benefits. Sounds loco, Virginia.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 416 words


VIRGINIA SEN. Ken Cuccinelli II (R-Fairfax) has introduced a piece of
immigrant-bashing legislation that is meant to ease the way for bosses to fire
workers who don't speak English. But the bill is so closed-minded and
foul-tempered that it is too much for Mr. Cuccinelli himself. It would victimize
employees who fail "to speak only English at the workplace," a formulation even
the senator now allows is a bit harsh; who knows, maybe his own ancestors were
known to utter a phrase or two in their native Italian on the job. So he has
decided to remove the word "only" from his bill. Nice, but it doesn't help.

The senator, long regarded as among the more intolerant lawmakers in Richmond,
has outdone himself. He says glibly that the bill responds to a growing problem
of employees who are unfit for their jobs because they speak English poorly. The
rub, he says, is that employers cannot fire them without risking higher taxes to
pay unemployment benefits. His evidence? Well, says the senator, an employer
complained to him about it. And who was that employer? Mr. Cuccinelli can't
recall.

The senator's porous memory notwithstanding, his legislation highlights a few
pertinent facts about the immigration debate:

First, xenophobia. Despite their protestations, the anti-immigrant crowd tends
to blur the line between legal and illegal immigrants and tar them with the same
brush. Although Mr. Cuccinelli spent much of his campaign for the state Senate
last fall bashing illegal immigrants, this bill would apply only to legal
immigrants, since illegal immigrants are already ineligible for unemployment
benefits.

Second, overzealousness. Mr. Cuccinelli's bill rates poor English as an offense
on a par with substance abuse, lying about past criminal convictions, missing
work and committing infractions that cost an employer his business license --
all of them equal grounds for denying unemployment benefits to a fired worker.
That's absurd on its face.

Third, blame-shifting. Clearly, it is an employer's responsibility to hire
workers whose skills match the job. Yet Mr. Cuccinelli's bill would perversely
penalize workers, not employers. This is grossly unfair.

Immigrant-bashers, even some who pay homage to America as a nation of
immigrants, have a rich and ugly history in this country. Today, a venomous new
chapter is being written in that history by lawmakers of Mr. Cuccinelli's ilk,
for whom the very presence of people whose language, culture and values are
different is a firing offense.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Final Year's Realities Push Big Ideas Into Background

BYLINE: Peter Baker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1219 words


Gone were the grand dreams of remaking Social Security, immigration law or the
tax code. In their place were modest initiatives, such as hiring preferences for
military spouses. The economic package targeted tax breaks to low- and
middle-class workers. And the foreign policy stressed Middle East peacemaking
and diplomacy with rogue nations.

President Bush took office with so much derision for the outgoing president that
critics defined his attitude toward governing as ABC -- "anything but Clinton."
He would not play "small ball," he declared, nor would he coddle North Korea or
waste time mediating between the Israelis and Arabs. But as he delivered his
final State of the Union address last night, Bush increasingly appeared to be
adopting some of his predecessor's approach.

Turning the corner into his last year in office with the nation already voting
on who might succeed him, Bush is recalibrating what remains possible in a
Congress controlled by the opposition and rethinking the most effective way to
get what he wants on the international front. While aides insist he is not
dwelling on his legacy, the "unfinished business" agenda he outlined seemed
geared toward consolidating past achievements and focusing strategically on
where he can win a few more.

"At some point, you realize you're coming to the end of your time in office, and
you've got to start making a determination what your legacy is going to be,"
said Rep. Michael N. Castle (R-Del.). "And some of the broader, sweeping things
you wanted to do at the beginning simply aren't going to be achieved."

For a president who has always favored boldness, it amounts to a dramatic shift.
Just a year ago, Bush in the same chamber defied the new Democratic majority
with his decision to send more troops to Iraq and challenged lawmakers to
overhaul the immigration system. The past year demonstrated that Congress could
not force him to change course in Iraq, but neither could he bend it to his will
in the domestic arena.

So last night, Bush focused on extending or cementing past initiatives, such as
pumping $30 billion more into his anti-AIDS projects in Africa, reauthorizing
his No Child Left Behind education program, extending $2 billion in aid to other
countries developing clean-energy technology and codifying his policies that
steer more federal funds to religious charities. And he reintroduced ideas that
have gone nowhere in the past, such as banning cloning, providing health-care
tax breaks and making permanent his first-term tax cuts.

His requests were fairly small-bore. He asked for $300 million for scholarships
for inner-city students to attend private schools, proposed allowing troops to
transfer unused education benefits to relatives, and said he will meet with
Canadian and Mexican leaders in New Orleans. On Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid, he challenged Congress, which has rejected his proposals, to come up
with its own ideas.

"By the State of the Union of the eighth year, reality is the guest in the
balcony," said Michael Waldman, Bill Clinton's former chief White House
speechwriter. "For him to aim for big-altitude, swing-for-the-fences moments at
a time when both parties are competing for who could turn the page from his
presidency faster would look silly."

The full-throttle intensity of the presidential campaign framed Bush's speech
and underscored his challenge at this point. The address to Congress came two
days after a Democratic primary in South Carolina and just 10 hours before polls
were to open in Florida. No president has delivered a State of the Union with
the campaign to succeed him so far along.

"He's totally eclipsed," said Elaine Kamarck, who was a senior adviser to former
vice president Al Gore. "Nothing he says is going to be important for anything
that happens in the next 12 months. The speech is a nonevent."

White House officials reject that, of course. Presidential counselor Ed
Gillespie called Bush's final-year agenda "forward-looking" and
"action-oriented." Gillespie and other Bush advisers point to energy legislation
passed at the end of last year and the deal with House Democrats over a $150
billion economic stimulus package last week as evidence of Bush's continued
political capacity.

While he acknowledged that the window for action on Capitol Hill is closing,
Gillespie said he hopes it will remain open until the political conventions this
summer. If anything, he argued, the campaign may act as a magnet for partisan
fervor, allowing room for those back in Washington to sit down and figure out
some issues.  "With the presidential campaign being as heated, maybe I'm naive,
but I think that may be to our benefit," Gillespie said.

Bush  enjoys one other advantage that no predecessor has had in eight decades:
Since neither he nor his vice president is running, he has more freedom to focus
on his agenda. William A. Galston, another Gore adviser, recalled the tension of
Clinton's last year in office. "You have to ask yourself at every stop along the
way -- 'If I do X as president, how is that going to affect the odds that my
administration is going to receive the ultimate vindication, which is my vice
president elected to succeed me?' " Galston said. "And I don't think George Bush
has felt that at all."

As it happens, the campaign has focused attention on the question of
presidential legacies, although as much on Ronald Reagan's and Clinton's as on
Bush's. With Sens. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.)
debating the meaning of Reagan's impact versus her husband's, and Republican
candidates heading to Reagan's library tomorrow to argue about who is more like
the Gipper, Bush often seems left on the sideline. At the same time, some
Republicans said the recent debate highlights how fluid history can be, with
Bush's best hope for validation lying someday in the future.

"Legacies are constantly changing. Historical reputations are constantly
changing," said Frank J. Donatelli, who was White House political director under
Reagan. "If we were talking about Ronald Reagan in 1987, that was Iran-contra.
There was even talk of impeachment. But obviously that isn't the lasting
reputation. What President Bush would hope is that history judges him like Harry
Truman."

At the moment, though, he does bear some resemblance to Clinton. After years of
confrontation with North Korea, Bush made a deal to get Pyongyang to abandon its
nuclear program, a pact that in some ways mirrors Clinton's agreement in the
1990s. After years of eschewing direct involvement in Middle East peace talks,
he has embarked on an intensive personal effort to reach a deal by the end of
his presidency.

Not everyone appreciates the approach. Conservatives have assailed the turnabout
in policy, although some pin the blame on Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
rather than criticizing Bush. "I think the State Department's policies resemble
Clinton's," said John R. Bolton, Bush's former U.N. ambassador. "I think Bush
focuses on Iraq, where his policies are not Clintonian. Too bad there's not more
of him to go around."

Either way, Bush recognizes that time is short and his opportunities to shape
events more limited with each passing day. "I'm on a timetable," he told
reporters during his trip to the Middle East this month. "I've got 12 months."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· A Page One photo caption with a Jan. 29 article on the State of
the Union address misidentified one of the lawmakers shown being greeted by
President Bush. It was Rep. Steve Israel (D-N.Y.), not Rep. Collin Peterson
(D-Minn.).

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Arriving for his
State of the Union address, President Bush greets Reps. Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.),
second from right, and Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), right.
IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward -- The Washington Post; Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
greets Sen. Edward M. Kennedy before the address. Earlier in the day, Kennedy
endorsed Sen. Barack Obama, Clinton's chief rival for the Democratic
presidential nomination.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Blocs Form on Both Sides of Immigration Fight

BYLINE: Lisa Rein; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 675 words


Maryland lawmakers on both sides of the potent immigration issue are forming new
coalitions to push their agendas, emboldened by Gov. Martin O'Malley's rejection
this month of the state's long-standing policy allowing undocumented immigrants
to drive.

Today more than a dozen lawmakers who are newcomers to the United States or the
children or grandchildren of immigrants plan to kick off a New Americans Caucus.
The members, who represent some of the most diverse parts of Montgomery and
Prince George's counties, say they are determined to push back against a
national anti-immigration mood they see seeping into the legislature. They say
they intend to fight bills introduced by conservative Republicans that would
deny services to illegal immigrants. The coalition members argue that the bills
would also unfairly stigmatize legal immigrants.

"We want to make sure we treat people like human beings," said Del. Victor R.
Ramirez (D-Prince George's), who was born in El Salvador. "There's lots of
legislation out there now to create fear and division."

Members of the new caucus are Democrats whose families hail from Pakistan, the
Dominican Republic, the former Soviet Union, Jamaica, Italy, Trinidad and other
countries. The lawmakers' parents worked as garment workers, dental technicians,
greengrocers, journalists and diplomats. The caucus members say they want to
harness that diversity to be a bigger force in Annapolis.

"Maryland politics have generally been black and white, and now we're blending,"
said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), also an El Salvador native. The
legislature officially recognizes only the Legislative Black Caucus and the
women's and veterans' caucuses, but dozens of other informal groups exist, and
the New Americans say they will eventually seek a formal place.

On the other side are conservatives, mostly in the Republican minority, who are
tapping into national voter frustration with illegal immigration. Like their
colleagues in Virginia, who have introduced more than 125 immigration-related
bills, they say illegal immigration requires action. Del. Patrick. L. McDonough
(R-Baltimore County) said yesterday that he plans to organize a Citizens' Rights
and Immigration Caucus next week.

The caucus will reflect the goals of a "citizens' rights" movement that
McDonough said will focus less on those here illegally than on politicians and
policies that offer services to the immigrants. In the absence of federal action
to secure the country's borders, "we're attacking the [state] politicians for
violating federal immigration laws," McDonough said. He cited as a prime example
a Democratic-sponsored measure to award in-state college tuition to children of
illegal immigrants, which enjoyed broad support in the House last year but
stalled in the Senate.

Sen. E.J. Pipkin, an Eastern Shore Republican, has made illegal immigration the
centerpiece of a hotly contested congressional primary race in the 1st District.
He has introduced bills that would deny public benefits to illegal immigrants
and prohibit a district court from releasing undocumented defendants on bail or
their own recognizance.

The Republican bills have little chance of passage because the GOP has so few
assembly members.

At the center of the debate is O'Malley, who two weeks ago rejected a
recommendation from his top transportation officials to comply with a federal
security law by devising two tiers of driver's licenses. One would have
maintained driving privileges for undocumented immigrants, who can get licenses
now.

Publicity about the two-tier plan resulted in a quick reversal by the governor,
who announced that Maryland would require a "lawful presence" of drivers
starting in 2010. The change would need approval from the General Assembly.

The governor's action stunned immigration advocates, who have accused him of
pandering in a national election year. "This is absolutely one of the issues we
are coalescing around," Gutierrez said.

Conservatives, meanwhile, have introduced bills to require a lawful presence
before 2010.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

New Generation Casts Votes on Immigration, Economic Issues

BYLINE: Peter Whoriskey; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 29


It has become a highly stylized ritual: Political candidates drop by the
Versailles restaurant in Little Havana, slurp a cafecito, condemn Fidel Castro
and loudly affirm, "Viva Cuba libre!" Television cameras capture it all.

The Republican primary in Florida this year was no different. Sen. John McCain
(Ariz.), former New York City mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and former Arkansas
governor Mike Huckabee stopped by, and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney
went a step further by donning a guayabera for his appearances in the area.

But as iconic as those moments at the Versailles have become, their symbolism
may have been lost in a presidential election campaign less about the Cuban past
than  this nation's present, with a new generation of Cubans providing the
decisive edge McCain needed against Romney. Cuban voters sided with McCain over
Romney 5 to 1, not because McCain presented himself as the stronger bulwark
against communism but because he was the moderate, pro-immigrant candidate they
wanted.

"There's been a generational shift in Florida's Latino community," said Cecilia
MuÃ±oz, vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, the
nation's largest Latino group. "Cuban children are not from the refugee
experience."

Dario Moreno, a professor at Florida International University and an expert in
Cuban  American politics, said that Cuban  American voters were initially
inclined toward McCain and Giuliani because of their strong stands on national
security and moderate positions on other issues. When the Giuliani campaign
seemed to lag, Cuban  Americans switched to McCain, rolling up big margins for
him.

"It was strategic voting," he said. "It lead to a bandwagon affect. People began
to vote with a probable winner."

Republican candidates did not seem to see it coming. As usual, they strove to
adopt the fiercest anti-Castro rhetoric, even as other issues -- the U.S.
economy, the Iraq war and health care -- were the higher priorities of many
Cuban American voters.

"Cuban Americans are voting on the same issues that other Floridians are voting
on," Moreno said. "There is a lot of middle-class angst."

McCain was aided by the early support of South Florida's three Cuban  American
House members, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Mario and Lincoln  DÃ­az-Balart. McCain
also  received the endorsement of Florida's Republican senator, Mel Martinez,
who is also Cuban American.

On Tuesday, as contemporary Latin music played outside Precinct 418 here, voters
explained that they have heard get-tough-on-Castro promises from Republican
candidates before and those promises have not amounted to much.

"They always come and say 'Viva Cuba libre!' " and 'next year,' " said Jorge
Chao, 51, a dry-cleaning manager who came to Miami from Cuba in 1980. "But it's
been 51 years, and nothing has changed."

"I live here, not in Cuba," said Caridad Calzadilla, 53, a real estate agent.
"The most important issue is the economy."

For Calzadilla and her husband, the top issues are taxes, home insurance and
health coverage.

"I have relatives in Cuba," she said. "But I have to be a little bit selfish. I
have to worry about myself."

About two-thirds of Cuban American voters are registered Republicans, though
that number has been slipping. For years, politicians have courted them by
opposing the Cuban president and promising aggressive bans on trade and travel
to the island nation. In a debate at the University of Miami, the Republican
candidates followed that line.

"The only thing they didn't promise was that the 82nd Airborne would be at the
disposal of the Cuban American community," said Joe Garcia, former director of
the Cuban American National Foundation and now director of NDN's Hispanic
Strategy Center.

After the disputed presidential election in Florida in 2000, many voters
thought that President Bush would recognize the loyalty of the Cuban Americans
in South Florida who helped him win the state.

"Some in the Cuban American community thought we were owed something after
2000," said Allen Zaldivar, 27, a pharmacist whose parents came from Cuba. "But
even since then, nothing has changed."

Under the Bush administration, enforcement of U.S. restrictions on Cuba travel
has increased, and restrictions on travel and on private remittances to Cuba
have been tightened, according to a Congressional Research Service report. But
many Cuban Americans, particularly those most recently arrived,  say that the
trade and travel bans, though aimed at Castro, have hurt others instead.

"It's the people who suffer from the embargo," said Jose Canavaciolo, 31, a
painting contractor who came here from Cuba in 1994. "Castro -- he was fine."

And then there was the immigration issue. Florida did not prove to be the
cauldron of anti-illegal immigrant sentiment that Romney may have thought.
About 58  percent of Republican voters told exit pollsters on Tuesday that
illegal immigrants should either be offered a chance to apply for citizenship or
allowed to stay as temporary workers -- positions roughly in line with McCain's.
And those voters went for McCain by substantial margins. Forty percent said
illegal immigrants should be deported, and that minority went for Romney.

"Every other Republican candidate is poison on that issue," Garcia said. "Most
immigrants realize that the immigration debate is not about immigration. It's
about xenophobia at best and racism at worst."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A Law That Would Be Ripe for Abuse

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 181 words


Regarding the Jan. 17 Metro article "Bill Targets Workers Who Speak No English":

I immigrated to Canada from Shanghai in 1997, and I am now a permanent resident
of the United States. I agree that every immigrant should learn to speak
English. However, Virginia Sen. Ken Cuccinelli II's proposal to allow a boss to
fire employees who don't speak English in the workplace would discriminate
against immigrants by giving employers too much power.

I was 46 when I began learning English. I took English-as-a-second-language
classes to prepare to attend college, and I can now speak, read and write
English, although there are still some words I don't know and I have trouble
understanding some sentences sometimes.

It is difficult to judge how much English is enough for a workplace. There is no
exact criterion. If the law allowed employers to fire employees because of their
language skills, then the law would have a hole in it. It would allow employers
to fire immigrant workers for any reason  by providing the easy excuse that
those workers did not know enough English.

QIYIN LIN

Baltimore

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Bill Aims To Protect Domestic Workers

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ03

LENGTH: 1041 words


Council members George L. Leventhal (D-At Large) and Marc Elrich (D-At Large)
announced legislation this week meant to protect in-home domestic workers who
perform duties such as housekeeping and babysitting.

The measure would require employers of domestic workers who are on the job at
least 20 hours a week to negotiate a written contract. The bill has the backing
of a coalition of labor, religious and immigrant advocacy groups that showed up
in force at a news conference Monday in Rockville.

"We deserve fair wages and just treatment," said Herminia Servat of Casa de
Maryland's Committee of Women Seeking Justice, a leading force behind the
effort.

Noticeably absent from the event were two council members, Duchy Trachtenberg
(D-At Large) and Valerie Ervin (D-Silver Spring), who took up the cause of
domestic workers during the 2006 campaign at a news conference with Casa de
Maryland, an immigrant advocacy group.

After Monday's news conference, Trachtenberg said she would not support the
measure because it could do more harm than good for domestic workers. Signing a
contract, she said, would essentially force employees to discuss their
immigration status, something some undocumented workers might not want to
reveal.

"Why would that be in the best interest of many of these women?" said
Trachtenberg, who instead supports increased funding for education and services.
"Marc and George want to do the right thing, but this gives false promise."

Ervin said she did not sign on as a sponsor because she learned of the measure
only a few days before it was introduced. Ervin said she was surprised to find
out that Leventhal had been working with Casa for several months "without
consulting with colleagues who had already voiced support" for the issue.

"I have a few questions, and it remains to be seen whether I'll be supporting
the measure in this iteration," she said.

Council President Michael Knapp (D-Upcounty) also raised questions about the
measure.

"The intent is in the right place," Knapp said. "The question is how do you
implement it?"

The domestic workers and their advocates attending the announcement said a
written contract that spells out a job description and issues such as sick leave
and vacation time was their top concern. Jessica Salsbury, a Casa attorney,
described a client who was paid $380 each month to work 16-hour days, seen days
a week.

Leventhal apologized for not reaching out sooner to his colleagues.

"I absolutely hoped and expected that Valerie and Duchy would be with us," he
said. "I was under the impression that our staffs were in touch. I know there
have been some hard feelings there. I wish I had made a better effort to reach
out to them."

But he vigorously disagreed with Trachtenberg's characterization of the bill,
saying it would not raise the issue of immigration status. "The only one raising
the question of immigration status right now is Duchy," he said. "What it does
do is state for the first time in writing very basic worker protections."

Name That Tune

Council members got their first crack at County Executive Isiah Leggett's deal
to bring a music club to Silver Spring during a briefing Tuesday on the
agreement with music producer Live Nation. The session was at times testy,
humorous and probing.

Patrick Lacefield, a spokesman for Leggett (D), said the administration was
"very pleased by the council's reaction and we're moving ahead. It seemed like
we found good support."

The administration appeared to have the general backing of council members Duchy
Trachtenberg, Valerie Ervin, Nancy Floreen (D-At Large) and Phil Andrews
(D-Rockville-Gaithersburg), who called it a "moneymaker for the county."

But at least three other members -- Marc Elrich, Roger Berliner
(D-Potomac-Bethesda) and Marilyn Praisner (D-Eastern County) sounded
unconvinced. Elrich and Berliner criticized Leggett for not seeking other
proposals to ensure the best deal for taxpayers before signing on with Live
Nation.

Elrich also questioned the benefit to downtown Silver Spring, accusing the
administration of "hyping the economic benefit of this project," an assertion
county Chief Administrative Officer Timothy Firestine disputed. Firestine also
warned of the risk that the property could remain "vacant for another 13 years"
if the council rejects funding for the project.

The most heated exchange of the afternoon came when Berliner took up the cause
of Seth Hurwitz, the owner of the District's 9:30 club, who lives in Berliner's
district and wanted a shot at running the music club planned for the old J.C.
Penney site on Colesville Road. Berliner and Firestine volleyed back-and-forth
with stern words. "Why would you ignore a prominent member of our community? Why
wouldn't you pick up the phone and say, 'Talk to us. I'm serious,' " Berliner
asked Firestine.

"Why didn't you ask that question when we brought this to you twice before,"
Firestine responded.

To which Berliner replied, "I'm sorry, I'm not negotiating on behalf of the
county executive."

On a lighter note, the discussion also revealed the musical preferences of some
of the council members. Leventhal, who described himself as "on the fence" about
the deal, recalled fondly his days of attending shows at the 9:30 club "when I
was young, single and cute."

Looking on from the front of the hearing room was Bruce H. Lee, president of Lee
Development Group, the Silver Spring company that intends to donate the land for
the project. Seated in the back row was Hurwitz, dressed uncharacteristically in
a coat and tie, with his spokeswoman and two lawyers. After the briefing,
Hurwitz said, "The conclusion today was that there was no process. The question
is, will they go back and correct it?"

In Hurwitz's view, "there is plenty of time to go back and correct this."

Just before the briefing began Leggett got a boost from the real estate
development partnership behind the revitalization of downtown Silver Spring. In
a letter to council members and Montgomery's legislative delegation, developer
Bryant Foulger called Live Nation an "iconic presence" that he said would bring
notoriety to Silver Spring. "Live Nation will add to the wonderful reality that
is Silver Spring," wrote Foulger, principal of Foulger-Pratt Cos. "Let the music
play!"

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Every Edition

The Impact of Immigrant Physicians

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. HE05

LENGTH: 180 words


The foreign-born physician is a familiar figure  these days. The fact that many
of them also received their medical training overseas sometimes raises questions
for patients, Shawn McMahon writes in "Fight for Equality: International Medical
Graduates in the United States":

"What foreign institution, they wonder, has educated the set of eyes that
examines them, the tongue that conveys the critical information, the pair of
hands that will operate on them?"

The 210,000 foreign-educated physicians -- or about a quarter of the nation's
doctors -- who practice here have had to pass American licensing exams and
complete graduate medical education in accredited programs, McMahon writes. He
describes battles immigrant doctors had to fight to overcome institutional
discrimination, including the story of Indian-educated urologist Navin Shah, who
practices in Maryland.

The result, McMahon writes, is a "truly symbiotic" relationship, with immigrant
physicians providing care throughout  America  -- and now parenting much of the
next generation of  doctors.

-- Frances Stead Sellers

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: District-Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 5, 2008 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Every Edition

Breaching Barriers of Culture and Understanding;
Holy Cross Links Immigrants With Health Professionals Who Speak Their Language

BYLINE: Megha Satyanarayana; Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. HE01

LENGTH: 1196 words


Several years ago, shortly after arriving in the United States, Lyubov Belyayeva
suffered a massive heart attack. She had left Russia to be with her daughter in
Silver Spring, and she spoke no English.

In her mid-60s at the time, she'd had high blood pressure but no inkling of a
heart attack. "There is no history of heart disease in my family," she said in
Russian. "I think stress brought on the heart attack."

The American health-care system was a  mystery to Belyayeva. She was used to
no-cost, centralized health care, where seeking second opinions for simple
ailments was acceptable, even expected. What's more, she had no insurance and
needed her daughter to translate the complex information her U.S. doctors
conveyed.

But many of the potential pitfalls in Belyayeva's experience were mitigated by a
program in which health educators, including  foreign-educated doctors, help
recent immigrants.

A few weeks before her heart attack, Belyayeva had sat through a Holy Cross
Hospital  seminar in Russian, in which she had learned how to access health care
and even received information about heart health. She had enrolled in the Silver
Spring hospital's financial assistance program and ended up paying virtually
nothing for her care.

The health education program, she said, may have saved her life.

* * *

Immigrants are the new face of Montgomery County. In a 2003 United States Census
update from the Montgomery County Planning Department, 30 percent of county
homes had a foreign-born head of household or a foreign-born spouse.

This change in the population calls for adjustments in delivering  care, said
internist Irene Dankwa-Mullan, program director of public health services in the
county health department. The concept of going to a doctor for checkups is novel
to many minorities and immigrants, she said.

Dankwa-Mullan's department, along with local hospitals, have therefore created
education programs that focus on minority and immigrant populations. Their goal?
To save costly emergency room admissions.

The program in which Belyayeva participated, the Holy Cross Hospital Ethnic
Health Promotion Program, uses community leaders and laymen to teach prevention
in the immigrants' languages and in the context of their various cultures.
Sometimes the topic is prenatal care or breast health; other times, it's
quitting smoking and heart health. The program started in 2001 and is run by the
hospital's director of community health, Wendy Friar.

Friar is enthusiastic about developing one particular source of help:
foreign-trained doctors who cannot practice medicine in the United States. Who
better to overcome the many challenges immigrants face, Friar thought, than a
doctor who not only speaks the language but understands  the system his
participants come from?

"It popped into my head one day, after hearing stories of doctors working as
nurses' aides, in housekeeping, hotels and restaurants," Friar said. "If I could
get more, I'd bring them on in a second."

* * *

Belyayeva's seminars were taught by Lev Nora, a former internist who fled
Ukraine in 2000. Now in Rockville, he is one of three medical graduates who have
worked with Friar as health educators. The other two, both Latinos, have since
relocated.

Nora, 49, had been the chief of the department of internal disease at the
Municipal Hospital of Odessa. His salary was low, and because the government was
in turmoil, he worried that his position was not stable. "I could lose my job at
any time," he said.

Soon after he and his family arrived in Maryland, Nora  studied for the U.S.
Medical Licensing Exam. The part-written, part-clinical exam was the first step
toward practicing medicine in the United States. He also had to complete
residency training, a multi-year ordeal.

"It was like finishing medical school again," he said.

When Nora's wife had a complicated pregnancy,  he had to abandon the residency
before getting his license. After a chance meeting with Friar, Nora became
involved in the health educator program, which is funded through state and local
grants. Nora sets up shop in community centers, apartment complexes and
sometimes coffeehouses, sharing his new cultural competence with members of the
burgeoning Russian community.

He teaches mostly heart-health and tobacco-cessation programs but discusses
anything with his participants, he said. If they need aid, he helps them with
the paperwork. If they ask, he'll volunteer to go with them to their doctor.

In Russia, Nora explained, it is common to give the family more information
about the patient's status than the patient receives, he said; it protects the
patient's will to live. For immigrants, the American process is confusing, and
misunderstandings occur even in the presence of translators, he said. Some of
his clients have been here for years and have never seen a doctor.

Nora's comments are borne out by Belyayeva's experience. Not only was the new
system a challenge for her, but the hospital was intimidating, with a big
emergency room and an intensive care unit where everything was new and
high-tech, and the doctors asked a barrage of questions. Her daughter was there
to help, but meeting Nora, she said, was a stroke of good fortune -- and a
relief.

Nora estimates that half his participants act on what they've learned in the
seminars, whether it's through lifestyle changes, getting screened for cancer or
forming a doctor-patient relationship.

After a short stint in the intensive care unit, Belyayeva went home. She
controls her blood pressure and cholesterol with medicine, and aside from a
painful dental filling, she said, she feels good.

* * *

Every culture has its own way of interacting with health-care professionals,
said internist Elise Riley, director of the Holy Cross Hospital Health Center at
Montgomery College.

The humble plantain, she said, is a great example of cultural confusion. To
nutritionists advising their West Indies clients to eat more vegetables and
fewer carbohydrates, the starchy, banana-like food is mostly a  taboo. But in
the Caribbean, many consider the plantain a vegetable, so "eat more vegetables"
means "eat more plantains."

And for non-English speakers relying on friends and family members, some of them
children, translation may miss important information from doctors and
pharmacists.

"Being able to communicate directly with patients is so important. We must be
able to communicate in the appropriate language but use the appropriate
terminology, too," Riley said. Immigrant patients often wait until things are
unbearable, she said. Many emergencies are advanced illnesses, such as diabetes,
that could have been well controlled in office visits. Sometimes her patients
don't know their illness is treatable here, because it would not have been at
home.

This is where a health educator like Nora is so valuable, Riley said: He
translates, he understands medical jargon and people trust him. He finds the
right word when a direct translation doesn't exist. He makes life easier for
doctors.

And for patients like Belyayeva, what she learned from Nora about health care in
the United States will help her stay strong as she explores her new home. Â·

Comments: health@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: District-Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 2008



CORRECTION: Â· A Feb. 5 Health article gave the wrong last name for an educator
in Holy Cross Hospital's Ethnic Health Promotion Program. His name is Lev Nevo.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Bill O'leary -- The Washington Post; Lev Nora, formerly an
internist in Ukraine, addresses a group of immigrants from Russia in their
native tongue.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 14, 2008 Friday 12:00 AM EST

The University of Uncertainty;
Va. Children of Illegal Immigrants Lack In-State Status

BYLINE: Susan Kinzie, Washington Post Staff Writer, Post

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1107 words



HIGHLIGHT: When Nelson Lopez applied to Virginia colleges this year, it never
occurred to him that he might not be considered a state resident. After all, he
has lived in the state since he was a baby, holds a voter registration card and
will graduate this spring from an Alexandria high school.


When Nelson Lopez applied to Virginia colleges this year, it never occurred to
him that he might not be considered a state resident. After all, he has lived in
the state since he was a baby, holds a voter registration card and will graduate
this spring from an Alexandria high school.

Then last month, he got an e-mail from the University of Virginia: If he wanted
to be considered an in-state student, he had to prove that his parents are in
this country legally.

Lopez, 18, was born here -- he's a U.S. citizen. But his parents are illegal
immigrants.

In the years since a huge wave of immigrants began pouring into the country,
their U.S.-born children are graduating from high school and finding that
citizenship may not be enough.

Last week, the Virginia state attorney general's office weighed in, saying that
schools must look at parents' legal status, because students are considered
dependent until they are 24 years old. That means the children of parents
without legal residency must be considered for out-of-state admission and
tuition.

The attorney general's memo emphasized that state law allows exceptions on a
case-by-case basis, if students 18 or older can offer convincing evidence that
they should be considered separately from their parents.

That gives students such as Lopez a chance -- and leaves them in limbo.

He says his family, five people squeezed into a two-bedroom apartment, could
never afford out-of-state rates. That's why he applied only to state schools in
Virginia. It's far more difficult for out-of-state students to get into public
universities.

"This is an amazing kid," said Krishna Leyva, director of a mentoring program at
T.C. Williams High School. His neighborhood has gangs and drugs, but he takes
tough classes, copy-edits the school paper and spends many days volunteering
after school, tutoring other students. "He does so many good things, yet he
keeps his [grade-point average] so high. And he was born here -- his dad pays
taxes. I was really shocked."

What to do about illegal immigration has flared up in the presidential campaign,
in state legislative chambers, on street corners. It gets to the heart of how
people define this country, its promise, its opportunities, its loyalties and
its obligations.

"Let's take care of our own people," said Brad Botwin, who runs an advocacy
group called Help Save Maryland and testified recently at a hearing on a
Maryland bill that would extend in-state tuition rates to illegal immigrants who
meet certain residency and tax requirements. It's more competitive than ever to
get into state colleges, he said, and more expensive. "Why would you give
priority to someone who should rightly be arrested and deported?"

But students have the right to a public education through 12th grade in this
country, advocates argue.

"Why in the world would the community seek to prevent further education that's
only going to result in further contribution back to the state, in terms of
workforce capacity, productivity, increased revenue?" asked Dan Hurley of the
American Association of State Colleges and Universities.

It's one of the most contentious issues in higher education, he said. It's been
especially volatile in Virginia.

"It's something that the general public is very sensitive to right now, that
they do not want to provide incentives for continued illegal immigration, and
they don't want to reward illegal behavior," said Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr.
(R-Augusta), sponsor of a bill that would ban in-state tuition for illegal
immigrants but provide exceptions for students who meet a series of tax and
residency criteria.

Immigration law is complex, he said, and often the debate gets hung up on
black-and-white issues when there's a lot of gray in the middle.

That's the trouble, said Bob Templin, president of Northern Virginia Community
College, where the staff deals daily with intricacies of immigration law and
thorny, unexpected situations.

Case in point: What to do about children born in the United States?

This year, the school changed its policy to emphasize that students 18 and older
can make a case to be considered state residents.

"This is an important issue that is only now emerging in the commonwealth, one
that current policies did not anticipate," he said.

"People have children born here who are graduating from high school," he said.
"One of my concerns is that many of these students tend to be reluctant to press
this issue, because they're fearful it will jeopardize their parents. That's
unfortunate, that any young person who has a legitimate claim" might just turn
away.

That's what Luz Jamilla Penarete did. She started school at George Mason
University after graduating from Annandale High School in 2006, but when she
registered for classes, she was shocked to find that the tuition was almost
three times what she had expected. She thought it was a simple mistake -- she
was born in Fairfax and has lived in Virginia all her life. But when she asked
people in the domicile office why she was classified as out-of-state, she said
they told her it was because her mother, a housekeeper and babysitter, is an
illegal immigrant.

Penarete borrowed money, but after a year of classes, she couldn't afford any
more and dropped out to work two jobs. She hopes to re-enroll next fall with the
money she has saved, and with a lot of loans. "I know I'm probably not the only
kid going through this," she said.

School officials did not comment on the specific case, but a spokesman confirmed
that if a U.S. citizen's parents are illegal immigrants, the student would not
qualify for in-state tuition.

Nelson Lopez is worried. He doesn't want to get his father, who works in the
warehouse of a carpet-and-blinds store, in trouble. And he's really scared that
when his adviser challenges the colleges on this point, he might be hurting his
chances of admission -- what applicant wants to pick a fight? He was just going
to accept the situation, maybe get a job and take a bus from his dad's apartment
to classes at a community college, but Leyva was furious.

U-Va. officials said they could not talk about his case specifically. A
spokeswoman pointed out that the school offers generous need-based financial
aid, so low-income students should not have to go to another school because of
the cost.

And Andrea Leeds Armstrong, of the university's committee on Virginia status,
said last week after reading the memo, "I'm glad this decision came down,"
clarifying that students could make their own case separate from their parents.
"Let me just say, I'm really happy to get this advice."

This week, the university asked Lopez to reapply for in-state tuition.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 22, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

For 28 Miles, Virtual Fence To Separate U.S., Mexico

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 192 words


The federal government has approved a "virtual" border fence, a 28-mile stretch
of technology in Arizona that will use radars and surveillance cameras to try to
catch people entering the country illegally.

The Bush administration plans to use some of the technology in other parts of
Arizona and in Texas.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff is scheduled to announce the
approval today.

The 28-mile fence near Tucson was constructed by Boeing, which delivered it late
after some of the technology did not work as expected.

The fence is part of a national plan to secure the U.S.-Mexico border with
physical barriers and technology intended to detect and stop illegal immigrants
on foot and drug smugglers in vehicles. As of Feb. 8, 295 miles of fencing had
been constructed.

The virtual fence includes 98-foot unmanned surveillance towers that are
equipped with an array of sophisticated technology including radar, sensor
devices and cameras capable of distinguishing people from cattle at a distance
of about 10 miles. The cameras are powerful enough to pick up group sizes and
whether people are carrying backpacks that may contain weapons or drugs.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 24, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Letters To the Editor

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ04

LENGTH: 645 words

Arrests Indicate a Trend

 An  article in the Feb. 17 Loudoun Extra, "Crime Numbers Show Advances Among
Setbacks," provided local crime statistics for 2007 but did not examine a
disturbing crime trend that has emerged over the past few weeks: a homicide,
vice crimes and narcotics trafficking that illegal immigrants have been charged
with committing  in Leesburg and Loudoun County.

The article dismisses a fatal shooting on a quiet residential street near
downtown Leesburg last month as "domestic in nature," without mentioning that
the accused, Narciso Landero-Pons, came here illegally from Mexico.

There was also the Feb. 8 arrest in Leesburg of Ismael Antonio-Garcia and Marina
Aguirre-Gonzalez, illegal immigrants from Mexico, as well, on charges of
operating a prostitution ring in Leesburg. Specifically, Garcia has been charged
with recruiting local women for prostitution and driving them to customers he
solicited while running a brothel on Nansemond Street in Leesburg.

And on Feb. 7, illegal immigrant Miguel Andrade was arrested on charges of
trafficking, from South America to Sterling, cocaine disguised as lollipops,
chocolates and toffee.

I suggest that The Washington Post investigate how these immigrants accused of
serious felonies came to our community, whether they possessed criminal records
in the United States or in their native countries, who employed them here and
whether they used fraudulent or stolen identities to obtain jobs and other
benefits. Most important, I hope that The Post will inquire how Landero-Pons, as
a non-citizen, managed to obtain a  firearm.

Frank Holtz

Former chairman

Loudoun County Community Criminal Justice Board

Don't Cut School Funding

 I write this letter as a taxpaying citizen and parent of two young children,
one of whom will attend kindergarten at Little River Elementary School next
school year. I am deeply concerned that our newly elected Board of Supervisors
may adopt County Administrator Kirby M. Bowers's proposal to cut $23 million
from the School Board's proposed fiscal 2009 budget, including a delay in
critical school construction projects.

Our public schools are critical to the success of our economy as our county's
biggest employer. Moreover, new residents often decide to live in Loudoun County
rather than other parts of the D.C. area because of the quality of our public
education system. I know this because I heard it firsthand walking door-to-door
as a Dulles District School Board candidate in the 2007 election. The quality of
our schools and their continuous improvement remain a top priority for many of
our voting and taxpaying citizens.

The school system must be adequately funded to maintain operations.
Additionally, strategic investments are required in education, particularly in
the areas of instruction, classroom technology and facilities/operations
management, to meet changing population demands.

We cannot stop or delay construction simply because some people point to the
fact that we are not growing at the same rate as in previous years. The fact
remains that we are still managing the backlog of growth and crowding in many of
our schools because we did not make the needed investments in previous years.
All one needs to do is attend a school boundary hearing to understand the full
impact of decisions to delay funding for school construction projects.

I want my boys and others like them who are beginning their journey in Loudoun
County public schools to have the opportunity to receive a 21st-century
education to prepare them for the 21st-century workforce. If we are not
preparing our children, then shame on us for our lack of vision and foresight as
parents, teachers, administrators and elected officials. I trust that all of our
newly elected supervisors will do right by our children and fully fund the
School Board's proposed budget.

Kevin J. Turner

South Riding

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

OMG, DHS! ASICs and OTMs!

BYLINE: Al Kamen

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1011 words


The illegal immigration issue seems to have quieted some on the presidential
campaign trail. But Rep. Paul Broun (R-Ga.) tried valiantly to highlight the
problem at a House Homeland Security Committee markup of a bill designed to
protect the country from chemical attack.

"This is a national security problem," Broun told the lawmakers. "I'm told by
people who are involved in helping just monitor the border that roughly 40
percent of the people that are intercepted crossing our border are not
Mexicans."

(Actually, the official stats for FY 2007 show slightly less than 7 percent are
OTMs, or "Other than Mexicans." The ASICs, or "Aliens from Special Interest
Countries" -- most anywhere in the Middle East and a chunk of South Asia --
totaled 297. That's three-hundredths of 1 percent. Still, it's not zero, so
let's continue.)

"Some of these people that are coming across the border are from other Central
and South American countries," Broun said. "But there is quite a large number of
people that are coming across the border that are of Middle Eastern origin as
well as Asian origin. A lot of these are single; they have no families. I don't
think they're coming here to cut our grass or work in our chicken plants. So I
think it is an extremely important issue that we must solve."

Barbour's Old Firm Goes Bipartisan

Veteran Republicans obviously don't anticipate taking the House or Senate any
time soon -- even if the Democrats complete their effort to give the White House
to Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.). So the 16-year-old lobbying firm that used to be
called Barbour Griffith and Rogers -- that's Barbour as in Gov. Haley Barbour
(R-Miss.) -- has hired its first Democrat, Michael Meehan, the former
communications adviser for Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.).

Meehan, most recently chief of staff for Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), will be
president of the firm's new public relations division, BGR Public Relations, and
vice president of the overall firm BGR Holding LLC.

Meehan will literally sit in the office once occupied by Barbour, who co-founded
the firm. "It's the sign of the second coming," the firm's chairman, Ed Rogers,
told our colleague Jeff Birnbaum, referring to the second coming of the
once-all-Republican firm.

There will be more hiring of Democrats at the firm, something it has been
contemplating since Black Tuesday -- a.k.a. Election Day 2006, when Democrats
won control of Congress -- and Meehan will be in charge of the hiring, Rogers
said. Meehan "will build out both the public relations firm and the Democratic
component of BGR."

Get those rÃ©sumÃ©s updated!

Schieffer Can't Stick to His Gun

CBS "Face the Nation" host Bob Schieffer was a natural to play a cowboy at the
media's Gridiron Club dinner on Saturday night. The Texas-born Schieffer had his
own cowboy hat and a "hand-tooled belt I made in high-school leather shop with
my name on it," he said yesterday, proudly noting "I can still wear it," 53
years later.

Schieffer added a leather holster and plastic silver six-gun to the outfit and
said he was getting ready for the finale when word came backstage not to do a
big flourish at the end as if the show were over, because President Bush was
going to come up on the stage and sing.

Then someone, apparently Secret Service, approached and said: "Bob, I'm sorry,
I'm going to have to take the gun." Schieffer protested that the weapon was
plastic, but to no avail. Seems you may be famous, your brother may be a close
Bush pal and twice-appointed ambassador (to Australia and now Japan). But you're
still assumed to be a threat.

And what, in retrospect, of the real guest of honor that evening, New York's
presumptive former governor, Eliot Spitzer (D)?

"He was seated right below the speaker's podium," Schieffer recalled, "and came
up to me and said, 'Bob, how are you?' and I said, 'How are you, Governor?' and
we chatted for a minute."

Reporters have been buzzing about how Spitzer, though already apprised Friday by
the FBI that he had been implicated as love "Client-9," in the court filing,
seemed in great humor as he energetically worked the crowd.

Schieffer recalled running into him again after the show and thanking him for
coming. "He said he had a great time."

As they say, denial is not just a river in Egypt.

The Intimidation Factor

No question but what the Clinton campaign's full-throttle media-bashing effort
has worked magnificently. As far as we know, not one single non-New York
newspaper -- even those far away from New York, where readers had never heard of
Spitzer -- used the most obvious headline for his legal dilemma: "Clinton
Superdelegate Linked to Sex Ring."

Illinois Voters Want Representation?

Republicans were chagrined over the weekend when Democrats captured the Illinois
congressional seat held for 21 years by former GOP House  speaker J. Dennis
Hastert. (Hastert called it quits in November, 10 months after the Democrats
took over the House.) Worse, the Democratic candidate won by a comfortable 52 to
48 margin, in a district President Bush won easily in 2004.

But there's some inkling that Illinois Republicans were a bit rattled even
before Saturday's loss. We got this fundraising letter five days before the
election from Rep. Mark Kirk, whose district includes upscale Winnetka.

"Despite my record of achievement, outside organizations are trying to defeat
me," Kirk wrote. "With their support, my 2006 opponent is back with funding from
big government unions, the trial lawyers and MoveOn.org. These groups want to
represent you in Congress, not me."

Hughes Gets Battle-Ready

Former top White House aide Karen P. Hughes, a veteran of the Texas governor's
office and the Bush inner sanctum and a high-level diplomat with substantial --
if somewhat inauspicious -- foreign affairs experience, looks to be burnishing
her commander-in-chief-on-Day-One credentials. (Isn't everyone?)

Bush yesterday announced he was going to appoint her as a member of the board of
visitors to the United States Military Academy at West Point, for a term that
ends Dec. 30, 2010. (Hughes comes from a military family.)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Pablo Martinez Monsivais -- Associated Press; The president
thinks highly of Karen Hughes. He announced that he will appoint her as a member
of the board of visitors to the United States Military Academy at West Point.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Cameras for Police Cars Are Proposed In Crackdown;
As Costs Mount, County Hopes for U.S. Funding

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW01

LENGTH: 714 words


Rep. Robert J. Wittman (R-Va.) will seek federal money to install cameras in
Prince William County police cars as the county enforces laws directed at
curbing illegal immigration.

The Board of County Supervisors unanimously approved a resolution Tuesday
supporting Wittman's effort as it grapples with how to pay for the high cost of
the crackdown.

Police Chief Charlie T. Deane has requested cameras to protect the county
against allegations of racial profiling. Installing cameras in the county's 270
patrol cars would cost $1.8 million. Wittman, whose district is primarily the
Northern Neck but includes a swath of southeastern Prince William, plans to ask
for 80 percent of the cost.

County Executive Craig S. Gerhart cautioned the board not to count on the money
in the upcoming budget year, which begins July 1.

"None of this is guaranteed," Gerhart said. "All we are doing is asking for it
at this point. We haven't been awarded it."

Monitoring the footage would cost an additional $1.2 million. Supervisors have
unanimously supported the illegal-immigration measures, which direct officers to
check the citizenship status of people suspected of breaking the law, no matter
how minor the crime, if they are suspected of being in the country illegally.

But supervisors are divided over how much to spend on the efforts, which will
cost $6.4 million in the upcoming budget year. Supervisor Martin E. Nohe
(R-Coles) said he doesn't want residents to think the county has solved a budget
problem by supporting Wittman's efforts.

"This doesn't get us off the hook for cameras," Nohe said.

Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who has said the county should not foot
the bill for the cameras, said it is important for Prince William to pursue
federal money.

"We don't know what's going to happen," Stewart said. "None of us know whether
we are going to get the money. It's worth the effort."

The board began budget work sessions Tuesday on Gerhart's proposed $924 million
budget. It is scheduled to vote on the budget April 29.

Several members of the School Board showed up to Tuesday's meeting to express
displeasure with supervisors. The schools' share of the proposed county budget
is $6 million less than expected.

Supervisors have requested a detailed version of the School Board's proposal,
which it has yet to provide.

"We don't know what we are getting from the state yet," said Grant Lattin
(Occoquan), vice chairman of the School Board, noting that the board has not
started its budget process. School representatives said they should be armed
with more information when they officially come before the board April 8.

Since September, school enrollment has dropped by 800 students -- 600 of whom
were students of English for Speakers of Other Languages, Lattin said. That
fluctuating number will make it harder to project enrollment during the next
school year. Some members of the board looked at the number differently.

"It's the first concrete data we have to indicate our crackdown is working,"
Stewart said.

But crowding is still a problem. Supervisor W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville)
is doing his part to help Brentsville High School in his district. He proposed
spending $10,000 of his "discretionary funds" on portable bathrooms at the
school, which the board approved.

Supervisors get $47,500 a year in public money to put into individual
discretionary funds. There are few restrictions on how a supervisor can spend
the money. Members have used it for such expenses as furnishing their offices,
hiring part-time workers, and donating to charities and nonprofit groups.

Unspent money does not have to be returned at the end of the year; it  rolls
over. Covington has $266,000 in his discretionary account.

Although Covington's request was larger than usual, supervisors have been known
to spend large amounts on pet projects. In 2006, when Stewart was supervisor of
the Occoquan District, he allocated $100,000 in discretionary funds to complete
the Old Bridge Road asphalt trail project.

As chairman, Stewart receives $27,500 in discretionary funds, a smaller amount
because he does not represent a district. In October, he used more than $30,000
from his discretionary fund to mail postcards encouraging residents to attend a
board meeting on the illegal-immigration crackdown.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 14, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

The University of Uncertainty;
Va. Children of Illegal Immigrants Lack In-State Status

BYLINE: Susan Kinzie; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1107 words


When Nelson Lopez applied to Virginia colleges this year, it never occurred to
him that he might not be considered a state resident. After all, he has lived in
the state since he was a baby, holds a voter registration card and will graduate
this spring from an Alexandria high school.

Then last month, he got an e-mail from the University of Virginia: If he wanted
to be considered an in-state student, he had to prove that his parents are in
this country legally.

Lopez, 18, was born here -- he's a U.S. citizen. But his parents are illegal
immigrants.

In the years since a huge wave of immigrants began pouring into the country,
their U.S.-born children are graduating from high school and finding that
citizenship may not be enough.

Last week, the Virginia state attorney general's office weighed in, saying that
schools must look at parents' legal status, because students are considered
dependent until they are 24 years old. That means the children of parents
without legal residency must be considered for out-of-state admission and
tuition.

The attorney general's memo emphasized that state law allows exceptions on a
case-by-case basis, if students 18 or older can offer convincing evidence that
they should be considered separately from their parents.

That gives students such as Lopez a chance -- and leaves them in limbo.

He says his family, five people squeezed into a two-bedroom apartment, could
never afford out-of-state rates. That's why he applied only to state schools in
Virginia. It's far more difficult for out-of-state students to get into public
universities.

"This is an amazing kid," said Krishna Leyva, director of a mentoring program at
T.C. Williams High School. His neighborhood has gangs and drugs, but he takes
tough classes, copy-edits the school paper and spends many days volunteering
after school, tutoring other students. "He does so many good things, yet he
keeps his [grade-point average] so high. And he was born here -- his dad pays
taxes. I was really shocked."

What to do about illegal immigration has flared up in the presidential campaign,
in state legislative chambers, on street corners. It gets to the heart of how
people define this country, its promise, its opportunities, its loyalties and
its obligations.

"Let's take care of our own people," said Brad Botwin, who runs an advocacy
group called Help Save Maryland and testified recently at a hearing on a
Maryland bill that would extend in-state tuition rates to illegal immigrants who
meet certain residency and tax requirements. It's more competitive than ever to
get into state colleges, he said, and more expensive. "Why would you give
priority to someone who should rightly be arrested and deported?"

But students have the right to a public education through 12th grade in this
country, advocates argue.

"Why in the world would the community seek to prevent further education that's
only going to result in further contribution back to the state, in terms of
workforce capacity, productivity, increased revenue?" asked Dan Hurley of the
American Association of State Colleges and Universities.

It's one of the most contentious issues in higher education, he said. It's been
especially volatile in Virginia.

"It's something that the general public is very sensitive to right now, that
they do not want to provide incentives for continued illegal immigration, and
they don't want to reward illegal behavior," said Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr.
(R-Augusta), sponsor of a bill that would ban in-state tuition for illegal
immigrants but provide exceptions for students who meet a series of tax and
residency criteria.

Immigration law is complex, he said, and often the debate gets hung up on
black-and-white issues when there's a lot of gray in the middle.

That's the trouble, said Bob Templin, president of Northern Virginia Community
College, where the staff deals daily with intricacies of immigration law and
thorny, unexpected situations.

Case in point: What to do about children born in the United States?

This year, the school changed its policy to emphasize that students 18 and older
can make a case to be considered state residents.

"This is an important issue that is only now emerging in the commonwealth, one
that current policies did not anticipate," he said.

"People have children born here who are graduating from high school," he said.
"One of my concerns is that many of these students tend to be reluctant to press
this issue, because they're fearful it will jeopardize their parents. That's
unfortunate, that any young person who has a legitimate claim" might just turn
away.

That's what Luz Jamilla Penarete did. She started school at George Mason
University after graduating from Annandale High School in 2006, but when she
registered for classes, she was shocked to find that the tuition was almost
three times what she had expected. She thought it was a simple mistake -- she
was born in Fairfax and has lived in Virginia all her life. But when she asked
people in the domicile office why she was classified as out-of-state, she said
they told her it was because her mother, a housekeeper and babysitter, is an
illegal immigrant.

Penarete borrowed money, but after a year of classes, she couldn't afford any
more and dropped out to work two jobs. She hopes to re-enroll next fall with the
money she has saved, and with a lot of loans. "I know I'm probably not the only
kid going through this," she said.

School officials did not comment on the specific case, but a spokesman confirmed
that if a U.S. citizen's parents are illegal immigrants, the student would not
qualify for in-state tuition.

Nelson Lopez is worried. He doesn't want to get his father, who works in the
warehouse of a carpet-and-blinds store, in trouble. And he's really scared that
when his adviser challenges the colleges on this point, he might be hurting his
chances of admission -- what applicant wants to pick a fight? He was just going
to accept the situation, maybe get a job and take a bus from his dad's apartment
to classes at a community college, but Leyva was furious.

U-Va. officials said they could not talk about his case specifically. A
spokeswoman pointed out that the school offers generous need-based financial
aid, so low-income students should not have to go to another school because of
the cost.

And Andrea Leeds Armstrong, of the university's committee on Virginia status,
said last week after reading the memo, "I'm glad this decision came down,"
clarifying that students could make their own case separate from their parents.
"Let me just say, I'm really happy to get this advice."

This week, the university asked Lopez to reapply for in-state tuition.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; Nelson Lopez of
Alexandria was born in this country, but his parents are illegal immigrants, so
the University of Virginia informed him that he is not eligible for in-state
tuition.
IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; High school senior Nelson
Lopez says he can't afford out-of-state rates, so he applied only to state
schools in Virginia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

John S. Gray (I)

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW06

LENGTH: 533 words

John S. Gray (I)

Age:  56

Residence: Lake Ridge.

Education: AA, Nassau Community College; BBA, Hofstra University.

Occupation: Self-employed certified public accountant.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, past president, Lake Ridge HOA board,
1995-2007; board member, Prince William Social Services, Prince William
Educational Foundation, Prince William Regional Chamber of Commerce, Greater
Prince William Community Health Center, Prince William Library Foundation,
Prince William Conservation Alliance; past board member, United Way, Woodbridge
Little League, Prince William Symphony; co-founder, Santa's Old Bridge Parade.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Illegal aliens, how to address deporting under ICE 287, the criminal element of
this population; how to fund in the county budget the constitutional requirement
of educating and assimilating the children of these individuals into our
society; get the federal and state legislatures to address illegal immigration,
such as zoning and housing ordinance revision and to reimburse costs incurred by
county taxpayers to pay for federal/state mandated programs to illegals; to get
our federal legislators to reimburse our taxpayers for the federal failure to
control our borders; fiscal challenges due to real estate tax assessment
decreases and the credit 'crunch.'"

Why should voters elect you?

"As a 20-year Occoquan District resident and with 31 years' experience as a CPA,
I offer reasoned, experienced, mature, responsible and objective solutions to
problems."

Web site:

http://johngrayforsupervisor.com

E-mail address:

john@johngraycpa.com

Michael C. May (R)*

Age:  31

Residence: Lake Ridge.

Education: BA, government, College of William and Mary; JD, George Mason
University School of Law.

Occupation: Lawyer, Albo & Oblon LLP.

Elected offices/civic activities: Occoquan District Supervisor, Prince William
Board of County Supervisors, 2006-present; at-large planning commissioner,
2004-06; Social Services Board, 2003-04; vice chairman, PW Conservation
Alliance; vice chairman and program director, PW Boys and Girls Club Board;
member, Lake Ridge Lions Club; member, PW Regional Chamber of Commerce; member,
2002 road bond committee; member, LOCCA-PELT; Virginia Bar Assn.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Our most urgent problem remains rapid, uncontrolled development. We must do a
better job ensuring that future development mitigates its impacts by providing
adequate infrastructure including school sites, transportation improvements,
parks and open space, and funding for additional public safety personnel. If we
fail to do so, residents will continue to bear the costs of new development
through higher real estate taxes. We can address this in a meaningful way
through new transportation impact fee authority, proffers and the county's new
open space plan. I will use all of these tools to protect and improve our
quality of life."

Why should voters elect you?

"I have the experience, energy and determination to keep making a positive
difference for Prince William County families. I will always put their interests
first."

Web site:

http://www.votemikemay.com

E-mail address:

mike@votemikemay.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Maureen S. Caddigan (R)* Âo

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW06

LENGTH: 225 words

Maureen S. Caddigan (R)* Â·

Age:  67

Residence: Dumfries.

Education: Some college, no degree.

Occupation: Member, Board of County Supervisors.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Board of County Supervisors,
1991-present, vice chairman, 2003-06; member, Prince William School Board,
1983-90, chairman, 1987-90; Virginia Association of Counties, 1992-present;
Virginia Railway Express, 2000-07, chairman, 2005-06; Potomac and Rappahannock
Transportation Commission, 1992-present; member, chamber of commerce;
co-chairman, Base Realignment and Closure Commission, Prince William and
Stafford counties.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"In the Voters Guide during my recent primary election, I listed transportation
as our most urgent problem. Illegal immigration issues have surpassed those
dealing with transportation. Our citizens throughout the county overwhelmingly
want something done concerning the number of undocumented illegals in our
jurisdiction. Legal immigration is not an issue, and I stress that the primary
issue presently before us deals with illegals throughout our community."

Why should voters elect you?

"I have served my community for 23 years. I have never wavered in my
representation of all people, irrespective of political affiliation."

Web site:

http://www.dumfries.com

E-mail address:

mcaddigan@pwcgov.org

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Greg J. Ahlemann (R)

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ28

LENGTH: 681 words

Greg J. Ahlemann (R)

Age:  37

Residence: Leesburg.

Education: Some college, no degree.

Occupation: Former Loudoun Deputy.

Elected offices/civic activities: None given.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"The rising crimes committed by illegal aliens and their involvement in the
rapid growth of violent gangs. This issue has gone unchecked for years. I
believe in using the tools we currently have to deter this activity in Loudoun.
The best program available to law enforcement is through the federal Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE), called 287g. Participation in this program will
allow our deputies to identify illegal aliens who have committed crimes in
Loudoun, for the purpose of deportation. Currently, these individuals are
allowed back on our streets and in our communities."

Why should voters elect you?

"I am the only candidate with a sincere effort to bring ICE (287g) to Loudoun
County to deter crime and gang activity by illegal aliens."

Web site:

http://www.ahlemannforsheriff.com

E-mail address:

info@ahlemannforsheriff.com

Michael E. George (D)

Age:  54

Residence: Broadlands.

Education: BS, political science, State Univ. of New York at Brockport; AA,
police science, Suffolk County Community College.

Occupation: Director of investigative services, Recording Industry Association
of America.

Elected offices/civic activities: Vice president, Mid-Atlantic Regional Gang
Intelligence Network, 1996-99; president, Northern Virginia Regional Criminal
Justice Academy class, 1980; assistant coach, Lower Loudoun Little League;
assistant coach, Lower Loudoun Girls Softball League; volunteer, Park View Band
Aides.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"There are three areas of urgency in Loudoun County at this time. We need to
address the problems associated with illegal immigration, including developing
reasonable solutions that can be accomplished with the resources available. I
want to target gang activity and use zero tolerance with enforcement measures
when dealing with the gang members. And with current trends, we need to increase
our training and information-sharing capabilities with the Department of
Homeland Security in preparation for a major incident within the county."

Why should voters elect you?

"I am the only candidate who has previous experience working in a rapidly
growing community with changing demographics."

Web site:

http://www.georgeforsheriff.com

E-mail address:

georgeforsheriff@aol.com

Steve O. Simpson (I)*

Age:  53

Residence: Airmont.

Education: Police science course work, Northern Virginia Community College, FBI
Academy; Virginia Sheriffs' Institute.

Occupation: Sheriff, Loudoun County.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, American Legion, Loyal Order of Moose,
N.Va. Regional Gang Task Force, Regional Chiefs & Sheriffs Committee, American
Jail Assn., Intl. Assn. of Chiefs of Police, National Sheriffs' Assn. highway
safety committee, Virginia Sheriffs' Assn. board of directors; past president,
Loudoun Deputy Sheriffs' Assn. and N.Va. Criminal Justice Academy board; past
chairman, Council of Governments correction chiefs committee.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Loudoun County has an ever-present gang threat that jeopardizes the safety and
sanctity of our communities. Gangs solicit or force membership of children and
may harm or kill those that choose not to participate. Although most gang
members encountered are legal residents, those that are not pose additional
challenges and require additional time and resources. Successfully combating
this problem requires the combined efforts of local, state and federal
authorities and, most importantly, community involvement. Efforts must include
not only enforcement but also intervention, diversion and awareness education to
be effective."

Why should voters elect you?

"Having served as sheriff for 12 years, faced with homeland security threats,
snipers, gangs and unprecedented growth, my leadership and commitment are
clearly illustrated."

Web site:

http://www.sheriffstevesimpson.com

E-mail address:

gsimp27633@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2007 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Debates in Need of Rescue

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 729 words


During Thursday night's Democratic presidential debate in Las Vegas, New Mexico
Gov. Bill Richardson was given a chance to answer the question about offering
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

Before CNN's Wolf Blitzer turned to him, several of Richardson's rivals had
wrestled with the question that had thrown Sen. Hillary Clinton for a loop in
the previous debate, triggering two weeks of complaints that she was being
dodgy.

Clearly intent on setting that notion to rest, she answered this time with a
monosyllable, "No." Her governor, Eliot Spitzer, had abandoned the plan a day
earlier, so she was joining the retreat.

Instead, it was Sen. Barack Obama who seemed flummoxed. At first, he
acknowledged that he had voted as an Illinois state senator to require
undocumented aliens to "get trained, get a license, get insurance to protect
public safety." But a moment later, confusingly, he said, "I am not proposing
that that's what we do." And finally he said, "Yes."

Former senator John Edwards objected to the question, then said, "No, but . . .
anyone who's on the path to earning American citizenship should be able to have
a driver's license."

Sen. Chris Dodd said: "I think driver's licenses are the wrong thing to be
doing, in terms of attracting people to come here as undocumented."

Rep. Dennis Kucinich objected to the question because "there aren't any illegal
human beings."  After an irrelevant swipe at NAFTA, he ended up agreeing with
Edwards.

Then came Richardson, who said that four years ago, when the legislature sent
him a bill allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, "I signed
it. My law enforcement people said it's a matter of public safety. . . . We
wanted more people to be insured. When we started with this program, 33 percent
of New Mexicans were uninsured. Today, it's 11 percent. Traffic fatalities have
gone down. It's a matter of public safety. States have to act when the federal
government and Congress doesn't act [on comprehensive immigration reform]."

Blitzer then turned to Sen. Joe Biden, whose whole answer, like Clinton's, was
"No."

The transcript notes that this was followed by laughter and applause.

Of course, none of the other candidates was ever asked, "What about the public
safety argument cited by Gov. Richardson?"

That is revealing of the weakness of these debates as tools for helping voters
decide which candidate to support. The TV impresarios are so eager for headlines
they rarely pause to ask the candidates for evidence to support their opinions
or assertions. It is bang-bang, but rarely because-and-here's-proof.

On driver's licenses, Richardson offered such proof, but in another case he did
not. His "solution" to Iraq is to pull out all U.S. troops and contractors
within a year and leave it to "an all-Muslim, all-Arab peacekeeping force, with
some European forces, headed by the U.N."

It's a nice idea, but such a force exists only in Richardson's imagination --
and none is likely to materialize. But he is not called upon to explain.

There are similar, if not worse, examples on the Republican side. This kind of
thing makes these preprimary debates seem an exercise in theatrical
artificiality rather than substance.

Three weeks ago, it was Clinton "stumbling." Last week, she was feisty and
aggressive, flinging her own accusations of mudslinging at Edwards and Obama and
finding inconsistencies in their positions.

In all the sound and fury, several important points were lost. The candidates
circled around -- but never directly engaged -- the question of whether it is
realistic, effective and practical to mandate that every family in the country
obtain health insurance -- and if so, how it would be financed.

As to international policy, we learned along the way that Clinton is more
hard-line than her main rivals, not only on her willingness to keep a
substantial residual force in Iraq but also in her belief that national security
trumps human rights as a priority for American foreign policy. No Jimmy Carter
she.

But the implications of these positions go unexplored, because there's always
another candidate, another topic, another headline clamoring for attention.

I suspect these candidates are better than they have looked, and that they'd
have reasons to give, if they had time to utter them. I know the voters deserve
better. Can't these debates be rescued?

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Ethan Miller -- Getty Images; Gov. Bill Richardson at
Thursday's debate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 265 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 10, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Driver Fees, Illegal Immigration Top Agenda as Legislators Convene

BYLINE: Tim Craig and Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 816 words


RICHMOND, Jan. 9 -- Virginia Gov. Timothy M. Kaine called Wednesday night for a
repeal of the controversial new fees on bad drivers and urged lawmakers to
carefully scrutinize proposals to crack down on illegal immigration and not
succumb to "sound bite" politics.

In his annual State of the Commonwealth address, Kaine (D), who defended the
driver fees last year, said they have not improved highway safety or raised the
revenue intended to pay for transportation projects since  they went into effect
July 1.

"We must continue to look for strategies to promote safety on the road," said
Kaine, who  has been urged by fellow Democrats to end the fees. "The abuser-fee
idea has flunked with voters, and we should acknowledge it and move on."

Many Republicans immediately embraced Kaine's suggestion, which probably will
mean an end to the fees. Thousands of motorists petitioned against them. The
fees, which range from $750 to $3,000, cover the most serious offenses, such as
reckless driving.

The General Assembly convened its 2008 session Wednesday by ushering in a period
of divided control. The Democrats took over the Senate for the first time in a
decade, and Republicans kept their majority in the House. Over the next 60 days,
lawmakers will consider more than 3,000 bills, put together a two-year budget
and try to fix gaps in the mental health system exposed by the April 16 Virginia
Tech tragedy.

Kaine asked for a moment of silence to honor the 32 students and faculty members
killed by a Virginia Tech senior and to recognize the 28 members of the armed
services and three public safety officials who died in the line of duty last
year.

Many Republicans are proposing state laws to curb illegal immigration,  after
locally elected officials in Loudoun and Prince William counties passed such
laws. Kaine stressed that the state has taken steps to enforce laws and that he
will fight proposals that seem mean-spirited.

One in 10 Virginians was born outside the United States, Kaine said, and foreign
companies created 2,000 jobs in the state.

"We cannot afford to let the supercharged political rhetoric unfairly paint a
picture of Virginians as a people who are hostile to new Americans," Kaine said.

Republicans plan to push to prohibit public colleges and universities from
accepting illegal immigrants, even if they attended public high schools and were
brought to the United States at  a young age.

GOP leaders also want city and county jails to check the immigration status of
detainees and punish employers who hire illegal immigrants. Some conservative
Republicans propose going further, with legislation that would prohibit state
and local governments from offering services to people who are in the country
illegally.

"Our package of reforms will make Virginia a more effective partner with the
federal government in the effort to stem the tide of criminal illegal
immigration and to ensure that legal immigrants are rewarded with all the
privileges of citizenship," Del. Terrie Lynne Suit (Virginia Beach) said in the
official GOP response to Kaine's speech.

Kaine, who says immigration is a federal issue, said he will consider proposals,
but he noted that Virginia prohibits someone in the country illegally from
receiving most state and local services. Virginia corrections officials and
police  who come across someone undocumented also notify federal officials, the
governor said.

"Virginia has done much to pick up the slack for broken federal immigration
policy," Kaine said.

"I think the governor is correct when he says the system that the federal
government maintains is broken," Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell (R) said.
"But I think he's wrong to say that there is not more we can do in Virginia and,
in particular, in the area of criminal" illegal immigrants

Kaine, who has just passed the midway point of his four-year term, urged
lawmakers to approve his initiatives, including proposals to boost spending on
mental health, expand access to pre-kindergarten for poor children and close a
loophole that allows unlicensed dealers at gun shows to sell firearms without
performing background checks.

There could be a fight this year over Kaine's proposed $78 billion budget for
the next two years. Because a slump in the housing market has slowed revenue,
Kaine wants to transfer $261 million from the state's reserves.

Sen. Thomas K. Norment Jr. (James City), the newly elected minority leader, said
Republicans would try to make Kaine's proposed budget more fiscally sound and
less reliant on the state's rainy-day fund and on borrowing money.

"The budget you will see in March will surely be very different from the one you
heard about tonight from the governor," Norment said. "And, I promise you, it
will be a superior budget."

Staff writer Sandhya Somashekhar contributed to this report. For the text of
Kaine's speech, go to http://blog.washingtonpost.com/virginiapolitics.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Pool Photo By Bob Brown; Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) urged
lawmakers to avoid "supercharged political rhetoric."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved
