
                               1 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 1, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Baird Case Feeds Anxieties of Immigrants, Employers

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 1030 words


In the week after Zoe E. Baird's nomination for attorney general was scuttled,
immigration lawyers in the area received dozens of calls from anxious clients
who face the same legal predicament she did, an early indication that countless
undocumented workers may face an uncertain future.

Based on the volume of calls and the concerns expressed by employers,
immigration lawyers are predicting that the underground demand for some illegal
workers will decline and that many employers who work for the government will
dismiss their workers during the next few months, avoiding a conflict like the
one Baird had with her Peruvian nanny and chauffeur, which forced her to
withdraw on Jan. 22.

"From the employer's perspective, at least those who are in the public eye, this
is going to have a chilling effect," said Donna C. Becker, an immigration
lawyer, who is secretary for the Hispanic Bar Association of the District of
Columbia.

It is unclear how many undocumented workers have been indirectly affected by the
publicity surrounding the Baird case, although at least one such immigrant in
the Washington area was fired by a wary employer.

Already, owners of nanny agencies are reporting increased solicitations, many
from couples who are searching for a legal child-care alternative. At Latino
community organizations, there also is concern that immigrants who are here
legally will face discrimination or that those who are undocumented and
desperate for jobs will be exploited by unscrupulous employers.

The impact of those developments is difficult to gauge, in part because no one
knows how many undocumented workers hold what are classified as unskilled jobs,
a category that includes nannies, housekeepers, restaurant helpers and
construction workers. Estimates on the number of undocumented immigrants in the
area run as high as 200,000. Women immigrants in particular rely on household
jobs to make a living.

It is unlikely that there will be mass firings of nannies, according to more
than 25 immigration lawyers and other specialists. They said parents' legal
concerns will yield in the face of alternatives: having no child-care provider
or replacing a trustworthy and affordable worker who has bonded with a child
with a stranger who may have impeccable credentials but is probably much more
expensive.

"This is not a greedy, for-profit employer trying to enhance their business, but
[people] trying to keep someone beneficial for their families around," said
David Goren, an immigration lawyer who has about 150 cases involving domestic
workers.

"If every woman who is working in domestic service retires, American women will
die," predicted Sister Manuela Vencela, who once ran employment services at Our
Lady of the Americas Church in Northwest Washington. "They would have to stay at
home, they couldn't go to work, and they would never be able to find someone who
treats their children with the delicacy that a Latino woman does."

Like the Peruvian couple who worked for Baird, many such nannies and
housekeepers have submitted an Alien Employment Certification form with the U.S.
Department of Labor, the first step to becoming a legal resident. A 1990 federal
law limits visas for unskilled workers to 10,000 a year, and with almost 90,000
on the waiting list now, it will be well over a decade before most of those
applicants become legal residents.

The law assumes that the applicant's sponsor is not currently employing the
undocumented immigrant, who technically must remain in his or her country of
origin until the visa is approved. But lawyers said that in almost all
instances, the person is already in United States and is employed, as was the
case with the couple hired by Baird.

The law unintentionally has produced a written record of lawbreaking sponsors
and undocumented workers, an anomaly that immigration lawyers said is just one
indication that the legislation is flawed. Since 1986, when a federal law made
it illegal for employers to hire undocumented workers, more than 42,000
"domestic applications" have been filed with the Labor Department.

That there is such a written record has proved unsettling to sponsors and
undocumented workers, especially because the couple employed by Baird
immediately was targeted for questioning by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service after publicity in the case.

"My fear is that the Department of Labor will take a more active role, or the
INS will force the Department of Labor to take a more active role," said
Antoinette J. Rizzi, an immigration lawyer. "I'm worried about the alien, not in
terms of losing the job, but in terms of being deported."

Labor Department guidelines require inspectors to notify the INS if the
information provided indicates a worker "is employed without authorization or
[is] illegally in the United States." Immigration lawyers said adherence to that
rule appears to be limited to areas with high concentrations of illegal
immigrants -- Texas, for example. Immigration officials in this area say there
are no cases where agents have gone to homes looking for undocumented workers.

INS officials said their primary aim is to go after criminal immigrants and
employers who violate the law, not to pursue isolated cases involving nannies
who are working illegally. But the department does not rule out more specific
enforcement, especially when the undocumented worker is "discovered"
accidentally, as happened in the Baird case.

"If we have the information, we have the opportunity to follow up," said INS
spokesman Richard Kenney. "Whether we do it or not is usually a matter of local
discretion."

The American Immigration Lawyers Association, which has 304 members in the area,
is recommending legislation that would allow workers to be employed while
awaiting visas.

"What [the current law has] done is create a class of indentured servants in
this country," said Jose Pertierra, an immigration lawyer in the District who is
co-chairman of the task force that made the recommendation.

"You have people who are tied to their employers for a number of years. It's a
situation that leads to a tremendous amount of exploitation."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                               2 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 9, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Appeals Court Upholds INS Ruling on Hiring of Illegal Aliens

Daniel B. Moskowitz

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F20

LENGTH: 818 words


When Congress in 1986 for the first time made it unlawful for an employer to
hire illegal aliens,the lawmakers decided to go easy on first offenders but to
have the penalties step up significantly the second time an employer was caught
violating the law.

Last month, for the first time, a court ruled on the applicability of that
approach to a company that hires workers at many different locations. The
business involved in the case, a chain of 155 cafeterias, argued that each
location should be considered separately, and no second-level penalty imposed
until there was a second hiring violation at that site.

The penalty in dispute was actually for the third time the chain had been cited
for having on its payroll workers without necessary papers. The first time was
in 1988 at a cafeteria in Aurora, Colo., the second later that same year in
Kansas City, Mo., and the third in Olathe, Kan.

The company divides hiring authority for nonmanagement employees between the
regional manager and the boss at the individual eatery. The government was
willing to treat Aurora and Kansas City as separate entities because they are in
different regions, but insisted that the Olathe infraction merits a second-level
penalty because that outlet is under the same regional manager as the one in
Kansas City.

The U.S. Court of Appeals in Denver bowed to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service interpretation, saying that the INS's view of the meaning of the law
should prevail as long as it is not "clearly erroneous."

The 1986 immigration law addressed the issue, saying that "distinct, physically
separate subdivisions" of a company would be considered a separate employer if
they hired "without reference to the practices of" another part of the corporate
group.

Ironically, the Oct. 9 opinion in Furr's/Bishop's v. INS points to efforts by
the company to comply with the new immigration law as proof that the individual
cafeterias were not operating on their own. The company conducted a training
course for managers when the law went into effect, adopted a compliance policy
and retained the right to discipline individual cafeteria mangers who ignored
the law's mandate.

Restaurant trade groups had warned the appeals court that if it okayed the
second-tier penalty, food-service chains would just walk away from efforts to
educate managers on the immigration law, hoping to prove that there was no
central authority.

But the INS argues that it is likely that just the opposite will happen: that
with the threat of bigger penalties, top corporate brass will get more involved
in seeing to it that the law is obeyed.

In other cases, courts ruled that:

Individualborrowers cannot sue to enforce the Community Reinvestment Act. That
law tells financial institutions to funnel loans to their own communities. But,
the U.S. District Court in Columbus, Ohio, ruled, Congress meant only that bank
regulators should lean on the institutions to lend locally. It takes so much
expertise to determine whether a potential loan is sound that only the
regulators -- not judges or juries -- can determine if it should be made, Judge
George C. Smith said. Earlier this year, the judges of the U.S. Court of Appeals
in Chicago also indicated that they did not read the law to authorize suits by
private individuals.

Harambee Uhuru School v. Kemp, Sept. 30 Renters of unlicensed property have to
prove they were hurt by the lack of a license to get their rent back. That
holding by the Maryland Court of Appeals is a retreat from a 1986 decision by
the same court, which then said that a landlord "may not retain any benefits
from the unlicensed lease."

The judges of the state's highest court now say they meant that rule to apply
only in the case of property in such bad condition that it would not meet
licensing standards.

Under the newer interpretation, landlords who simply failed to get a license
required by country ordinances won't be made to return all rents. CitaraManis v.
Hallowell, Oct. 14 Thegovernment cannot bring criminal charges under the Clean
Water Act against executives and companies who put their own employees at risk
by the way they treat pollutants. The U.S. Court of Appeals in Boston threw out
a conviction of the owner of a metal finishing company who had been found guilty
of "reckless endangerment" under the act and ordered to serve 26 months in
prison and pay a $ 400,000 fine.

The lack of care with which water with nickel plating wastes and nitric acid was
handled in the Burlington, Mass., plant was "utterly reprehensible," the judges
found. But they said the statute makes it a crime to endanger persons by putting
polluted runoff into a public sewage system; it does not cover those who might
be harmed from the waste before it gets to the sewage system.

U.S. v. Borowski, Oct. 7

Daniel B. Moskowitz writes about legal trends and their impact on business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                               3 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 13, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

Calls to Change Asylum System Gain Urgency

Michael S. Arnold, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A24

LENGTH: 758 words


Recent images of Chinese peasants swimming ashore in New York from a grounded
freighter and revelations of Byzantine human smuggling rings have given new
urgency to calls to overhaul the political asylum process, which critics charge
encourages illegal immigration to the United States.

"The problem has been festering for years, but these Chinese slave ships have
made inaction indefensible," Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), chairman of the
Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and refugee affairs, said in a
statement. "The asylum system has broken down, and it's up to Congress and the
administration to fix it."

An aide said Kennedy plans to introduce soon a bill to broaden immigration
officers' powers, streamline asylum claims and stiffen penalties for smuggling
rings. Three such bills are being considered by a House subcommittee.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and numerous immigration
interest groups also have proposed changes. But while all sides agree that the
current system -- which allows illegal immigrants and asylum applicants to work
in the United States for years until their cases are adjudicated -- is
overburdened and inefficient, they disagree on how to fix it.

INS officials say mandatory detention of immigrants awaiting a hearing would be
a strong deterrent to "frivolous" asylum seekers, who come not to escape
political persecution but to make money.

"The best way is to actually hold the people in detention, and word will get
back," INS spokesman Richard Kinney said. In a test of this policy, more than
200 Chinese rescued from the freighter Golden Venture last week were sent to
facilities in Virginia and Pennsylvania because New York detention centers were
filled.

INS officials said similar detention policies helped to curb illegal immigration
from Central America in the 1980s. But Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, said detention alone is not enough.

"We need a fundamental analysis of whether it's possible for us to have a
full-blown hearing and adjudication for everybody who achieves presence in the
United States," Stein said. "The question is whether or not we're going to
empower the attorney general and her designates to summarily adjudicate and
exclude" immigrants.

A "summary exclusion" policy, which would give immigration officers power to
deport on the spot illegal immigrants caught at U.S. borders, runs the risk of
rejecting bona fide political refugees.

But with the current system mired in administrative quicksand and suspicion
focused on illegal immigrants in such high-profile incidents as the shootings
outside CIA headquarters here Jan. 25 and the World Trade Center bombing Feb.
26, the idea of summary exclusion is increasingly attractive to some advocates
of change.

Others say more money is needed for the INS, which despite its $ 1.5 billion
budget has only 150 asylum officers to handle a backlog of 260,000 cases that is
expected to grow to 300,000 by year's end. Congressional sources said President
Clinton could dip into a never-used $ 35 million immigration emergency fund to
bolster INS enforcement efforts.

"The asylum problem boils down to one big problem: money," said Michael Maggio,
a Washington immigration attorney, who estimated that it costs $ 65 a day,
almost $ 24,000 a year, to detain an illegal immigrant until a deportation
hearing. "If you want to have asylum applications processed promptly, it's like
anything else. You've got to pay somebody to do it."

Compounding the shortcomings, detractors said, is the fact that Clinton has yet
to appoint a single INS official or state an immigration policy despite his
frequent criticism of Republican policy during the presidential campaign.

"The failure to have someone down there [at INS] is certainly evidence of the
lack of attention to the needs of that department and to the needs of the nation
regarding the immigration issue," said Rep. Romano L. Mazzoli (D-Ky.), chairman
of the House Judiciary subcommittee on international law, immigration and
refugees and author of one pending immigration reform bill.

But reformers said the image of the six Chinese who drowned off a Queens beach
in the New York media spotlight has focused attention on illegal immigration and
may force the administration to push quickly for reform.

"There's a lot of interest in a lot of quarters that didn't exist earlier, so
the auguries are better than they have been in some time to accomplish
something," Mazzoli said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                               4 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 19, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Veteran Nominated to Be Chief;
President Orders Crackdown Ordered on Immigrant Smuggling Rings

Michael S. Arnold, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 773 words


President Clinton yesterday nominated Doris M. Meissner as commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and announced stepped-up efforts to end
the "transport in human cargo and traffic in human misery" by cracking down on
organized crime rings that smuggle illegal immigrants into the United States.

Meissner, who served in senior INS positions during the Reagan administration,
has directed immigration and refugee studies at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace since 1986.

In a White House ceremony announcing the nomination, Clinton outlined what he
said was a new administration strategy to combat organized crime syndicates that
INS estimates bring about 100,000 illegal Chinese immigrants to the United
States each year.

Though still in its planning stages, the strategy calls for mandatory detention
of smuggled immigrants, expanded Coast Guard authority to board suspected
smuggling ships on the high seas, overseas intelligence gathering and diplomatic
pressure on immigrants' home countries and nations that register smuggling
ships.

In addition, administration officials said Clinton would propose legislation to
impose penalties of up to 20 years for smugglers, allow prosecution of immigrant
smuggling rings under racketeering laws, and streamline the asylum process to
decide claims in less than a month.

Officials said the administration favors a "summary exclusion" policy -- under
which an asylum officer could decide on the spot whether an immigrant has a
frivolous asylum claim or deserves a hearing -- and would grant immigrants just
one appeal of the decision.

Administration officials said they did not know how much it would cost for extra
staff to expedite asylum claims. The INS, which has a $ 1.5 billion budget, has
a backlog of 260,000 asylum cases. Officials said more details would be
available only after a comprehensive two-week review of immigration policies.

INS several weeks ago instituted a mandatory detention policy for hundreds of
smuggled Chinese. Officials stressed such detention would apply only to
immigrants smuggled by organized crime rings, but they were vague about what
constituted "smuggling" or an "organized" ring. For example, would-be immigrants
who pay individuals to take them across the U.S.-Mexico border would not be
subject to mandatory detention.

Critics have long clamored for reform of an asylum process that allows illegal
immigrants awaiting hearings to work for years and, in many cases, to disappear
in the United States before their claims are decided. Demands for reform have
become increasingly strident in recent weeks, as outlines emerged of an
elaborate smuggling ring that forced Chinese immigrants into indentured
servitude and crime to pay off the cost of their passage to the United States.
Critics also had chided Clinton for his tardiness in appointing INS officials
and enunciating an immigration policy, which they said contributed to the
impression of an agency in disarray.

"This is the first major immigration-related policy statement we've had from the
administration," said Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform (FAIR), which favors sharply restricting immigration. "It shows that from
his initial campaign statements, he's come 180 degrees about-face and that he's
come from an apparently open-arms policy to a pragmatic and realistic policy
appropriate for the modern age."

Lawyer and immigration advocate Rick Swartz, who warned that a hastier asylum
process ran the risk of rejecting bona fide asylum applicants, said, "The devil
and serious legal questions are in the details . . . the key to this plan's
effectiveness may be cooperation from other countries and how much money is
going to be devoted for this purpose."

Meissner's nomination was generally well-received by advocates on both sides of
the immigration debate, who noted it was the first time in many years that
someone with substantial experience in immigration matters was put in charge of
the agency.

"We could do worse," said Stein, head of FAIR. He said Meissner, 51, was "tied
to that [pro-immigration] policy clique" of foundation-supported groups, but she
"showed good management skills in the early 1980s" at the agency, where she for
a time served as acting commissioner.

Cecilia Munoz, an official with the National Council of La Raza, a Latino rights
organization, said that "although we disagree with her in some policy areas, if
anyone's qualified to do the job, Ms. Meissner is. The thing we need most now is
the voice of reason to counter the hysteria [over immigration] and she's it."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                               5 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 14, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

Baird Is Said to Have Hired Illegal Aliens to Care for Child

Michael Isikoff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 403 words


Between 1990 and 1992, Attorney General-designate Zoe E. Baird employed a
Peruvian couple illegally in the United States when she and her husband were
unable to find a U.S. citizen to care for their young son, Clinton transition
officials said last night.

Baird and her husband, Yale Law School professor Paul Gewirtz, did not pay
Social Security taxes on the couple's wages until the last few weeks, when they
made a lump sum payment of between $ 8,000 to $ 10,000 on the advice of
transition lawyers, officials said.

Baird voluntarily disclosed the arrangement to the Senate Judiciary Committee
and to the FBI as part of the bureau's background investigation into her, the
officials said. A government source confirmed last night that the FBI was
inquiring into the matter but stressed that it was doing so as part of the
background check, not a separate criminal investigation.

The disclosure could embarrass Baird, who, as chief of the Justice Department,
would oversee the Immigration and Naturalization Service -- the agency charged
with enforcing immigration laws that forbid employing undocumented foreigners.

Baird's employment of the couple was first reported in today's editions of the
New York Times. Last night, a transition official gave this account of the
arrangement:

In the early summer of 1990, Baird and Gewirtz, who live in New Haven, Conn.,
began looking for a babysitter for their son, who is now 3 1/2. After failing to
find a U.S. citizen by advertising, they hired the Peruvian couple. According to
the transition official, Baird and Gewirtz "consulted with an immigration
lawyer" about the hiring and were advised it was acceptable as long as they
notified the INS and applied to be certified by the Labor Department as
employers.

The transition official said that while Baird was "cognizant" of the
arrangement, all the paperwork and dealings with the government were handled by
Gewirtz. The official said the Peruvian couple had marital difficulties, and the
husband left the employ of Baird and Gewirtz last March. The woman was let go
last November.

The transition official said Baird and Gewirtz did not pay Social Security taxes
because they thought there was no way to do so until the Peruvians received INS
documents. When transition lawyers determined that the taxes could be paid,
Baird and Gewirtz did so. "They weren't trying to avoid taxes," the official
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                               6 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 19, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

She Broke the Law

Patricia King

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 848 words


For a host of personal and professional reasons, I believe that Zoe Baird should
ask President-elect Clinton to withdraw her nomination to be attorney general of
the United States. If she does not do so, I believe she should not be confirmed
by the Senate.

I write as a former Justice Department official, a black citizen, the working
parent of a young child in a two-career family and a Democrat who desperately
wants the Clinton presidency to succeed.

To my mind, Baird's hiring of illegal aliens and her failure to pay Social
Security taxes for them absolutely disqualify her from serving as the nation's
top law-enforcement officer.

The iron demand that our nation respect the Constitution and the laws of the
United States has helped to transform me from a baby born into segregation into
a citizen, able to create a strong career and to make a contribution to our
country. But the work of achieving justice for all Americans is not over, and an
attorney general who broke the law for her own convenience will be at a great
disadvantage in carrying forward that important task.

Having worked in the Department of Justice, I know how important the aura that
emanates from that fifth-floor office at the corner of 10th and Constitution is
to the work carried out in every nook and cranny in that place. That department
has suffered a series of tainted and tawdry attorneys general, and it cannot
fulfill its role in the president-elect's vision led by another tainted leader,
no matter how intelligent, accomplished and well-recommended she may be.

Not only does the attorney general supervise the criminal, civil rights,
anti-trust and tax divisions, she also has to oversee such law-enforcement
agencies as the FBI, the Bureau of Prisons, the Drug Enforcement Administration
and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, to which she has just been
required to pay a fine. Once a backwater of the department, the INS has grown
enormously in importance. The movement of poor populations toward rich economies
has become a huge issue around the globe. The imagination races with visions of
Attorney General Baird's discussions on immigration policy with top career
officials in INS, and it goes through the roof when it pictures her with some of
the tough customers in the Border Patrol.

One wonders how those officials and others in the department will feel taking
instructions from someone who was a good enough lawyer to be paid more than half
a million dollars a year for her services, but broke the law because she claims
she received bad legal advice. When I have legal problems, I can avail myself of
the wide range of legal wisdom to be found along the corridors at the Georgetown
University Law Center. Friends there go to great trouble and expense to obey the
law that Baird and her husband broke. It is hard to imagine that the Yale Law
faculty is both less knowledgeable and less law abiding than that at Georgetown.

And though I don't make nearly as much money as Baird, I do not break the law
with either my husband's and my child-care provider or the woman who comes to
clean once a week, though God knows, obeying the law requires an immense amount
of bookkeeping. The fact that some people do flout this law does not justify
Baird's behavior. If the law is silly or inconvenient, able people like the
Baird-Gewirtz family should work to change it. But hundreds of thousands of
couples in situations similar to Baird's do take the trouble to obey the law.
Her confirmation as attorney general would be an insult to all of us. Moreover,
descended from people who once did domestic work, I know that payment of Social
Security taxes is essential for people with that kind of meager income to ward
off destitution in old age.

I live in the inner city. I see poor black youngsters every day, and though the
odds are stacked against them, I want them to travel the tough road of hard
studying and hard work to respectable citizenship rather than the criminal road
to fast and easy money. I thought that President-elect Clinton wanted that from
them too since he preached endlessly during the campaign about the need for
inner-city responsibility. And during the campaign, people like me argued back
that we were prepared to do what we could to inculcate great responsibility into
the hardest-pressed places in our community, but that there had to be
responsibility in the big offices and the executive suites of this nation as
well. What, pray tell, are we to say to an inner-city teenager if we have a
law-breaking attorney general?

I have been proud to be a part of the work of the Justice Department. In recent
years, as the top office there has been occupied by Edwin Meese and others whose
regard for law and truth demeaned the great honor they had been given, it became
hard for me to look at the building and remember how I used to feel. I thought
President-elect Clinton was about to set that right. With Zoe Baird, he cannot
do it.


The writer, a professor of law at Georgetown, served as deputy assistant
attorney general in 1980 and 1981.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                               7 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 22, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

...And Double Standards

Robert Kuttner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 618 words


The Zoe Baird affair is not mainly about technical violations of immigration and
Social Security laws. It is about social class; it reminds us that the rich
continue to be judged by a kinder and gentler set of standards, even in a
Democratic administration. And it threatens to rain on Bill Clinton's populist
parade.

The official explanations don't wash. Supposedly, Baird and her husband, a
renowned Yale law professor, had relied on "competent legal counsel" to assure
them that hiring two undocumented workers and then not paying their Social
Security taxes was perfectly within the law. Not.

She further claimed that she and her husband had been unable to find suitable
domestic help elsewhere. Perhaps this was because Baird and her husband, who
earned $ 660,345 last year, were paying at a rate of $ 5.97 an hour. It is
amazing how qualified workers emerge from the woodwork when you offer, say $ 10
or $ 12.

As Sen. Joseph Biden, the liberal chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
said indignantly, "There are tens of thousands, millions of Americans out there
who have trouble taking care of their children ... with one-fiftieth of the
income that you and your husband have, who did not violate the law."

But how big a deal is this, really? Most of the elite press seems to think not a
very big deal at all. The Wall Street Journal account quoted a Washington tax
lawyer comparing the offense to smoking marijuana. "If having illegal immigrants
were the standard," according to this expert, "there are very few people who
would be eligible [for high public office]."

In other words, the elite of this country seems to believe that getting good
household help is, you know, so difficult these days that such things as
immigration laws and Social Security taxes really shouldn't get in the way. That
attitude is obnoxious enough if you happen to be an ordinary yuppie couple -- it
is totally unconvincing if you are a Yale law professor and the U.S. attorney
general.

Of course, only a tiny fraction of the American public even enjoys the luxury of
being able to break the law in this fashion, for only a small fraction of it can
afford one personal domestic worker, let alone two. Most working families put
their kids in group day care centers or get relatives to mind them.

Zoe Baird epitomizes the double-edged character of the feminist revolution of
which Hillary Clinton is now the national symbol. At the epicenter of Hillary
Clinton's several circles is the Children's Defense Fund. And a top priority for
that worthy organization is universal child care. But ironically, one of the
main political reasons why socially financed day care has stayed off the
political agenda is that society's richest and most powerful people are doing
fine without it.

One had hoped that the coming of age of feminist legal titans like Hillary
Clinton and Zoe Baird signaled a new agenda of concern for women's issues and
children's issues -- and not just the equal right of women to become yuppie
power-lawyers alongside men. Baird has been a feminist and Democratic Party
activist during her off-hours while pursuing a fast-track corporate career --
such a fast track that she needed two servants to keep up a three-person
household.

During her first day of interrogation by the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen.
Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, that charming anachronism, asked Baird to say
that she "repented" her mistake. If she survives and becomes the first attorney
general to have struggled with day care, she can truly repent by working to
ensure that high-quality child care is available to all American families and
not just to those who can afford to hire household help.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, MARGARET SCOTT

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                               8 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 14, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

America's Homes Hide an Underground Economy;
Many Workers Want to Pay Taxes, but Employers Don't

Howard Schneider, Graciela Sevilla, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1447 words


Maria de la Cruz Gonzalez fled El Salvador to escape civil war, waited two years
to be reunited with her husband and children, and is patiently navigating the
labyrinth of U.S. immigration rules to become permanently legal.

Her message would cause many Americans to drop their W-2s and gawk: She wants to
pay her taxes.

"I have my Social Security card and I know it's a good thing," Gonzalez, 33,
said from the two-bedroom Takoma Park apartment she shares with a husband, three
children and another couple. "If [employers] aren't willing to pay Social
Security and taxes, I won't work for them. I want everything to be good and
legal."

Her resolve comes from experience. She spent four years as a live-in housekeeper
for a D.C. family that insisted on paying cash and, she said, declined to pay
taxes for her. When they ran into "money trouble" and fired her in June 1991,
she said, she lost years of potential retirement benefits.

Gonzalez's frustration was a common theme in recent interviews with legal and
illegal immigrants in the Washington area. As if finding their way through the
immigration maze were not enough, the immigrants said, they must also grapple
with a welter of tax laws and their confusion over this thing called a Social
Security card. Some workers expressed anger at employers who seem eager to take
advantage of the cheap labor but are unwilling to pay basic federal retirement,
medical and unemployment taxes.

Since two of President Clinton's attorney general nominees, Zoe E. Baird and
Kimba M. Wood, were shot down by disclosures that they had hired illegal
immigrants, one of the worst-kept secrets of the urban middle class is now
official: Many violate the law either by hiring illegal immigrants as domestic
help, or by failing to pay required taxes for household help. Because
enforcement of the laws is lax, employers often feel no effect, while their
employees suffer sizable losses that may not be realized for years.

A 35-year-old Reston woman who came from Buenos Aires four years ago said that
she cleans an average of three homes a week and that none of her employers pays
her Social Security taxes.

"I feel it's very unjust what people have done to immigrants," said the woman,
who asked that her name not be used because her visa has expired. "We come here
with hopes of starting a new life. We didn't come to take away their jobs. We
just came to work the jobs they don't want because it's beneath them."

The Reston woman is more fortunate than some. At least she understands the
potential importance of Social Security taxes. All six people interviewed at a
private social services clinic in Baileys Crossroads on Friday did not know that
their Social Security cards are linked to a retirement system. Many immigrants
are issued Social Security numbers for identification purposes, even though they
are here illegally.

"I don't really know what . . .  [the card] is used for," said 20-year-old
Mariela Rivera, a Northern Virginia resident who has a temporary work permit and
came to the clinic seeking a job.

Though federal law imposes fines on employers who hire illegal immigrants, those
who hire them still must pay the required taxes, and there is nothing to prevent
the workers or their employers from doing so. The Internal Revenue Service is
prohibited from sharing tax information with immigration officials.

Widespread violations, though, are largely winked at by federal agencies. Since
1988, when Congress imposed penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service has cited 12,000 employers for
violations. INS officials estimate that fewer than 100 involved domestic help.
Prosecution for tax violations involving household employees also is rare.

Immigrants in this area said they believe the immigration and tax system is
stacked against them. Though a symbiosis has arisen between many working couples
and immigrants -- demand and supply uniting to create an underground market of
affordable labor -- the workers said their side is a veritable purgatory of
rules, waiting and more waiting.

Violating immigration law, they said, is a necessity for unskilled workers who
must wait a decade or more for job-related visas, the "green cards" that let
them stay here permanently. And when it comes to taxes, workers said, the
combination of fear over contact with the government, confusing regulations, low
wages and sometimes intransigent employers makes the situation even worse.

Marta Caicedo, 37, left two daughters behind in Colombia in 1986 to make a home
for them in Silver Spring. From 1987 to 1991, she worked for Soviet diplomats in
the District under what she described as demanding conditions -- routine 11-hour
days cleaning house and caring for a young boy.

Her employers told her they couldn't pay her Social Security taxes until she had
legal residency. So Caicedo said she made the payments herself, including their
share, while her residency application was pending. She continued doing so until
the couple moved to Europe in 1991.

Left without a job or sponsor for her residency application, Caicedo said the
couple's departure was "a terrible blow."

"I cried so many tears," said Caicedo, who has since found another baby-sitting
job and is still paying her own Social Security taxes. "It's been a terrible
life here. They really take advantage of us because we don't speak English."

Emma Torres, a Nicaraguan who lives in Hyattsville, has worked as a housekeeper
in the area for more than 15 years. She said she frequently picks up the entire
Social Security tab rather than haggle with her bosses.

"The majority [of employers] don't pay, not because they don't know, but because
they don't want to," Torres said.

Under federal law, anyone who pays a worker more than $ 50 in a three-month
period is required to report the wages, and pay Social Security, Medicare and
sometimes federal unemployment tax. The Social Security and Medicare taxes
amount to roughly 15 percent of an employee's salary, with the cost split evenly
between the worker and the employer.

Even when employers withhold the proper amount of taxes, workers at a Casa de
Maryland employment office in Takoma Park said they aren't always sure the money
gets to the federal government. A 31-year-old man from Guatemala said he has
gone back to people he's worked for over the course of a year and requested a
W-2 form, only to be told by the employer, "I never heard of this guy."

Maids, babysitters and part-time yard workers are not the only ones stoking the
underground economy.

A landscape engineer in Maryland said numerous trades, including his own, rely
on illegal immigrants to fill gaps in the local labor force. He said that on any
given day, he or others in his field will hire day laborers for unpleasant tasks
such as excavation or heavy lifting that his full-time employees don't like to
do.

The payments are in cash and not reported to tax authorities, he said.

Such transactions are typical for people who stay on the same job only a few
days at a time. The recent controversy over domestic workers, however, has shown
that such transactions also occur for many full-time employees who stay years
with the same family, and those workers stand to lose substantial benefits when
taxes go unpaid.

"They are getting -- how should we say it -- economically disadvantaged" by
employers who won't share the tax burden, said Jeff Gold, the founder of
Community Tax Aid Inc., a nonprofit group that helps low-income residents, legal
or not, fill out their tax returns.

Gold said domestic workers often show up at the clinics throughout the
Washington area with little idea of their rights or their employer's
obligations. After learning more, they sometimes choose to pay the taxes owed by
their employers themselves.

Those who approach their bosses do so gently, fearing repercussions.

A 36-year-old District woman who came from Trinidad five years ago said that in
light of the recent controversy, she is planning to approach the lawyer who
hired her four months ago to care for his aging mother. The lawyer hasn't paid
any taxes for her, she said, and she wants to ask him to comply fully with the
tax laws.

The woman, who is undocumented and asked not to be identified, said she wants to
shoulder her full share of the tax burden and participate fully in the country's
life.

"I am active in the community," she said. "I give of myself. I am 100 percent
Trinidadian, but I believe in this country . . .  and I am not going to alienate
myself.  . . .  It extends to paying taxes."

Staff Writer Carlos Sanchez contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT TAX RULES; CHART; PHOTO, LUCIAN PERKINS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                               9 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 28, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

Clinton Escalates Fight on Illegal Immigration

Ann Devroy, Michael S. Arnold, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 925 words


President Clinton, surrounded by a bipartisan group of lawmakers whose states
are struggling with illegal immigration, yesterday asked a receptive Congress
for an additional $ 172.5 million and stronger law enforcement tools to fight
illegal immigration.

"We cannot and will not surrender our border to those who wish to exploit our
history of compassion and justice," said Clinton, flanked by Vice President Gore
and Attorney General Janet Reno, as he outlined the legislative details of
proposals first announced in June. The plan was devised by a 12-agency task
force directed by Gore, working with Congress.

The key elements of the administration's bill include "expedited exclusion"
hearings for immigrants claiming asylum as well as stiffer penalties for
immigrant smugglers and prosecution of smugglers under racketeering laws. The
plan also would provide for more asylum officers and up to 600 additional Border
Patrol guards, and would improve the State Department's ability to identify
potentially dangerous immigrants overseas to keep them from entering the
country.

The expedited exclusion hearings would amount to a new preliminary screening of
aliens at entry points into the United States, with a full hearing granted only
to applicants who prove they have a "credible fear" of persecution in their home
countries. The exclusion rules would apply to the 15,000 refugees a year who
request asylum when they are caught entering the country illegally. But they
would not affect the estimated 300,000 immigrants who enter undetected each
year, or the nearly 100,000 who apply for asylum without having been
apprehended.

The accelerated process is designed to take no more than five days, compared to
the average 18 months a preliminary asylum hearing now takes, and was
immediately denounced by civil liberties groups that said it may infringe
immigrants' rights.

Congressional reaction generally was more positive. Aides said that Sens. Edward
M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) are negotiating in hope of
introducing the bill jointly. Rep. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), who has
cosponsored a more far-reaching bill with Reps. Romano L. Mazzoli (D-Ky.) and
Bill McCollum (R-Fla.), said the proposal "achieves a good balance between
toughness and fairness." Mazzoli, chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on
international law, immigration and refugees, spoke favorably of the bill but
said he might move to amend it slightly.

Clinton's tough posture against illegal immigration represents a shift from his
campaign, when he criticized restrictive GOP immigration policies and emphasized
the nation's immigrant tradition. What has prompted the new effort, aides said,
has been the highly publicized arrival of hundreds of Chinese migrants in the
United States through organized smuggling rings and the links of an immigrant
sheik and others of questionable immigration status to the World Trade Center
bombing.

"To treat terrorists and smugglers as immigrants dishonors the tradition of the
immigrants who have made our nation great," Clinton said. "We must say no to
illegal immigration so we can continue to say yes to legal immigration."

But immigration advocates said it may be impossible to just say no to illegal
migrants while still protecting bona fide refugees, and some members of Congress
said they were wary of the plan. "We want to be absolutely certain that we do
not compromise fair consideration of asylum requests for legitimate political
refugees," said Rep. Jose E. Serrano (D-N.Y.), chairman of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus.

By allowing an asylum officer to decide on the spot whether applicants deserve
full-fledged hearings -- and by replacing several layers of judicial review with
a single appeal to another immigration official -- the proposal would hurt
refugees wary of talking to government officials just hours after arriving in
the United States, critics assert.

"The persons most hurt by this bill are those who are fleeing persecution. These
are people who survived because they didn't share their confidences," said Carol
Wolchok, director of the American Bar Association's Center for Immigration Law
and Representation. "It's really a roulette as to whether you get an officer who
listens to what you have to say and will give you an opportunity to go forward
to prove your claim."

Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants'
Rights Project, agreed. Eliminating court appeals in order to speed up exclusion
hearings "creates a veil of secrecy" around the Immigration and Naturalization
Service that "just invites . . . arbitrary and discriminatory applications," he
said.

"This is not a system that's designed to make adequate decisions in a situation
of life or death," Guttentag added. "The proposal is a badly misguided response
by the president and some in Congress that panders to America's most primitive
fears about immigration."

A Gallup Poll in July found that 69 percent of respondents favored reducing
immigration, which Gallup called its highest such finding since World War II.

Civil liberties groups said they will lobby Congress for amendments to the bill
to reduce the standard of proof and allow judicial review of asylum decisions.

"The question shouldn't be can America wash its hands of these refugees, but can
we offer a true refugee protection," said Warren Leiden, executive director of
the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "I don't think America has to
choose between efficiency and fairness."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              10 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 30, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Addressing Asylum Abuses

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A20

LENGTH: 420 words


THE CLINTON administration demonstrated on Tuesday that it is serious about
curbing immigration abuses. In its new proposals, more money is requested for
border enforcement and better computers and communications systems in embassies
abroad. Stiffer penalties are proposed for smuggling illegal aliens into this
country. And a modest first step is suggested for dealing with escalating abuse
of asylum procedures -- a matter dramatized by the presence in this country of
the alleged CIA shooter and World Trade Center bombers.

The United States was founded on a belief that people escaping persecution
because of race, religion and political views deserve refuge. That element of
compassion must be preserved. But in recent years American policies offering
generous asylum and unlimited judicial review of rejections have been badly
abused. Along with those who legitimately seek asylum have come tens of
thousands of others who ought to be applying for ordinary immigration visas but
who choose instead the far easier route of political asylum. A few who have
entered or have been allowed to remain here pending appeals, it is now claimed,
turn out to be terrorists. By the end of the year, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service says, there will be 300,000 aliens in this country
awaiting a judicial determination of asylum claims, a process that can take
years. Most are free to work and travel, and few will be found or deported if
they lose their appeals.

The administration's proposal concentrates on people who arrive in the United
States without documents or with clearly fraudulent papers. This group -- about
15,000 out of an estimated 135,000 who will seek asylum this year -- will be
detained, and their cases will be adjudicated speedily. The others, including
the vast majority who enter legally on tourist or student visas and then claim
political asylum when those visas run out, remain a problem. The White House
promises to make proposals for dealing with these cases by Sept. 30. There will
also be a major effort, financed by a doubling of the adjudication budget, to
deal with the backlog.

These steps are welcome for recognizing a substantial problem and because a
failure to act would have left the field to those who favor more repressive
measures. It is no easy task to reconcile this country's welcoming tradition
with the need to enforce current law and to accommodate the needs of legal
immigrants, not to mention illegal ones. President Clinton has made a good
beginning.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              11 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 1, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

China Helping Stem Flow of Illegal Immigrants;
Beijing's Publicity on Harsh U.S. Consequences Appears to Slow Smuggling
Activity

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 926 words


The tidal wave of illegal Chinese immigration that seemed poised to hit the
United States last summer -- symbolized by the grounding of the Golden Venture
on a Queens beach in June -- has all but vanished from U.S. shores.

Officials from several agencies say tougher measures by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the FBI's arrests of smugglers and the surprising
cooperation of the Chinese government and other nations appear to have resulted,
at least temporarily, in halting the flow.

The Coast Guard, which has been making aerial sweeps up and down U.S. coasts
almost daily, is "not finding anything," a Coast Guard official said. "We get a
lot of intelligence pieces . . . a tip about a boat here or there," the official
said, and more surveillance craft are dispatched to the supposed sites, "but
nothing is found."

Secret meetings in recent months between U.S. officials and their counterparts
in Beijing over both illegal immigration and drug trafficking have led to
intense pressure in China on the smugglers, generally located in Fujian Province
across from Taiwan.

Immigration officials estimate that in the last few years, Asian criminal
syndicates annually have brought as many as 100,000 Asians -- most of them by
boat -- to the United States.

While the Chinese government has not jailed returned aliens, one U.S. official
said, it has jailed a number of smuggling ringleaders and has publicized the
problems facing immigrants upon arrival in the United States: years of servitude
to pay off as much as $ 30,000 demanded by the smugglers and torture, or even
death, for those who do not pay.

Chinese officials have intercepted ships, organized "anti-illegal immigration
work teams" and put up government posters -- spotted by U.S. officials in China
-- warning Chinese of the dangers of the voyage and encouraging them not to go.

Beijing also has agreed to air television programs, made by the U.S. Information
Agency and translated into Chinese, that show recent Chinese arrivals being
jailed. The programs warn that jail awaits anyone who tries to come here
illegally.

After the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, the United States stopped deporting
illegal Chinese immigrants and began issuing work permits to those seeking
asylum. More recently, however, Washington has been jailing more illegal Chinese
immigrants. Of the 2,500 people seized from 11 ships since January, 1,400 are in
detention. Many are ready for deportation, and the Chinese government has agreed
to take them back. None has been deported yet, but one official said, "It will
happen. . . . The modalities have been worked out."

China is cooperating to curb illegal immigration, according to a U.S. official,
because Chinese laws are being broken by the smugglers and the exodus "makes
China look bad." China's attitude on immigration, one official said, may be "the
one bright spot" in the standoffs between Washington and Beijing over arms
sales, human rights and other issues.

Taiwan, where most of the smuggling ships and many of the smugglers originate,
also has been cooperative, U.S. officials said. Taiwan has paid for the
repatriation to the mainland of Chinese caught trying to enter the United States
illegally from Taiwanese-flagged vessels.

"We told them [and other officials in Asia] that if they want to be considered
respectable people in the world, they have to show respectable behavior," one
official said.

Taiwan has another practical reason for cooperating: It has its own alien
smuggling problem with the mainland and sends back to China thousands of illegal
immigrants each year.

No U.S. official, whether from the Coast Guard, the State Department or the INS,
would predict that Chinese will not continue to try to enter the United States
as long as China remains impoverished and opportunities and relatives are here.

The relative quiet now simply may be a period during which the smugglers are
adjusting their operations to meet the new obstacles confronting them, several
officials said. "It's hard to control all the frontiers," one said.

But State Department and INS officials have been working with officials from
Mexico, Guatemala and other Central American countries to try to make it more
difficult for Chinese and others to use those countries as drop-off points for
eventual entry into the United States.

The latest round of diplomatic efforts came in July after a series of diplomatic
missteps involving three Chinese ships and 659 immigrants off the coast of
Mexico. U.S. and Mexican officials resolved the situation, with Vice President
Gore talking directly with Mexican officials and with Mexican President Carlos
Salinas de Gortari to arrange for the Chinese to be repatriated and the
smugglers and crew members to be imprisoned.

Mexico has been "very cooperative" since then, a senior U.S. official said, in
part because it has similar immigration problems on its southern border with
Guatemala and many immigrants, including Chinese, end up staying in Mexico.

Some officials, more inclined to law enforcement solutions, say the diplomatic
efforts, while necessary, are less important than detaining and deporting
illegal immigrants. Those officials also doubt the sincerity of China's recent
efforts.

"This is a C.O.D. business [to the smugglers]," one enforcement official said.
If the would-be immigrants are imprisoned or detained, the smugglers cannot
collect. But the smugglers are likely to continue their efforts, the official
said: "There's too much money in it [for them] not to."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              12 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 30, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

Florida Plans to Sue U.S. Over Illegal Immigrants

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1125 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 29, 1993


Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles (D) said today that he will sue the federal
government to recover millions of dollars spent on social services for illegal
immigrants, joining a chorus of complaints from other states burdened by a
growing wave of immigration.

Chiles instructed state Attorney General Robert Butterworth on Tuesday to sue
both the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), for failing to enforce
immigration laws, and the federal government, for not reimbursing Florida for
health, education and welfare benefits given to illegal immigrants.

Chiles's action follows recent criticism by him and the governors of California,
Texas and Illinois about the federal government's failure to help defray the
costs of illegal immigration or to stem the tide of new arrivals from Mexico,
the Caribbean and other Latin and South American countries.

Governors have long regarded their obligation to provide Medicaid, education and
other services to undocumented immigrants as one of the scores of unfunded
federal mandates that they say cost state and local governments billions of
dollars a year and are helping to wreck state budgets.

Spokesmen for Chiles said Florida taxpayers spent at least $ 739 million last
year on illegal immigrants. The governor said these costs range from the salary
of a police officer on a beat to the $ 200 million that Dade County (Miami)
spends to teach English as a second language.

The Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy study group in Washington,
estimates that public assistance, education and "criminal justice" services,
including incarceration, provided to the 3.3 million illegal immigrants
nationwide cost federal and local governments $ 7.7 billion last year. The
foundation calculates that these immigrants contributed $ 1.2 billion in taxes.
The foundation said education, at $ 3.9 billion last year, is the most expensive
service, followed by public-assistance costs of $ 2 billion.

Pro-immigration analysts, however, counter that many new arrivals quickly become
productive citizens and taxpayers, eventually bolstering the economy.

Chiles's impending suit comes amid renewed concern in Florida about a huge
influx of Haitians and Cubans, driven here by deteriorating political and
economic conditions in their island nations.

State government officials and taxpayers have voiced concern that illegal
immigration is eroding the quality of life by overwhelming schools, hospitals
and other social services.

Chiles, governor of a state becoming increasingly Hispanic, referred to the
immigrants in his letter to Butterworth as "illegal aliens," a term offensive to
many in South Florida's politically influential immigrant community. He also
asserts that INS makes no effort to deport them and noted that Cubans are
granted almost automatic asylum because of long U.S. hostility to the government
of President Fidel Castro.

In a pointed reference to the growing number of Cuban immigrants arriving almost
daily in South Florida aboard rafts and commandeered boats, Chiles wrote, "If
the United States government chooses to selectively enforce the law, it has a
corresponding obligation to incur the costs associated with this selective
enforcement."

The lawsuit is expected to be filed here next month, authorities said. Copies of
Chiles's letter were forwarded to President Clinton and Attorney General Janet
Reno.

The INS apprehends about 1.25 million illegal immigrants annually. Most are
Mexicans, and many are repeat offenders, crossing the long, porous border to
seek work. INS spokesmen said they have no idea how many illegal immigrants stay
in the United States.

"The people of Florida should not be compelled to subsidize the entry of illegal
aliens into the United States, nor should they tolerate continued failure of the
United States government to carry out its duty under the law," Chiles wrote
Butterworth in the letter made public Tuesday.

INS officials noted that courts in the 1980s dismissed two similar lawsuits
dealing with costs of illegal immigrants. California sued the federal government
for reimbursement of medical costs for illegal immigrants, and New York sought
to have the federal government bear the cost of incarcerating immigrants, they
said.

In California, home to 52 percent of the nation's illegal immigrants, Gov. Pete
Wilson (R) has been an outspoken critic of the federal government's failure to
meet commitments to reimburse states for services provided legal and illegal
immigrants.

But, a spokesman said today, Wilson has sought to work through normal channels
in seeking additional funds from the Clinton administration, although Wilson is
aware that Chiles authorized a lawsuit.

A spokesman for Wilson estimated that illegal immigrants and their children cost
California $ 3 billion a year, of which the state must pay $ 1.7 billion and
local governments the rest, even as recession ravages the state.

Last January, Wilson asked Clinton for $ 1.4 billion in federal funds, and in
March, federal budget director Leon E. Panetta indicated that the administration
hoped to provide California with at least $ 1 billion to help with education,
medical care and other services for legal and illegal immigrants.

However, the state received only $ 324 million, which H. D. Palmer, assistant
director of the state Finance Department, described as "disappointing."

With illegal immigration rapidly becoming a major issue in California politics,
in August Wilson issued an open letter to Clinton seeking to end what the
governor called "the insanity" of providing incentives for illegal immigration
in the form of education and social services.

Besides urging adoption of a constitutional amendment to deny citizenship to
children born in the United States to illegal immigrants, he asked Congress to
repeal federal mandates that make states responsible for services to illegal
immigrants.

"We acknowledge there are severe problems in Florida and elsewhere," said
Richard Kenney, an INS spokesman in Washington. "The governor [Chiles] doesn't
accuse us of not trying to solve the problems. . . . But we don't have enough
resources."

Chiles and other governors have sought to have the federal government release
about $ 35 million in emergency funds appropriated by Congress in 1990. Under
that plan, as much as $ 20 million would be available for one locality, but the
president first must declare an "immigration emergency."

"I don't think any of the money has ever been released," Kenney said. "What's an
emergency? That's the sticking point. Because we have overcrowded schools -- is
that an emergency?"

Staff writers William Claiborne in Washington and William Hamilton in Los
Angeles contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GOV. LAWTON CHILES.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              13 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     January 3, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Immigration -- Who Will Pay?

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 442 words


LIKE MANY of his colleagues, Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida is feeling the fiscal
pressures caused by the large numbers of illegal aliens who have come to his
state since 1980. He is suing the U.S. government to secure strict enforcement
of immigration laws and reimbursement for services rendered to these aliens. His
plight is real, but it won't be solved even if the entire federal kitty of $ 35
million created to deal with immigration emergencies is made available to
Florida. The federal government must not only accept more financial
responsibility but must also review its immigration laws.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that six states -- Florida,
California, Texas, Illinois, New York and New Jersey -- receive the largest
share of immigrants. Of the 4 million or so who are here illegally, California
has about half. The states must educate all residents without regard to legal
status, and they must provide emergency medical services and other benefits.
California Gov. Pete Wilson estimates that these obligations cost taxpayers in
his state $ 2.3 billion a year. Gov. Chiles says Florida spends $ 739 million.
This burden is magnified by two factors: The United States is now admitting a
record number of legal immigrants and refugees who have special needs and who
also tend to settle in the same states. And the prolonged recession has depleted
state revenues and increased the demand for general social services.

Washington should provide more help to the impacted states, particularly for
education, where the need to deal with many languages and cultures makes special
help both imperative and expensive. But simple law enforcement -- especially in
the case of Florida, where Caribbean and Central American aliens predominate --
won't solve the problem. The patchwork of laws on the books makes it nearly
impossible to deport many of the immigrants. Cubans, for example, are
automatically granted political asylum. Salvadorans are the beneficiaries of one
act of Congress and two successive presidential orders that spare them
deportation, at least temporarily. Nicaraguans are protected by a still-standing
order of former attorney general Edwin Meese. Others who make it to Miami can
immediately ask for asylum and walk out the door. Failure to turn up for a
hearing carries no sanction.

The United States must continue to welcome legal immigrants and provide refuge
for the oppressed. But until Congress and the executive branch review the
existing, outdated rules that exacerbate the situation some states face, there
is little chance that Gov. Chiles and his colleagues will find early relief.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              14 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 21, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Coming Home to Roost

Tim Everett

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


As an attorney working with a legal service provider that has served more than
15,000 Salvadoran clients in its 12 years of operation, I have seen time and
again the reasons so many Salvadorans come to this country. They are set forth
in the applications for asylum, and anyone who reads them will find that they
make any discussion of illegal immigration a lot more complicated than good
"legals" and bad "illegals."

The Salvadoran community in the United States is a child of conflict. Most
Salvadorans came here because of the civil war that raged through their country
and that continues to smolder beneath the ashes of economic and societal ruin.

Before the war, the number of Salvadorans in the United States was small --
fewer than 100,000 in 1980. In the next 10 years, between 500,000 and 1 million
Salvadorans fled to the United States. With the recent peace accord, the number
of migrants to the United States has begun dropping back.

For most of these war refugees, there has been no refugee assistance and no
official recognition of their plight. Unfortunately, this meant the only way
most Salvadorans could come here was illegally, with or without the use of a
"coyote" -- a paid smuggler. Few were granted visas for travel to the United
States, and even fewer have been recognized as refugees by the U.S. Embassy in
El Salvador.

The rate of asylum grants for Salvadorans during the '80s and early '90s was
dismal -- around 2.1 percent; the rate for refugee admissions was even lower.
Most Salvadorans became convinced that asylum applications were in vain and
sought instead to survive in an illegal underground rather than risk possible
forced deportation.

U.S. foreign and immigration policies, instead of recognizing the dimensions of
the Salvadoran conflict and the American role in it, have generally refused to
acknowledge the human rights abuses in El Salvador and have acted to discourage
Salvadoran asylum applications. As a result, lawsuit after lawsuit has been
brought challenging practices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In most of them, the INS lost. By the end of the '80s it had admitted, or had
been found by courts to have engaged in, discrimination against Salvadoran
asylum applicants, use of duress to discourage Salvadorans from applying for
asylum and conducting summary interviews to review applications -- often hurried
10-minute sessions held in public hallways.

The United States played a role in the civil war whose horrors were being given
such short shrift during those cursory hallway interviews. A study by the Rand
Corp. has characterized U.S. involvement as a dismal failure and a futile
attempt to persuade the Salvadoran military and rightists to respect human
rights.

Perhaps the United States had to acquiesce in the horror of torture and summary
executions consistently described by Salvadoran asylum applications. Perhaps the
choice was really between a communist totalitarian state and a right-wing
oligarchy.

But the current peace accord suggests there was always a third way, long
overlooked by all parties to the conflict, including the United States. Now is
the time to come out in full support of that peace accord, an integral part of
which is a meaningful resolution of the plight of Salvadorans residing in the
United States.

Approximately 150,000 Salvadorans are covered by President Bush's 1991 extension
of a program of temporary protection. Another 160,000 have obtained some
permanent legal status. However, this leaves anywhere from 200,000 to 700,000
Salvadorans without documentation, and there is no provision in the program of
temporary protection to provide permanent legal status.

Many in the Salvadoran community express a strong desire to return to their
country and contribute to reconstruction. Others, tied to the United States by a
long period of residency and often by the fact that they have children born and
raised here, remain uncertain, and hope for a means to integrate into this
society. Their uncertainty is exacerbated by recent upsurges in death squad
activities in El Salvador and by tension over land distribution and employment
opportunities.

The U.S. government can promote the growth of peace by offering a permanent
solution for Salvadorans who wish to reside in this country, by promoting a fair
election in El Salvador in early 1994 and by backing a firm response to death
squad activities. Those of us who must decide on immigrant legislation and who
confront the many faces of immigrants in daily life must learn to ask not just
who is illegal but why they come.

The writer is director of legal services for El Rescate, which provides legal
and social services for Salvadoran and other Central American immigrants in the
Los Angeles area.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              15 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 23, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition
                              CORRECTION APPENDED

Outreach Runs Into Neighborhood Outrage;
Montgomery's Efforts to Help Day Laborers Cause Resentment

Louis Aguilar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1595 words


Montgomery County's decision to open an employment center for Latino day
laborers in Silver Spring has sparked a fierce debate over the extent to which
local government should help immigrants, especially those who are in the country
illegally.

Opponents contend that Montgomery is improperly spending public funds by opening
the center in an area where about a third of the Latino workers are
undocumented. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Baltimore
reports that in recent weeks, people have been calling the agency to request a
raid on the Silver Spring site -- a request the INS so far has ignored.

Supporters of the program counter that Montgomery, which has become a magnet for
Latino immigrants in the last 10 years, cannot afford to ignore one of the
poorest segments of its population.

The 1990 Census counted 54,327 Latinos in Montgomery, the largest concentration
in any jurisdiction in the Washington area and about 7 percent of the county
population.

The Census Bureau counted about 31,000 Latinos in the District, 29,000 in Prince
George's County and 51,000 in Fairfax County.

Many Montgomery Latinos are recent immigrants, and many live in the county's
southeastern corner, an area that continues to attract Latino newcomers.

"These are truly some of the neediest people in our community," said Charles
Short, Montgomery's secretary of health and human services. "Whether they are
legal or illegal is not the question. They still have the right to work."

County and INS officials say it's a violation of federal immigration law to hire
undocumented immigrants, but the penalty is imposed on employers, not the people
they hire. Immigrants, if arrested for being undocumented, often obtain
temporary work permits from the INS while they await an immigration hearing, INS
officials said.

The backdrop for the rising tension is the corner of University Boulevard East
and Piney Branch Road, where Latino immigrants have gathered in the parking lot
of a 7-Eleven store for more than a decade, hoping to get picked up by an
employer who needs unskilled labor. For just as long, local residents and
businesses have complained that the site is contributing to the decline of the
working-class community around it.

The 7-Eleven parking lot draws the Latino laborers partly because many live in
nearby apartments and partly because contractors often stop in the small
shopping center next door to buy paint. The immigrants usually begin to arrive
before dawn, and by sunrise, more than 100 are spread out through the huge
parking lot.

Some come from neighboring Prince George's County and the District. A few are
African American, but most are Latinos. At least a third on any given day are
undocumented, county officials said.

When a potential employer drives up, the men swarm the vehicle and sometimes try
to jump inside before it fully stops. There is the clamor of heavily accented
English as the men try to bargain and plead for work: "I work hard!" "Hey, man,
you remember me?"

Always, there are more men than jobs, and it's that surplus of loitering men
that angers neighbors. By midday, some are drunk and others are pitching
pennies. The Clifton Baptist Church, on the west end of the parking lot, has
complained that the men verbally harass women of the congregation. The owners of
Fontana's Bowlarama, a duckpin bowling center across the street, say their
business has been "devastated."

"They just to tend to scare customers away simply because they are a large
gathering of men," said co-owner John Fontana.

The long-simmering tension reached a boiling point a little more than a month
ago when Robert Denny, a community activist from Bethesda, wrote a column in the
Montgomery Journal that said the county's involvement in the Silver Spring site
was "folly" and accused the county of "aiding and abetting . . .  criminal
activity."

Denny was angry that Montgomery, in an effort to move the laborers away from the
parking lot, spent $ 300,000 from a federal block grant last year to buy a
one-story house on University Boulevard. Prince George's County gave $ 100,000
in federal funds to renovate the house, which is a block away from the 7-Eleven
store. The house is to become a permanent employment and training center for the
immigrants, mainly Salvadorans and Guatemalans.

The county is spending an additional $ 20,000 a year in federal funds to have a
county worker on the new site assist the immigrants. And Montgomery awarded $
57,000 in county funds to CASA de Maryland, a Takoma Park-based group that has
been helping laborers at the site for two years.

Denny's column prompted a stream of letters to the editor of the Montgomery
Journal from area residents, county politicians and immigration reform advocates
in Washington.

Supporters of the county program accused opponents of racism and of taking an
oversimplified view of the problem. Opponents countered that the east Silver
Spring neighborhood is being ruined and that the county is taking advantage of
loopholes in national immigration laws.

"They want to bring all of El Salvador to that corner," said east Silver Spring
resident Daniel Houck, who has battled the county over the day laborer site for
years.

"They are mocking the laws of immigration," Houck said. "They are ruining
businesses here, and they don't care because most of the people here are
middle-class and working-class. How long do you think that site would last if it
was in Bethesda?"

Short, the Montgomery health and human services official, said critics have "a
misconception [that] . . .  these people would just go away" if the county
didn't get involved.

"What I am reading and hearing from the other side are a lot of code words that
tap into racial tensions," Short said. "They want more than the undocumented
workers to go away."

A few people have tried to turn the debate into more than a war of words. The
INS in Baltimore has fielded "a number" of calls in recent weeks from Montgomery
residents who want the agency to raid the site, said Tom Perryman, a supervisory
special agent.

The INS twice raided the site in 1990, resulting in 46 arrests of undocumented
workers. The raids created a traffic nightmare at the busy intersection as the
immigrants rushed into the street, causing one INS vehicle to get into a "minor
fender bender," Perryman said.

Perryman said the INS doesn't have enough agents to conduct such raids again.
Even if the agency had enough personnel, he said, the arrests would prove futile
because most of the undocumented workers would get temporary work permits while
they awaited immigration hearings. Although it is against the law to hire an
immigrant who lacks residency papers, INS officials said the penalties on
employers -- up to $ 2,000 for a first offense -- are rarely imposed.

Perryman said his office may look into whether the county is breaking the law by
allowing undocumented workers to find jobs, but he doubts that is the case
because the county doesn't match workers with employers. It is the employers'
obligation to determine whether workers are documented, not the county's or
CASA's.

County and CASA officials remain unwavering in their support of the Silver
Spring center, contending that it is the best way to ease tensions between
immigrants and other area residents and businesses.

"This is the only way we can get a handle on the situation out there," said
Montgomery County Executive Neal Potter (D). "We are providing some assistance
for the workers, and we are trying to get them away from the parking lot."

The county has been lending a hand unofficially at the site since a trailer
donated by Montgomery College was set up in the parking lot in October 1991.
Then, last August, the county bought a house a block away from the 7-Eleven
store and moved the trailer behind the house.

In early December, Montgomery County employee Sergio Luna began working at the
new site, trying to persuade the laborers to gather there, instead of at the
7-Eleven. The new site has attracted some of the men, but many still congregrate
at the convenience store.

Luna and CASA officials concede that the corner parking lot will never be
cleared completely as long as employers continue to stop there. "If the
employers want to not fill out our paperwork, then he will go to 7-Eleven," Luna
said. "The workers will follow him there."

CASA plans to run job-training programs at the house, as well as English classes
and other social assistance programs. Luna said he hopes more workers will use
the center once they realize that it offers training and a chance to earn better
wages.

But the critics are pressing on. Denny said he has received more than 50 calls
of support since he wrote the column. "People are just beginning to realize how
much of a drain these illegals will be on the whole system -- in the schools, in
health issues," he said. "The site is just the tip of the iceberg."

Opponents of the county program say they are being unfairly accused of racism.
"I don't want to be branded as an Hispanic hater," Fontana said. "I know most of
those people there are honest men trying to find work. I am not really trying to
blame them."

But Short, the county official, isn't buying it. "We are in a very dangerous
place in Montgomery County history," Short warned. "We've gotten to be very
diverse in the past 10 years, and at the same time, we are facing tougher
economic times.

"This is one of the more blatant examples [of people trying] to fragment our
community along those lines."


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: An article Sunday failed to provide the full context of a remark by
Charles Short, Montgomery County's secretary of health and human services, that
illegal immigrants have the right to work. He noted that once an illegal
immigrant is arrested, federal authorities often grant a temporary permit
allowing that person to work while awaiting a deportation hearing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DAY LABORERS, HOPING FOR WORK, CROWD AROUND AN EMPLOYER'S TRUCK
IN THE PARKING LOT OF A 7-ELEVEN IN SILVER SPRING. JUANA ARIAS

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              16 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 4, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Administration Unveils Plans To Beef Up Border Control

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2

LENGTH: 851 words


The Clinton administration yesterday unveiled a new, $ 368 million border
control program to stem the tide of illegal immigration from Mexico by adding
more than 1,000 agents and sophisticated electronic equipment to the Southwest
frontier.

The $ 368 million for fiscal 1995 will be requested in President Clinton's
proposed budget on Monday and will require congressional approval. It could get
the support of delegations from five large states with immigration concerns:
California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois.

The proposed crackdown, part of which is patterned after last year's highly
successful "Operation Blockade" in El Paso, also will include efforts to deport
illegal immigrants who are in prisons on criminal charges, curtail the sale of
fraudulent documents, revise the asylum process and ease the path of legal
immigrants to this country.

Coupled with $ 172.5 million already appropriated for this fiscal year, the new
spending package will bring the cost of the two-year border campaign to $ 540.5
million. It will raise the Immigration and Naturalization Service budget in
fiscal 1995 by 22 percent, to $ 2.1 billion.

In announcing the initiative, Attorney General Janet Reno said the
administration is committed to maintaining the U.S. tradition of liberal
immigration policies. "But we will not permit this cherished tradition to be
jeopardized by weakness in enforcing our immigration laws," she added.

INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner said the biggest share of the package -- $
180 million -- will go to adding 1,010 Border Patrol agents to the Southwest by
the end of next year. Half of those will be new agents; the rest, agents freed
from desk jobs.

During the first year, all of the new and redeployed agents will be sent to San
Diego and El Paso, where 65 percent of the arrests of undocumented immigrants
occur, Meissner said.

However, in a letter to Reno yesterday, the four senators from Arizona and New
Mexico -- two Republicans and two Democrats -- complained that $ 45 million
appropiated for 600 additional border agents this year was being used only in El
Paso and San Diego, while their states are getting no new agents.

In a separate letter, Sens. Pete V. Domenici (R-N.M.) and Ernest F. Hollings
(D-S.C.), chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee that handles the Justice
Department, complained that the expenditures "do not conform with congressional
direction" and demanded that the Justice Department submit a reprogramming
request before obligating the $ 45 million.

In addition to hiring new agents, the Border Patrol also will buy new mobile
infared telescopes, electronic sensors and secure radios to help agents detect
illegal border crossings, install about five miles of lighting east of the San
Ysidro entry to California and erect five miles of secondary fencing to block
entry onto highways, INS officials said.

Joining Reno and Meissner in a news conference was Rep. Duncan Hunter
(R-Calif.), who praised the initiative but said that at least 10,000 border
agents -- roughly 6,500 more than are currently deployed along the 2,000-mile
Southwest frontier -- will be needed to effectively curtail illegal immigration.

Meissner said that figure "seems very high" but added that manpower needs will
be reevaluated after the INS assesses the effectiveness of the additional 1,010
agents. She said the new lighting and sensors will have a "force-multiplying
effect" and that the budgeted number of new agents may prove to be adequate.

Other members of the congressional delegation from California, where illegal
immigration has burdened social services and strained the state budget, hailed
the initiative as a major step forward. Sen. Barbara Boxer (D) recalled that
Reno visited the San Diego border last August, "looked the agents in the eyes
and said, 'Tell me what you need.' "

Meissner said the initiative, in effect, will put last year's dramatic
immigration crackdown in El Paso on a permanent footing in that West Texas
border city and extend some of its experimental blockade principles to San
Diego, which has the country's highest number of illegal crossings.

During "Operation Blockade," 400 agents -- four times the usual number --
prevented illegal entries along a 20-mile stretch of the Rio Grande instead of
attempting to apprehend undocumented aliens who had already slipped into the
country.

Arrests by border agents fell from 1,200 a day in July to 50 to 75 a day in
November, INS officials said.

Reno said the initiative will double the number of INS hearing officers and
immigration judges to clear a backlog of 300,000 political asylum claims, step
up investigations of employers that traditionally employ illegal workers, reduce
the number of documents that can be used to obtain work permits and make it more
difficult to counterfeit "green cards."

Mario Moreno, Washington representative of the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund, commended the initiative but said it will require
"detailed scrutiny and continued dialogue to assure positive solutions" to
immigration problems.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              17 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 27, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Latinos Attack Va. Bill to Require Reporting of Illegal Immigrants

Lisa Leff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 1129 words


Latino activists say they are surprised and angered by a proposal in the
Virginia Senate that would require state officials to identify illegal
immigrants who use publicly funded social services and report them to federal
authorities for possible deportation.

The bill's sponsor, state Sen. Warren E. Barry (R-Fairfax), said his resolution
is designed to determine how much the state spends on undocumented residents.
The information then could be used to seek reimbursement from the U.S.
government, which has failed to enforce federal immigration policies, Barry
said.

"We have to make an appeal to the federal government to either put an end to
this tremendous influx of pregnant women and undocumented workers and children
that are pouring into the commonwealth or to pay for it," Barry said.

Latino activists say the senator's plan would foster discrimination against all
immigrants -- illegal or not -- and discourage undocumented residents from using
services to which they are legally entitled, such as public education and
emergency health care.

"From now on, anyone who looks or sounds foreign, you are going to question.
It's sort of like a witch hunt," said Pedro Aviles, executive director of the
regional Latino Civil Rights Task Force.

Leaders of Latino groups in Virginia heard about the initiative last week, days
after it had sailed through the Senate. The measure has 15 cosponsors besides
Barry, including four from Northern Virginia, where most of the state's more
than 155,000 Latinos live.

"It really threw us for a loop," said Sam McTyre, legal director for the League
of United Latin American Citizens. "We are getting a lot of excuses from a lot
of people." McTyre said several senators have since told LULAC that they did not
read the measure carefully before affixing their names to it. Telephone calls to
cosponsors were not returned.

In response to the outcry, Barry said he intends to amend the bill to remove the
part about reporting to the immigration service. He said his main concern is
getting an accurate accounting of the cost of social services for illegal
immigrants. At the same time, he said he was "astounded" by the intense
criticism his effort generated.

"Nothing about this says anything about Hispanic or Latino, but they seem to be
the ones who are offended by it," Barry said. "They ought to be working with me
and with the state government and the federal government to find some solution
to this before we are so swamped by aliens that the citizens rise up to stop
it."

A companion bill that would require state officials to develop a method to
determine the cost of providing services to people who are here illegally was
passed unanimously by the Virginia House last week. That measure, however, does
not include the provision about reporting illegal immigrants for possible
deportation.

Several states where immigrants make up a growing share of students in public
schools and patients at public clinics, including California and Florida, are
trying to count their undocumented residents in preparation for taking legal
action to force the federal government to reimburse the states. There is no
provision for reimbursing states for the cost of social services provided to
illegal immigrants.

Barry's initiative, as approved by the Senate, appears to be the first that also
would use the information to turn people in to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said Melissa Zimmermann, a research associate with the
Urban Institute. In fact, some state and local governments adopted laws during
the 1980s declaring themselves "sanctuaries" where people from war-torn Central
American countries could seek refuge without fear of deportation.

As currently written, the bill asks Virginia's secretary of health and human
resources to "determine the number and identity of unauthorized persons who
receive benefits in the Commonwealth" and to estimate the cost of those
services.

The bill goes on to require the secretary to "establish procedures for reporting
all undocumented persons to the [immigration service] for deportation or for
debt collection for the services they have illegally obtained."

Yet it is unclear that undocumented residents break federal or state laws when
they use most social services. In 1982, the Supreme Court ruled that children
who are living in the United States illegally must nonetheless be allowed to
enroll in public schools. Lower courts, meanwhile, have guaranteed undocumented
immigrants access to prenatal and emergency health care.

"You can get into some terrible gray areas," said Duke Austin, an immigration
service spokesman. "Under our laws, anyone born here is a U.S. citizen. If you
gave birth to a child here, you apply for welfare and you are undocumented, you
might be ineligible. Yet you have a U.S. citizen who needs help. These are not
as easy decisions to make as people would have you believe."

American citizenship or legal residence is not a prerequisite for receiving
health services under Virginia law, said Susan Allan, director of the Arlington
County Health Department. In fact, people can be immunized or tested for
sexually transmitted diseases at state-funded clinics without being a Virginia
resident, Allan said.

Allan worries that being asked about their legal status would discourage
immigrants from seeking medical attention for many illnesses, including AIDS and
alcoholism, thereby posing a public health threat.

"If we are treating someone for tuberculosis, it may make me glad that person
gets better, but the purpose of treating that individual is to prevent the rest
of the community from getting tuberculosis," Allan said.

About 75 percent of the women and children receiving prenatal or pediatric care
at the county's clinics are foreign-born, but health workers do not attempt to
ascertain their patients' immigration status, she said.

When the immigration service produced a rough estimate of the number of illegal
immigrants living in each state two years ago, Virginia ranked ninth, with about
37,300 undocumented residents. That number included 8,000 Salvadorans, 3,100
Bolivians, 2,000 Pakistanis and 1,700 Iranians.

California, New York and Florida had the most; Maryland ranked 11th, with 27,500
illegal immigrants. The District had 14,500, according to the estimates.

In addition to lobbying legislators to kill Barry's bill and its House
companion, groups representing Latinos are seeking support for a third measure
that would establish a state committee to review programs and policies that deal
with immigrants and refugees. The legislation, authored by Del. L. Karen Darner
(D-Arlington), makes no mention of counting illegal immigrants and refers to all
immigrants simply as "newcomers."


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, STATE SEN. WARREN E. BARRY.

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              18 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      March 4, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

House Rejects Illegal Student Reporting Bill

Kevin Merida, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A12

LENGTH: 561 words


The House yesterday became embroiled in another emotional discussion of
immigration policy as it defeated an amendment that would have required school
districts to report the number of students who are illegally in the United
States.

The amendment, sponsored by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), was defeated, 329
to 78, after a highly charged debate that highlighted issues of ethnicity,
discrimination and the cost of providing government services to illegal
immigrants. Opponents invoked images of Nazi Germany and the prospect of turning
children into "spies" against their illegal parents. Proponents cited mountains
of statistics in an effort to show illegal immigrants were draining billions of
dollars from the economy.

"We've got to take the welcome sign that says: If you can get across this
border, we're going to give you all kinds of benefits, the same benefit package
that any American has," Rohrabacher said. "We have to care about our own people
first."

Rep. Jose E. Serrano (D-N.Y.), chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus,
called Rohrabacher's amendment "mean-spirited, misguided and foolish." He said
it was emblematic of a "cheap political style" practiced by some lawmakers to
pit permanent residents against illegal residents.

The amendment, attached to the bill reauthorizing federal elementary and
secondary education programs for the next five years, also would have required
school districts to determine the number of students who are legal residents but
who do not have at least one parent or legal guardian who is lawfully in the
United States. School districts that failed to comply with the reporting
requirements would have lost their federal Title I education funds.

The volatility of the debate yesterday underscored how politically sensitive the
illegal immigration issue has become. Rohrabacher's amendment is the latest
illustration of how immigration policy questions are being thrown into House
floor debates with increasing frequency.

Over the past year, the House has debated whether flood relief and earthquake
aid should be given to undocumented workers and whether the national service
program should apply to illegal immigrants. Another emotional debate about
immigration was conducted over extension of unemployment insurance.

House Majority Leader Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo.) implored colleagues to quit
using such forums to debate illegal immigration. "Let's please not burden every
piece of legislation that comes through here with an added responsibility to
enforce the immigration laws of our country," he said. "Let's get the
immigration laws enforced by the Immigration [and Naturalization] Service."

Gephardt and others argued that school systems did not have expertise or
resources to find out the number of illegal students enrolled or those enrolled
with illegal parents. Rep. David R. Obey (D-Wis.) argued the amendment would
"simply impose data-gathering burdens for no good purpose," diverting funds
needed for schooling.

Rohrabacher maintained he was trying to gather statistics, not names, and that
the information would benefit those in favor and against providing federal
benefits for illegal immigrants.

But Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) said the amendment would make even legal
immigrants susceptible to discrimination because they do not look like "average
Americans."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              19 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 5, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Va. Sets Aside Proposal on Illegal Immigrants

Lisa Leff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 602 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, March 4


A committee of Virginia lawmakers extended an olive branch to Latino activists
today when it shelved a measure that would have encouraged state social service
agencies to report illegal immigrants to federal authorities.

Temporarily defusing an emotional issue, the Rules Committee of the House of
Delegates voted to take a year to study the effect of illegal immigration on
state and local governments before taking further action. The matter is
effectively dead until the 1995 legislative session.

"We were hoping to kill it once and for all, but given the concerns on both
sides, a deferral in this case could be considered a victory," said Pedro
Aviles, executive director of the Latino Civil Rights Task Force, one of the
advocacy groups that fought the resolution. Opponents argued that it would
discriminate against all foreign-born residents.

The House committee's compromise was reached despite an offer by state Sen.
Warren E. Barry (R-Fairfax), the measure's lead sponsor, to remove any mention
of turning undocumented residents over to the federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service for possible deportation. He said he wants state agencies
to count their undocumented clients mainly to control education and health care
costs in the commonwealth, not to deport people, Barry said.

Other legislators interviewed today generally disagreed with Barry's contention
that state money should be used to conduct a census of illegal immigrants. But
many said they share his underlying concern and agree that Virginia should join
Florida, California and other large states that have threatened to sue the
federal government for reimbursement of spending on social services for
undocumented residents and foreign refugees.

"The federal government sets immigration policy, or doesn't set the policy in
this case, and state and local governments are bearing the economic brunt," said
Sen. Robert L. Calhoun (R-Alexandria). "We ought to ask our agencies what kind
of burden are you experiencing with immigration period, legal or illegal."

"I think we have to educate children, but the whole situation can be better
handled if we direct the governor to work on immigration with other governors,"
said Del. Gladys B. Keating (D-Franconia).

Barry's resolution sailed unanimously through the Senate with hardly any notice,
and its recent troubles seem to reflect the confused feelings people have about
immigration. Calhoun, one of 14 cosponsors, said the resolution progressed as
far as it did because some senators, himself included, did not read the fine
print dealing with deportation until Latino groups pointed it out. But Calhoun
said immigration has gotten out of control.

'I'm sorry people are upset about it, but the facts are facts," Calhoun said
about opposition to the resolution.

At the same time, the Senate committee that originally endorsed Barry's proposal
has since endorsed a separate resolution designed to improve services for
immigrants. Sponsored by Del. L. Karen Darner (D-Arlington), it calls on the
governor to appoint a committee to review existing programs and policies dealing
with immigrants for duplication and effectiveness.

Charles D. Hoyt, a McLean resident who is a member of the League of Latin
American Citizens, said that after watching the debate over Barry's measure, he
is convinced that a lack of understanding, not ill will, caused lawmakers to
approve something so "politically explosive and very racist." It was a mistake
he does not expect to see repeated, he said. "Given adequate information, people
will make rational decisions," Hoyt said.


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SEN. ROBERT L. CALHOUN.

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              20 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 31, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Asylum Without Abuses

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A30

LENGTH: 502 words


MUCH OF THE anti-immigrant backlash sentiment that appears to be growing in this
country is because of the financial burdens imposed on states -- particularly
those such as Florida, Texas and California -- by increasing numbers of illegal
aliens. But resentment is also fueled by the perception that foreigners are
abusing generous political asylum laws and are allowed to enter or remain in the
United States once they file petitions, no matter how weak their claims of
persecution appear to be. In fact, asylum requests have tripled from 56,000 in
1991 to 150,000 last year. While claims are pending -- processing now takes 18
to 24 months -- applicants are given work permits, and most of them simply
disappear into the general population. The backlog of cases is now 370,000, and
it is growing because the practice of requesting asylum has proved to be such a
successful way to get into this country and stay.

On Tuesday the Immigration and Naturalization Service, acting at the direction
of President Clinton, announced a series of reforms in asylum procedures that
will cut down on paperwork, greatly accelerate the process and make possible a
serious effort to get at the backlog. That's good news. The number of INS asylum
officers who make initial determinations in these cases will be increased from
150 to 334. The Justice Department will raise the number of immigration judges,
who review adverse decisions by asylum officers, from 85 to 135. Total
processing time will be reduced to a maximum of 180 days, with meritorious
claims handled in 60 days. And of critical importance, work permits won't be
given automatically to all applicants, only to those granted asylum and those
whose cases have not been decided within 150 days.

The proposed regulations would also impose for the first time a $ 130 fee for
asylum applicants. This change is controversial but must be viewed in context.
With few exceptions, all petitions filed by immigrants -- those, for example,
involving visas, amnesty and citizenship -- carry a fee. Until now, a surcharge
on these fees has been used to process asylum applications at a cost of $ 615
per case. Because 65 percent of all asylum applicants file only after they have
been living and supporting themselves in this country for at least six months,
an application fee is not unreasonable. Those who cannot pay can apply for a
waiver.

These changes have been developed in consultation with immigrants' rights
advocacy groups and relevant congressional committees, most of which are
generally supportive. The real threat to the plan will probably come from those
who favor more radical changes. In our view, though, it makes sense to implement
these reforms now and measure their effectiveness before going any farther. The
present system, with its widespread abuses, could not be allowed to continue.
The new regulations should bring improvements without altering this country's
fundamental commitment to provide asylum to those who genuinely qualify.


LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              21 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 6, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Hispanic Leader Indicted in Las Vegas;
Abuse of Amnesty Program Is Alleged

Pierre Thomas, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 679 words


The president of the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), one of
the nation's largest Latino organizations, was indicted yesterday in connection
with an alleged amnesty scam involving thousands of illegal immigrants.

Federal prosecutors charged that Jose Velez conspired along with three Taiwanese
immigration consultants to "create and supply" false documents and statements to
federal immigration officials "so that applicants who were not legally entitled
to reside and to work in the [United States] could fraudulently obtain the right
to do so."

The 17-count indictment obtained by Kathryn E. Landreth, the U.S. attorney in
Las Vegas, charges that the conspirators "recruited large numbers of unqualified
aliens and brought them to Las Vegas, sometimes by the busload" from March 1988
to January 1991. Many of the recruits were wealthy Taiwanese citizens, who were
sometimes charged fees as high as $ 45,000 per application, the indictment says.

Edward Marshall, attorney for Velez, declined comment, saying he had not yet
seen the indictment.

Prosecutors say the alleged scam involves abuse of the Immigration Reform and
Control Act, which went into effect in 1986. Under the act, illegal immigrants
could file applications to legalize their status. Immigrants who had been in
continuous illegal status before 1982 were allowed to file amnesty applications,
as were undocumented aliens who performed at least 90 days of seasonal
agricultural work during 12-month periods from 1984 through 1986.

Certain organizations were designated to file amnesty applications. One of them
was LULAC-Nevada, where Velez was state director.

Justice Department officials charged that Velez, through his immigration
consulting business, Velez and Sons Inc., "processed thousands of false
legalization applications." LULAC has not been accused of any wrongdoing.

Velez and the conspirators allegedly falsely claimed that applicants had done
the required agricultural work and provided documentation or statements showing
that the illegal immigrants had lived in the country since before 1982, though
they had not.

The indictment is part of an ongoing series of immigration fraud investigations
conducted by the INS and the Internal Revenue Service.

In January, federal officials charged Billy Tzeng and Simon Chang, two Taiwanese
citizens, with five counts of filing false statements to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Those five counts were incorporated into yesterday's
superseding indictment, which was expanded to include Velez and Al Feng, another
Taiwan citizen. In a separate case, also filed yesterday, a company competing
against Velez was charged with similar offenses.

In that case, Diana Hernandez and three codefendants were charged with alleged
abuses of the amnesty law.

If convicted on all counts, Velez and Feng face a maximum penalty of 60 years in
prison and a fine of $ 3 million. Tzeng and Chang face a maximum sentence of 85
years imprisonment and a fine totaling $ 4.2 million.

LULAC is one of the country's largest and oldest grass-roots Hispanic
organizations. It seeks to promote full social, political, economic and
educational rights for Hispanics in the United States. It encourages voter
registration and offers employment and training programs. Last night, officials
at the organization's Nevada headquarters were scrambling to find out exactly
what Velez had been charged with. Officials said they would not issue a
statement until they had further information about the charges.

Velez, who was born in Managua, Nicaragua, has been the subject of attention
since 1990, when he was elected president of LULAC in a disputed election at the
organization's national convention in Albuquerque, according to published
reports.

For years, INS officials have charged that the amnesty program has been
overwhelmed by thousands of false applications. In 1990, INS began more closely
scrutinizing firms and immigration attorneys that had been charging thousands of
dollars to assist applicants in filing applications.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              22 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 25, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants Pose Issues Of Cost, Conscience for Area

Charles W. Hall , Steve Bates, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1344 words


Under U.S. immigration laws, Darcy and Isabel have no right to be here. Yet in
the five years they have lived in Arlington, their family has received tens of
thousands of dollars in government-financed medical care and other benefits.

Since the couple arrived illegally from Peru in 1989, two of their three
children were born. As U.S. citizens, Michael, 4, and Randy, 2, receive milk and
food through anti-poverty programs. After Randy's heart defect was diagnosed,
two operations were paid for by taxpayers through the Medicaid program.

Illegal immigrants are pouring into the United States and increasingly are
getting government subsidies for housing, health care and food. As they do so, a
contentious debate is emerging concerning the extent of help they should get and
who ought to pay for it.

Last week, Virginia lawmakers passed a law cutting off public schooling to
illegal immigrants after they turn 18. Some members of Congress have sought
limits on public aid, and President Clinton has vowed to limit assistance to
immigrants in his welfare and health care reform initiatives. State officials
across the country are pushing for federal reimbursement for the costs of
services to illegal immigrants.

In the Washington area, some officials have been assessing the effect on already
strained government budgets.

"There's a silent invasion going on, and nobody's doing anything about it," said
Virginia Sen. Warren E. Barry (R-Fairfax), who earlier this year sponsored a
bill to force state agencies to report illegal immigrants to federal
authorities. "We used to be the country of golden opportunity, but we are now
the country of the golden goose. There are simply limits to what we can absorb."

Virginia Gov. George Allen's press secretary, Ken Stroupe, said that playing the
role of good Samaritan is too much of a burden for the state.

"The governor feels that taxpayers should not be obligated to provide
educational opportunities, above and beyond what is required, for people who are
not legal residents," said Stroupe, referring to the new measure restricting
schooling. Under law, all school-age children are entitled to public education
up to age 18, regardless of legal status.

Immigrants, both illegal and legal, are worried about the growing backlash, and
local officials charged with helping the needy say cutbacks in government aid
could cause severe social problems.

"The hypocrisy here is remarkable, in a nation where almost all of us are
immigrants," said Ron Carlee, director of human services in Arlington. "I feel
very emotional about anything that smacks of racism. When we reject people
because they are different, I don't think we should be afraid to call that what
it is."

There are no firm numbers on how many illegal immigrants are in the United
States. Data from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Census
Bureau suggest that roughly 70,000 illegal immigrants live in the Washington
area. That represents about one in six foreign-born people here and nearly 2
percent of the area's total population.

INS officials estimated that 3.2 million illegal immigrants were in the United
States in October 1992, and estimates of new illegals range from 300,000 to
500,000 annually.

Private studies indicate that about 11 percent of the illegal immigrant
population consists of children enrolled in public schools. Based on INS data,
that would mean that approximately 8,000 Washington area public school students
are illegal immigrants. The cost to educate them may exceed $ 50 million a year,
some officials say.

In addition, public health officials in Arlington and Montgomery -- where about
20 percent of the population in each county is foreign-born -- say a significant
portion of their clientele lacks residence documents.

Other data suggest that Medicaid costs for the area's illegal immigrants may
have reached $ 20 million in 1993, while costs for Aid to Families with
Dependent Children and other anti-poverty programs cost several million more.

"It's become the dominant issue in human services," said Charles Short,
secretary for health and human services in Montgomery County. "It's fair for my
taxpayer to ask me how much of my tax money is going to illegal aliens. The
story here is, we really don't know."

Short felt the wrath of Montgomery residents when he established job training
programs that are open to illegal immigrants.

"The county is developing a reputation as a gracious host, and I think there's a
growing resentment," said Rose Crenca, a former Montgomery County Council member
and current president of the county's Taxpayers League. "People are afraid for
their own jobs, and they're seeing an increasing need for establishing
[programs] for people who aren't supposed to be here."

According to INS data, an estimated 14,000 illegal immigrants live in the
District, about 37,000 live in Virginia and 29,000 live in Maryland.

Based on data compiled from information provided by illegal immigrants who
applied for amnesty in 1988, INS officials have concluded that more than 80
percent of Maryland's and Virginia's illegal immigrants live in the Washington
region -- or about 20 percent of the 250,000 foreign-born residents who moved to
the Washington area in the 1980s.

Barry said he sought to make Virginia government agencies report illegal
immigrants after a Fairfax County school official told him that as many as 3,100
undocumented children were attending county schools. His bill passed the Senate
but was blocked in the House after Hispanic leaders mounted a bitter protest.

"At close to $ 8,000 per kid, I figured that was almost $ 25 million," Barry
said. "In talking to the people at the state, I realized we have no way to make
even an estimate [of the cost of services to illegal immigrants]. It's a bad
situation, and I just wondered what was going on."

While Barry's position won him support among many voters -- he said virtually
all of his mail was favorable -- it caused fear and heartache among immigrant
leaders, and illegal residents such as Isabel and Darcy, the couple from Peru.

"When I heard on the radio about this Fairfax senator's bill, I went numb," said
Isabel, 30, who asked that her family's last name not be used to reduce risk of
deportation. "I thought they would take my children's health care away."

Officials say that many illegal immigrant families, such as Isabel's, offer a
patchwork of legal statuses, with illegal parents raising children who, having
been born in the United States, make the households eligible for a wide range of
benefit programs.

Isabel's two youngest children have received $ 50 a month in food vouchers from
the Women, Infants and Children program, a federal nutrition program, and the
health care paid by Medicaid. Their oldest daughter, Wanda, 6, however, was born
in Peru and does not qualify for such programs.

"I feel very grateful to America for this," Isabel said. "If we had stayed in
Peru, I don't know if my youngest child would have lived."

Isabel, who works as a babysitter, and her husband, Darcy, 30, a laborer, both
attended college in Peru. They said they are frustrated that many better-paying
jobs are off-limits to them.

The thought of being deported is always in the back of her mind, Isabel said,
but she doesn't hide from authorities. "The police are not looking for us," she
said. "When I go to school [to pick up the oldest child], I don't see any
immigration people there."

Some social services officials said the country will suffer if subsidies for
illegal immigrants are restricted, particularly in public health. Susan Allan,
Arlington public health director, said that refusing to treat illegal immigrants
for tuberculosis, for example, could put everyone at risk of the contagious
disease.

Allan and others said that other programs, such as Head Start, are vital to
heading off future problems. "The success of this immigration ultimately will
depend on how the children do, because the parents' options often are pretty
limited," she said.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, YONATAN TEKLE DIDN'T LIKE VISITING A GOVERNMENT IMMUNIZATION
CLINIC IN ARLINGTON THAT SERVICES MANY IMMIGRANTS. HARRY NALTCHAYAN

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              23 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 5, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Stopping Illegal Immigrants: New Tactic Has Weak Points;
Border-Crossers Find Paths of Less Resistance

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 1426 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


The homemade rafts carrying illegal immigrants across the Rio Grande are gone
and so are the crowds that once made their daily international commute from
Mexico to the United States across "the black bridge," a sooty railroad trestle
supervised by a gang rather than Customs officials.

Now Border Patrol agents in their pale green vehicles, stationed within eyesight
of each other, keep a continuous watch on 20 miles of river and desert. Day or
night it is difficult for anyone to cross illegally without being spotted. Few
even try.

But 270 miles to the west at Nogales, Ariz., the border looks very different.

Packs of teenage boys sit around gaping holes in the border fence and aim a
barrage of rocks at every Border Patrol vehicle that comes by. A young woman in
hot pink jeans strides purposely ahead of 11 stealthy figures like a general
leading troops into battle. As she brings them across, she has to halt
momentarily and wait for the many groups in front of hers to make the scramble
onto downtown streets where they can melt into the crowd.

"Everyone wants to cross here now, so we are very busy," said the smuggler in
pink a few moments later as she scouted an alley that provides discreet access
to a major street.

These two scenes demonstrate the promise and the peril of an idea that has
rapidly gained support from a wide array of policymakers and advocates in recent
months. For the first time since illegal immigration intruded on the national
agenda, a powerful consensus has developed in favor of attacking the problem at
the border. With sponsors in a virtual bidding war, Congress now has before it
various measures that would add from 500 to 6,000 new agents to the Border
Patrol.

But amid this abundant enthusiasm, several experts and some immigration
officials are raising questions about the strategy. They ask: What will it take
to shut down all 2,000 miles of the southern border? How will a border-oriented
strategy affect the approximately 3 million to 4 million illegal immigrants
already living in the United States? And finally, is the border the best place
to attack the problem of illegal immigration?

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that of the 300,000 people
added to the long-term population of illegal immigrants each year, only about
half enter the country by crossing the border illicitly while others come as
legal visitors and overstay their visas.

"Illegal immigration is just the sort of issue that prompts people to look for a
silver bullet," said Michael Fix, director of immigration policy programs at the
Urban Institute, "and one can't help but wonder whether we aren't seizing on
this one because it is so attractive politically."

The odd quiet in El Paso and the bustling illegal traffic in Nogales illustrate
one of the clearest challenges to a border control strategy. Cracking down in
one spot often just moves the pressure elsewhere. The Border Patrol calls it
"the balloon effect" and the smuggler in pink was quick to recognize it.

"People are coming here," she said, "because it is not so easy to cross through
El Paso anymore. La Migra [the Border Patrol] has closed it off and everybody
knows that. For us here it's a good thing, more customers."

More customers for the smugglers mean more work for the Border Patrol. Since
September, apprehensions by the patrol's Tucson sector have risen about 45
percent compared to the same period last year.

The sudden increase in Arizona coincides almost precisely with an experiment
undertaken by the El Paso Border Patrol station. The Border Patrol's standard
procedure calls for agents to hang back from "the line," wait for people to
enter the country and then try to catch them once it is too late for them to
scramble back into Mexico. For decades the cat-and-mouse game produced thousands
of apprehensions a day but failed to prevent illegal border crossings.

In a radical departure, the El Paso sector deployed all the agents it could
muster at the border itself last September in "Operation Hold the Line." By all
accounts it has been extremely effective on that 20-mile stretch. And with
agents stationed on the Rio Grande levees instead of chasing people down city
streets, complaints from local residents have dropped as fast as the number of
illegal crossings.

Suddenly the idea of border control seemed practical and appealing, and it has
rapidly eclipsed the less direct strategy of combating illegal immigration by
eliminating the magnetic attraction of jobs. That approach had become law in
1986 when Congress enacted sanctions against employers who hire illegal
immigrants. Now the jobs strategy is hardly mentioned.

President Clinton said recently that the administration is taking aim at illegal
immigration "primarily by toughening our border enforcement" because "that is
the federal government's primary responsibility in this area."

The administration is asking Congress for $ 368 million in additional spending
on immigration programs and border controls would get $ 180 million of that,
more than four times what would go to improved enforcement of employer
sanctions.

In announcing the budget initiative last February, INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner said: "The idea is to bolster enforcement at the border so that people
are prevented from entering illegally altogether. The special operation we
carried out in El Paso last fall showed that illegal entry can be deterred if we
work smart."

Similar sentiments have been expressed by California Gov. Pete Wilson (R), who
has made criticism of federal immigration policies a hallmark of his reelection
campaign. After traveling to El Paso recently and posing with a mounted
detachment of Border Patrol agents arrayed behind him, Wilson proclaimed, "El
Paso proves that you can control the border."

Wilson and other advocates of tougher controls insist the payoff will come in
reduced expenses for social services to illegal immigrants. Perhaps the most
frequent allegation is that Mexicans are crossing into the United States to get
free health care at public hospitals, especially pregnant women who want their
children to be born U.S. citizens.

Thomason Hospital is the only public hospital in El Paso and has the only trauma
center within a 250-mile radius. It annually produces about half the births
registered in El Paso County.

Six months of statistics since the Border Patrol operation went into effect show
virtually no change in admissions, emergency room visits, deliveries or any
other measures of hospital activity.

"What I think this shows," said Pete Duarte, the hospital's chief executive
officer, "is that we have always had a large population of people who live in El
Paso and who used to go back and forth across the border a lot, sometimes
illegally. Now they just stay on this side or cross legally."

While the drop in illegal traffic in El Paso is striking, the increased traffic
in Nogales shows that some illegal crossers have simply been diverted.

"It looks like this operation has affected different types of migrants in
different ways," said Frank D. Bean, a University of Texas sociologist who is
evaluating the El Paso operation for the federal Commission on Immigration
Reform.

A drop in petty crime and street vending indicates that many juveniles and
people of little means are no longer crossing illegally, Bean said. Meanwhile,
the lack of substantial change in indicators such as hospital activity, sales
tax receipts and bus ridership suggests that new routes have been discovered by
people who cross for work or other long-term goals like having a baby, Bean
said.

What would it take to reach INS Commissioner Meissner's goal of totally
preventing illegal crossings? The administration's budget proposals would add
500 agents to the Border Patrol over this year and next, a 12.5 percent increase
in the force. Another 510 agents would move from support functions to the front
lines.

Administration opponents are already pushing for a much bigger effort. During
his El Paso visit Wilson said, "Congress cannot say to the Border Patrol: Do it
on the cheap, do it with too few people, without the resources you require."

But some within the INS are already worrying about where this policy leads. A
senior official who asked not to be identified said, "After you clamp down in El
Paso and San Diego, you have to do Nogales and then the next place and the next.
You'll just keep adding resources like you're escalating a military operation
without knowing what it will take to win."


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, BELOW A 10-FOOT WALL BEING BUILT FOR BORDER CONTROL, TWO
WOMEN PASS THROUGH A DRAINAGE PIPE FROM MEXICO INTO NOGALES, ARIZ., FOR A DAY OF
SHOPPING. BRAD WYE; PHOTO, LINDA SEEGER SALAZAR FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              24 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                       May 6, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Washington Must Act Now on Immigrants

Pete Wilson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 821 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Today in Los Angeles, illegal immigrants and their children total nearly a
million people. That's a city of illegal immigrants the size of San Diego,
America's sixth largest. And by the Clinton administration's own estimates, an
additional 100,000 illegal immigrants cross the border into California every
year.

Our schools, our hospitals, and our social services are overwhelmed by the
federal government's failure to control the border. California's hard-pressed
taxpayers, who are already reeling from natural disasters and federal defense
cuts, need relief now.

It might be hard for people in Washington to fully understand the urgency or the
impact of massive illegal immigration on California -- they talk of doing
something next year. But the numbers are shocking. Two-thirds of all babies born
in L.A. public hospitals are born to parents who have illegally entered the
United States. The cost to California taxpayers of federally required health
care for illegal immigrants has grown 18-fold to $ 400 million in just six
years. And while for the third year running California will be facing the
painful necessity of cutting state services, its taxpayers will be compelled by
federal law to spend millions incarcerating enough illegal aliens to fill eight
state prisons.

The cost to California of providing federally mandated services to illegal
immigrants and their families is more than $ 3 billion a year -- nearly 10
percent of a state budget that has already been reduced by $ 4 billion in the
past two years. California simply cannot afford this continual hemorrhaging in
its budget. But some congressional leaders in Washington appear not to have
gotten the message.

In March, when both houses of Congress adopted language directing the federal
government to reimburse states for the cost of education, incarceration and
emergency health care for illegal immigrants, House Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt was quoted as saying: "Let us please not burden every piece of
legislation that comes through here with an added responsibility to enforce the
immigration laws of this country."

Well, excuse me, Mr. Majority Leader. Since when was enforcing the laws of our
country a responsibility the federal government could choose to ignore? It is
the federal government alone that has jurisdiction and the responsibility for
devising and implementing immigration law and policy.

I've already urged President Clinton to do what's necessary to control our
borders and stop the flood of illegal immigrants into California. But
controlling the border alone isn't enough. What the governors of New York,
Florida, Texas, Illinois, Arizona, and New Jersey have joined me in demanding is
that the federal government take responsibility for the cost of federally
mandated services to illegal immigrants.

Under the government's perverse immigration policy, we have a federal Border
Patrol to keep illegal immigrants out, while the federal government compels the
states to provide free health care, education, and other benefits to illegal
immigrants -- a powerful incentive for slipping in.

These mandates should either be abolished or Washington should pay the bill.
President Clinton did not create this problem; he inherited it. But the
spiraling costs of illegal immigration make it imperative that he and Congress
act now to solve it. They could start by attaching an amendment to the crime
bill that acknowledges the federal government's responsibility to pay the costs
of illegal immigrants in state prisons.

And if Congress and the Clinton administration won't act to relieve these
mandates, maybe the courts will. The exploding costs of unfunded mandates have
already driven Florida and California to the drastic step of filing lawsuits
against the federal government for repayment. These suits are just the first
signal of a bipartisan rebellion brewing among the states.

Congress and President Clinton need to do three things:

First, they must control the border and stop massive illegal immigration. That
means major increases in the dedicated but grossly understaffed Border Patrol.

Second, they must repeal the federal mandates that require the state to spend
billions on services for illegal immigrants. What sense does it make to even
have a Border Patrol to enforce a system of elaborate quotas and criteria, and
then undermine it by creating incentives that reward those who succeed in
evading the Border Patrol?

Third, until it has repealed these mandates, the federal government must
reimburse the states in full for performing responsibilities that are
exclusively federal. It is simply not fair that the states are required to spend
for illegal immigrants, and as a result, must deny needed services to their own
legal residents.

In California, we simply can't wait any longer. We need immigration reform, and
we need it now.

The writer, a Republican, is governor of California.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              25 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                       May 8, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S., Mexico Taking Cautious Steps to Address Immigration Issues

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 832 words


For decades Mexico and the United States treated immigration like a dirty little
secret to be ignored in official discussions unless one side or the other had a
complaint. But that has changed in recent months, raising hopes for more
neighborly exchanges.

"In just a short time, our discussions of immigration have become more nuanced,
complex and pragmatic as compared to the highly rhetorical exchanges of the
past," said Doris Meissner, commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Mexican Ambassador Jorge Montano said, "Both governments have worked hard to
develop new communications channels and new rules of the game as far as
immigration is concerned."

These understandings, yet to be fully formalized, will be reviewed at the
Cabinet level for the first time Monday when Secretary of State Warren
Christopher leads a U.S. delegation to Mexico City for an annual consultation on
bilateral relations.

In a series of lower-level meetings over the past 10 months, the Mexican
government has offered to expand joint efforts with U.S. law enforcement
agencies against criminal gangs in the border region, and has suggested it would
undertake cooperative efforts to stop immigrant smuggling.

On an issue of special importance to states such as California that complain
about the budget strains of illegal immigration, Mexico has expanded a program
that allows some Mexican immigrants convicted of crimes in the United States to
serve their sentences in Mexican jails.

Meanwhile, the United States has offered Mexico assurances that, when possible,
it will give notice and solicit Mexican views on major changes in border-control
policies, such as building new fences or deploying new forces to restrict
illegal immigration.

Those might seem modest gestures for two nations sharing a 2,000-mile border
that registers 300 million legal crossings a year. But such efforts would mark a
clear change in the way they deal with each other regarding this massive human
traffic.

"Immigration used to be treated like an irritant in the relationship," said
Demetrios Papademetriou, director of the immigration policy program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "Now both governments are starting
to see it as a factor that has to be addressed constructively because it cuts
across so many other issues."

Immigration was considered such an irritant that both sides agreed not to deal
with it in the negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement. And,
as recently as September, a Border Patrol crackdown in El Paso provoked protests
from the Mexican government.

The traditional U.S. attitude put border controls and immigration policy in the
category of sovereign privileges not subject to consultations.

Mexico's standard rhetoric was to cite its own constitutional guarantees of
freedom of movement, arguing that it could not stop its citizens from migrating.
Moreover, Mexico often complained that the routine exploitation of illegal
immigrants constitutes a human rights abuse.

While not explicitly abandoning any of these positions, Montano said, Mexico in
recent months has proposed an approach with a markedly different tone. "Our idea
is that the border should be the heart of the relationship," the ambassador said
in an interview. "To the extent that we have healthy relations on the border, we
believe the whole bilateral relationship will be healthier."

In explaining what caused the change, Montano noted that starting with the Bush
administration, the United States had expanded contacts with Mexico on a range
of issues and, despite notable ups and downs, this process has continued.

While the diplomatic context created opportunities, Montano said, the political
atmosphere in the United States moved Mexico to take action. Citing an intense
immigration backlash, especially in California, he said, "Immigrants are being
depicted as the 4 million horsemen of the apocalypse responsible for crime,
unemployment, AIDS and everything else that's bad."

As this hostility to immigrants grew, Montano said, Mexico was moved "to seek
the very best communications possible."

Experts are cautious in predicting how far this new dialogue can go.

"I'm skeptical that immigration can be treated the same way as trucking
regulations or customs forms or investment practices," said Wayne A. Cornelius,
director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California
at San Diego.

Citing "the superheated political climate on immigration" in the United States
and the recent political turbulence in Mexico, Cornelius said, "neither side is
in a position to go out on a limb on this issue in the foreseeable future."

But Papademetriou said, "The Mexicans have an interest in helping the U.S. go
after the large-scale alien smuggling operations and that could have a notable
impact on the traffic." Even so, he said, "This is a new relationship and it
will have to proceed in baby steps and with low expectations."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              26 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 14, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Open-Door Policy For Disaster

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 338 words


The only thing more "remarkable" than the hypocrisy that Ron Carlee, director of
Human Services in Arlington, accuses Americans of exhibiting on the illegal
alien question is the incredible naivete of his muddleheaded thinking [front
page, April 25].

The first question we should ask after his comment "I feel very emotional about
anything that smacks of racism," is:

Should a man who is so guided by his emotions be in a position to determine the
spending of our tax dollars?

Granted, a human services position requires a certain amount of empathy with the
needy and disadvantaged, but the bottom line is still a matter of resources --
i.e. dollars and sense. But if this director's wishes were horses, the whole
world would have a free ride on our backs into these wonderful United States.

The second question we should ask is:

What does the discussion about curbing the illegal influx of immigrants have to
do with racism?

To be sure, we are all immigrants or descendants thereof; in fact, I sailed into
New York Harbor with my family as a legal immigrant. For us that meant waiting
five long years until our number came up. Respectful of this country's laws and
feeling indebted for the wonderful opportunity, we never dreamed of asking for
one penny in aid.

I don't think most Americans have any problem with legal immigration. What does
not sit well with many, if not most, citizens, however, is that we are expected
as a matter of course to support those who, by simply walking across our
borders, show defiance for our laws from the outset and, subsequently, an
unbelievable audacity when they apply for every kind of support.

Tolerating this not only makes a mockery out of our immigration policies and
laws but, more fundamental, of the whole way we govern ourselves.

If it is right for one illegal alien to come and remain, it is right for all
citizens of the world. Is America prepared to absorb the major portion of
Asia's, South America's and Africa's populations?

MARGARET FOSS

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              27 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 7, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigration History: Why the Hyperbole?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 407 words


Many of us are appalled by Raul Yzaguirre's brazenly manufactured "historical
facts" to support his hysterical diatribes. In his response to Gov. Pete
Wilson's proposals for curtailing illegal immigration ["California Cleansing,"
op-ed, May 18], National Council of La Raza President Yzaguirre draws some
far-fetched analogies to neo-Nazi violence in Germany and ethnic cleansing in
Bosnia. More to the point, he asserts that Mr. Wilson's proposal to establish
counterfeit-proof identification for job and government benefit applicants
reminds him of when he "had to carry such a card" as a youth in South Texas. He
is also reminded of Mexican workers being "ruthlessly repatriated" after World
Wars I and II, operations in which "thousands" of Latino citizens were allegedly
deported.

Most illegal immigrants come to the United States from Mexico. Ensuring that
immigration law enforcement does not adversely affect U.S. citizens of Mexican
descent is a legitimate concern. However, in order to make his point, Mr.
Yzaguirre has rewritten American history, and probably his own biography, and
that is not legitimate. I am a 30-year veteran of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and served in the Border Patrol in South Texas when Mr.
Yzaguirre was a young man there. I can say with authority that no civilian
citizen of the United States in South Texas (or anywhere else) was required to
carry any form of identification for any reason.

The realities of the repatriation programs for undocumented workers after the
world wars do not comport with Mr. Yzaguirre's theory of immigration history as
one of welcoming illegals when the economy is strong and booting them out when
the economy goes sour. Although the wars created worker shortages, illegal
immigrants were not "welcomed" by the federal government. Immigration
restrictions were poorly enforced in wartime because many immigration officers
were called to military service and the wartime priority was to keep out spies
and saboteurs, not seasonal farm workers. Also, despite allegations that some of
the workers sent back had claims to U.S. citizenship, few cases were ever
proven.

Most of what Gov. Wilson proposes is already the law in most democratic
countries. Calling up images of neo-Nazi Germany and a disfigured rendition of
our own history is a poor alternative to rational discussion of the pros and
cons of those proposals.


JAMES R. DORCY

Fairfax

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              28 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 12, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

A Visa Denied, a Family Divided;
Smuggler Rule Blocks Salvadoran Woman's Return to United States

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 1413 words


With his young wife now a certified smuggler of human cargo and a persona non
grata in this country, Daniel Roque brought two of his children from El Salvador
last week to the house he owns in Adelphi, a suddenly single parent and legal
resident whose life has been undone by a two-word change in federal law.

Behind the family's predicament was an aggressive and apparently unique
enforcement of this immigration law by U.S. consular officials in El Salvador,
who in January classified Ana Gladys Roque as a smuggler after she told them
that her then 3-year-old daughter was with her when she crossed the U.S.-Mexico
border in 1984.

She was snared by a law that originally targeted smugglers who made a living
transporting undocumented people. When the "for gain" provision was removed in
1990, its reach expanded to include even those who helped relatives enter the
United States illegally. Although it applies to all who seek immigrant visas at
U.S. embassies and consulates, the American Immigration Lawyers Association
warned earlier this year that it was being enforced disproportionately against
Salvadorans.

A State Department spokesman said the policy of asking specifically how family
members migrated was suspended in El Salvador earlier this year when consular
officials realized that other foreign posts were not as aggressive in their
interviews with visa applicants. But figures provided by the State Department
show that Salvadorans were disproportionately denied visas while the policy was
in place, and the difference has concerned immigration lawyers and other
advocates.

For Roque, 33, these broad issues will yield to the more mundane task of finding
after-school care for two of his children while he works at Tony's Auto Service
in Alexandria. And then there is concern for his 31-year-old wife, Ana Gladys,
herself a newly single parent confined for the foreseeable future to San
Salvador and responsible for rearing the couple's American-born and youngest
son. A 3-year-old, he is too young to be away from his mother.

Although acknowledging that he and his wife came over illegally in the mid-1980s
and that many will not view their case with sympathy, Roque questioned the
wisdom of a statute that granted him a visa but also separated his children from
their mother and him from his wife. Immigrants who come to this country
illegally can apply for visas once they are here, but the visas must be issued
outside the United States. Most immigrants go home to complete the process.

"To me the law is unjust because it doesn't take into account family relations.
It doesn't matter that it separates families," Roque said.

A target of section 212(a)(6)(e) of the Immigration Act of 1990, Ana Gladys
Roque was denied an immigrant visa at the last stage of a five-year application
because she admitted, in a January interview with a consular official at the
U.S. Embassy in San Salvador, that she had in effect paid to have someone bring
her daughter into the United States.

Under the law's broader scope, thousands of other immigrants -- including
Salvadorans who throughout the civil war in the 1980s helped relatives cross
illegally into the United States -- can be classified as smugglers. Figures
provided by the State Department bear out advocates' contention that Salvadorans
were being disproportionately affected by the change.

From Oct. 1, 1992, to July 31, 1993, a period that covered the Roques'
application, 131 applicants worldwide were refused visas under the smuggling
provision, 55 of those in El Salvador. That is more than the combined total for
Mexico and the Dominican Republic, which in 1992 ranked first and fourth in the
number of immigrant visas issued and which also are principal sources of illegal
workers. (Salvador ranked eighth, with 20,994 in fiscal year 1992.)

Local immigration lawyers said the number of cases in El Salvador, although low
in comparison with the total number of visas issued, is deceiving because other
family members often are affected when the principal applicant is denied a visa.
There is one other case in Maryland in which the father was refused a visa at
the final interview, a ruling that meant he and his family of five, including
children in college and high school, could not leave El Salvador.

The State Department spokesman said the comparatively high numbers out of El
Salvador are the result of a more aggressive interpretation of the statute. In
instances in which families did not travel to the United States together, as was
the case with the Roques, consular officials conducting the final interview
asked the applicants how other family members had made the trip.

"The woman asked my wife, 'Who brought the girl?' and she said, 'I did,' Daniel
Roque said, referring to the interview with the consular official in El
Salvador. " 'Did you pay?' " Roque said the official asked, an apparent
reference to fees paid to smugglers.

When his wife answered yes, Roque said, the interview was cut off, and he and
his wife were told to return at a later date. When Roque inquired a week later,
he was told that immigrant visas would be issued to him and the daughter who was
smuggled but that his wife would not get one because she smuggled the girl and
therefore had become a "trafficker of illegals."

The State Department official said there was nothing "overzealous or improper"
in the questioning of the applicants or any "pattern of abuse" on the part of
consular officials. If there had been, the official said, the number of visas
rejected would have been much greater because Salvadorans are known to rely more
than other immigrants on coyotes, as smugglers are known, because they are
farther from the border and often require such "experts."

Nevertheless, the U.S. consul in El Salvador stopped asking the specific
question when it realized, through word of mouth, that other foreign posts were
not being as aggressive. "They felt that maybe if nobody else was asking that
question routinely . . . maybe they were being too rigorous," the State
Department official said.

The reversal illustrates the discretionary powers available to consular
officials and also creates a different problem, said Dan Stein, whose Federation
for American Immigration Reform favors restrictions on immigration. Although the
question on smuggling is part of the questionnaire all applicants must complete,
Stein said there is a danger if people learn that it is not being enforced. "The
important thing is to ensure that there is equal enforcement, that the policy is
made public and that the people are put on notice," Stein said. "The problem is
if it's selectively enforced."

The law was changed to make it easier to punish smugglers, who in some instances
had evaded prosecution because proving that the enterprise was "for gain" was
difficult. Applicants who are denied immigrant visas under the provision can ask
for a waiver if the person they smuggled is a spouse, parent, son or daughter.

But that does not apply in the Roques' case because Daniel Roque's was an
employment immigrant visa -- he was sponsored by Tony's Auto Service -- and
under the law that does not qualify for a waiver. The State Department said
three waivers have been granted in El Salvador out of the 55, an indication that
many are ineligible.

Immigration lawyers said what happened to the Roques probably will not strike
many people as unjust or unfair because they broke the law by entering the
country illegally to begin with. Some said that in the current political
climate, where measures against illegal immigrants are gaining momentum, such
cases will not strike a popular chord.

But Laurence F. Johnson, the immigration lawyer who represents the Roques, said
people who fled civil strife in El Salvador deserve better, especially because
post-war investigations have proved that their fears were well founded. As a
resident, Daniel Roque can now sponsor his wife, but that process will take at
least two years, and there are no guarantees.

"It's true that I came here illegally. That's definitely true," said Roque, who
has written letters appealing for help to Maryland officials and even Hillary
Clinton. "But I came here illegally because the conditions that existed were not
good for a family. I was a 23-year-old man, and I was in danger.

"Here in the United States I have not been a public burden. I have worked from
the beginning. I have paid taxes, and I can prove it."


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DANIEL ROQUE SITS WITH HIS SON DANIEL IN THEIR HOME IN ADELPHI.

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              29 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 6, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Stops Ship Carrying 352 Haitians In Miami as Detainees Continue Protest

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 5


An aging wooden freighter carrying 352 Haitians dressed in their best clothes
ghosted almost into downtown Miami at dawn today before the Coast Guard
intercepted it and immigration officers led away its occupants.

As U.S. authorities boarded the 75-foot vessel, believed to carry the largest
number of illegal Haitian aliens ever to reach U.S. shores, about 160 of their
compatriots held for months at Krome Avenue Detention Center here were beginning
the sixth day of a hunger strike.

The strikers are protesting preferred treatment given Cuban refugees, who unlike
the Haitians are seen not as undesirable aliens escaping economic deprivation
but as heroes making a fool of Fidel Castro.

Actual and perceived inequities between the handling of Cuban and Haitian
refugees, and the possibility that on Inauguration Day tens of thousands of
Haitians might set sail for South Florida, almost surely will be among the first
and most difficult of President-elect Clinton's foreign policy challenges.

Clinton met with his foreign policy advisers in Little Rock, Ark., yesterday to
discuss his Haiti policy, with transition officials indicating that he likely
will lay out his intentions before he is sworn in on Jan. 20. An announcement
could come this week.

Clinton aides said his overall goal is to set up an orderly process for
reviewing asylum requests as well as the eventual restoration of democracy in
Haiti.

"This situation is really messed up," said Olden Polynice, a 7-foot Haitian-born
center for the Detroit Pistons. He stood in a steady downpour outside Krome
today, seeking relief for his countrymen, who are Creole-speaking blacks most
often desperately poor and uneducated.

"They're treating one group one way and another group another way," Polynice
said. "A Cuban guy hijacked a plane, and he's a hero. That other guy, Orestes
Lorenzo, he's on Larry King and Jay Leno. How about the people who risk their
lives on 50-foot boats? Why aren't they on Larry King?"

Last month, Lorenzo, a former major in the Cuban military who had defected to
the United States in a MiG-23, made a daring flight to Cuba to whisk away his
wife and two young sons in a small plane. U.S. officials did not detain the
family.

Ten days later, a Cuban pilot and his passengers diverted a Cuban commercial
airliner from Havana to Miami. The 48 defectors were held overnight at Krome and
released. None has been charged with a crime.

U.S. immigration officials said the Haitians at Krome are being held as their
claims for political asylum are reviewed. The 352 detained today are likely to
be sent to Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) detention centers in
Texas and Louisiana.

Discussing the disparity in official U.S. treatment of Cubans and Haitians, INS
officials cite the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, under which those fleeing
Castro's communist island are eligible immediately for political asylum.

The Bush administration has maintained that most people fleeing Haiti are
economic refugees.

The Haitians assert that they too are fleeing state-sanctioned terrorism and the
dictatorship of brutal military leaders, who overthrew the elected government of
Jean-Bertrand Aristide Sept. 30, 1991.

"Everybody always says the Haitians are economic refugees, but that's never
quite true. . . . In the last year or so, the economic argument really falls to
pieces," said Steven Forester, supervising attorney at the Haitian Refugee
Center here. "Haiti is now a very, very politicized place. These people are
fleeing political repression."

The Haitians certainly lack the political clout wielded here by Cuban exiles,
whose power base includes two members of Congress, well-funded political action
committees and a score of local officials.

Last year, the Coast Guard intercepted 31,401 people fleeing Haiti, and about
11,000 were granted temporary political asylum. Now, however, government policy
is to intercept the Haitians at sea and return them immediately to
Port-au-Prince, a policy criticized as cruel and racist by Haitian advocates.

Coast Guard officials said today that the Haitians arriving in their good
clothes probably hoped to jump ship at the Miami River or the Port of Miami. The
freighter was running without lights and attempted to ignore Coast Guard orders.

"Is this beginning of a mass exodus?" Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Jim Howe asked. "We
just don't know."

Staff writer Dan Balz in Little Rock and special correspondent Anne Day in Miami
contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HAITIANS SURVEY MIAMI PORT FROM WOODEN FREIGHTER INTERCEPTED BY
COAST GUARD. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              30 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 8, 1993, Monday, Final Edition
                              CORRECTION APPENDED

The Man Who Set the Nanny Trap;
Sen. Alan Simpson on the Law That's Rocked the Nation

Lloyd Grove, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 946 words


Rarely has a piece of legislation wreaked such social and political mayhem.
Seldom has so much raw fear infected the solid citizenry.

"Good!" said Sen. Alan Simpson (R-Wyo.), when asked about all those jangling
nerves among the two-income-with-kids households of yuppiedom. "I'm glad they're
nervous, because they're breaking the law."

He's not talking about the Law of Unintended Consequences -- which is easily the
country's most powerful code, on or off the books -- but, rather, the
Immigration Reform and Control Act, signed by President Reagan in November 1986
after Simpson and various Capitol Hill colleagues toiled for years to enact it.

"We wanted to get rid of the hypocrisy," Simpson recalled during a weekend phone
interview, referring to a provision in the act -- nicknamed "Simpson-Mazzoli"
for its principal authors, the senator and Rep. Romano L. Mazzoli (D-Ky.) --
that makes it a crime to hire someone living in this country without benefit of
papers.

Someone, say, like a babysitter.

Who'd have thought that such a reasonable-sounding provision would inflict so
much psychic damage on the body politic? That not one but two candidates for
United States attorney general, each potentially the first woman to run the
Justice Department, would be rudely impaled on the stakes of their illegal
babysitters? That, to avoid such crises in the future, it might be advisable for
nannies to undergo Senate confirmation?

At the same time, a new and troubling question is echoing across the land,
creating a novel litmus test for high government service: Are you now, or have
you ever been, the employer of an undocumented alien?

It was asked of every public official who came within microphone range
yesterday, threatening to make the '50s-era Black List look like a dance card.

Simpson, however, has no apologies.

"We held many hearings on that, but there was always a unique group of people
who'd say, 'Now, surely, senator, your bill does not apply to [hiring] one
person, does it?' " recalled Simpson, an erstwhile country lawyer who is never
happier than when he's playing his accustomed role at the center of some
brouhaha. "They were always saying, 'Let's make it apply to two or more people,'
and we'd say, 'Why?' And they'd say, 'Well, of course, human rights!' They
wanted off the hook.

"I remember one time in some salon, where they were spilling white wine all over
my shoes, I finally said, 'And what do you pay the woman out there in the
kitchen?' And there was a deathly pall. And I said, 'It looks to me like, while
you're giving me lectures about this bill, you have this woman getting $ 100 a
week and a day off every other Thursday, who looks like she's been on some sort
of crash diet.' "

Take that, liberal-hypocrite white-wine-spilling salon-lizards!

Still, the tall, lean westerner is not so hard-hearted as to lack all sympathy
for people who sip such wine in such salons.

"This is really a great tragedy," Simpson said about Kimba Wood, the latest
victim of the babysitter craze, following Zoe Baird. "This woman really did
everything that was required, and did it beautifully, as I read her statement.
And the terrible part about this is that this was before the immigration law.
It's very simple. Before we changed it, it was legal to hire an illegal, and
illegal for the illegal to work. It was extraordinary."

Has Simpson himself ever been in that situation, illegal alien-wise?

"Not to my knowledge -- and don't think they [the press] weren't looking for
it!"

It's all in a day's work for Simpson, who since his election to the Senate in
1978 (when he followed his father Milward to the upper chamber) has immersed
himself in one controversy after another -- most memorably the 1991 Judiciary
Committee hearings that pitted Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas against law
professor Anita Hill.  In that scrape, in which he defended Thomas and savaged
Hill, Simpson tangled with all manner of women's groups, to say nothing of his
famous shouting match in the parking lot with public radio reporter Nina
Totenberg.

Simpson's immigration act co-author, Mazzoli, has attracted far less lightning,
and did not return phone calls to his Northern Virginia home. "We have a lot of
wonderful orators here," he once said, clearly excluding himself. "But ...
sometimes those gray drudges can carry the day." The Louisville, Ky., native,
who was elected to the House in 1970, has established himself securely in the
"gray drudge" category, championing immigration law reform athwart tenacious
opposition that finally yielded in 1986.

While Simpson-Mazzoli has had its impact -- just ask Baird and Wood -- it has
yet to live up to its advance billing of discouraging illegal immigration.
According to experts quoted yesterday by the Los Angeles Times, the number of
illegal workers in the United States, estimated at 3 million, is still growing
at an annual rate of 100,000 to 300,000 -- no better than before the law was
enacted. "The practical effect is we'll still have as much illegal household
help," immigration lawyer Carl Shusterman told the Times, "but we won't try to
make them legal."

Simpson, meanwhile, said of Kimba Wood, "I honestly think she could have
explained herself beautifully. I certainly think that, as a sponsor of the bill,
if it is just as she has said, I would have been there for her and tried to
assist her... .

"But this, too, shall pass. There's only one game in town now. No more flipping
the searchlight into George Bush's mush. No more saying this would have never
happened if it hadn't been for Bush. It's Total Responsibility Time."

Leave it to Simpson to tell que' hora es.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: A Style article yesterday incorrectly summarized a provision of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. Under the law, hiring an illegal
immigrant is a civil violation, not a crime.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SEN. ALAN SIMPSON, LEFT, AND REP. ROMANO MAZZOLI, AUTHORS OF THE
IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT. TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              31 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  February 10, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

Update;
Finding a Legal Nanny

Sally Squires, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE B5; STYLE PLUS

LENGTH: 822 words


As the recent Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood difficulties illustrate, finding a nanny
who not only cares for your child, but also is legal to work, can be difficult.

Part of the complexity stems from IRCA -- the Immigration Reform and Control Act
-- passed in 1986. IRCA applies to all employers in the United States, requiring
them to hire only those legally authorized to work.

But for those trying to do the right thing by hiring legal workers, the
technicalities can be confusing at best. For instance, so-called "green" cards
no longer are green. There are 16 different versions of Social Security cards,
and there is a little-known anti-discrimination amendment, section four of IRCA,
that can leave employers feeling caught in a Catch-22.

Section four is designed to protect those who may appear or sound "foreign," but
in fact are legal to work in the United States. Several readers -- including
Cecilia Munoz, senior immigration policy analyst of National Council of La Raza,
a Hispanic civil rights organization based in the District -- have expressed
concern that in the quest to hire legal employees, employers will inadvertently
discriminate against perfectly legal workers who speak with an accent, appear to
be foreign-born, or have a foreign-sounding surname.

Technically, the anti-discrimination section of IRCA applies only to those
employing four or more workers, usually not the average family seeking in-home
child-care for their offspring, says William Ho-Gonzalez, special counsel for
immigration-related unfair employment practices at the Department of Justice.

But by asking for specific documents, such as a green card, families can
"violate the spirit of the law," Ho-Gonzalez says, "even though they would not
be subject to prosecution by our office."

What gets confusing is understanding which documents can be used to show work
authorization. "The green card is not the only one," Munoz says. "There are over
a dozen documents that establish work authorizations."

One of the simplest means to identify an authorized worker is by looking at
either a valid driver's license or state ID card with photo or description plus
an unrestricted Social Security card. Any candidate who can supply these
documents "has fulfilled all the requirements for verifying work authorization,"
Ho-Gonzalez says.

Prospective employees who can show one of the following documents also are legal
to employ, according to the Department of Justice:

U.S. passport;

Unexpired foreign passport with I-551 stamp or with I-94 form with the words
"Employment Authorized";

Certificate of U.S. Citizenship (N-560 or N-561);

Alien Registration Receipt Card or Resident Alien Card with photo (I-151 or
I-551);

Temporary Resident Card (I-688);

INS Work Permit (I-688A or I-688B);

Unexpired Refugee Travel Document (I-571);

Unexpired Re-entry Permit (I-327).

In addition, candidates for a position may verify their identify by producing
such documents as a school ID, U.S. military ID or draft card, Federal, state or
local government ID with photo or description, Canadian driver's license, Native
American Tribal ID or a voter's registration card.

Then, if they also can produce one of the following for work authorization, they
can be legally employed: Social Security card (unless stamped not valid for
employment); U.S. birth certificate (including Puerto Rico, Guam and U.S.
Territories); Certification of Birth Abroad of U.S. Citizen (FS-545 or DS-1350);
document from INS with words "Employment Authorized," U.S. Citizen ID (I-197);
Resident Citizen Card (I-179) or a Native American Tribal ID.

"The key," says Munoz, "is never to make assumptions. You can have an Irish
person or a Canadian person who looks so American and turns out to be an
undocumented worker, or you can have someone named Maria Hernandez, with dark
skin and dark hair, whose family has lived in the United States for six
generations. The important thing is to treat everyone in the same way."

More questions? Call the Office of Special Counsel at the Justice Department.
Locally, phone 202-616-5594, or call the toll-free number, 1-800-255-7688. You
also can write to the Special Counsel at the U.S. Department of Justice, P.O.
Box 27728, Washington, D.C. 20038-7728.

Additional information also is available from the Handbook for Employers,
published by the Internal Revenue Service and available from the IRS, the
Justice department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (write to the
Employer and Labor Relations Office at the INS, 4420 N. Fairfax Drive,
Arlington, Va. 22203). This 36-page booklet provides I-9 forms (which can be
filled out by the new employee after being hired) for verification of employment
eligibility. It also shows pictures of sample documents ranging from state ID
cards and driver's licenses to various forms of the resident alien card,
employment authorization cards and other documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              32 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 12, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Welcome to the Child Care Crisis

JUDY MANN

SECTION: METRO; PAGE E3; JUDY MANN

LENGTH: 774 words


Somebody once told me that child care will never be an important issue until it
affects men. Well, that's finally happened. No less than the president has just
found out that for many families, child care is as hot a button as health care
is.

With two prospective attorneys general shot down over their child-care
arrangements, the Clinton administration is now asking every potential appointee
subject to Senate confirmation whether he or she has ever hired an illegal
immigrant or failed to pay the proper taxes for domestic workers. The casualty
list is growing, and we can expect a steady dribble of stories about people
being dropped from consideration because they had run an off-the-books operation
to run their household.

And we will continue to miss the point of what's important here, and that is
that we have a horrendous child-care crisis in this country that cuts across
lines of class, race and sex -- and country of origin.

Unlike most of our trading partners, the United States does not guarantee its
mothers paid leave when they give birth. It has taken a nasty 10-year battle to
get a Family and Medical Leave Act passed, and that provides only unpaid leave
for a fraction of the work force.

So let's stop sniping at well-meaning people who are doing the best they can for
their families and their employers within a society that is more responsive to
the habitat needs of the northern spotted owl than the child-care needs of
American families.

President Clinton has an opportunity to turn the focus from the small-minded and
unimportant to the large and significant by telling the American people that
what has happened has brought our child-care crisis into sharp relief -- as a
complex problem that directly or indirectly affects everyone. All of us pay a
price when children are warehoused and neglected and grow up to be unproductive,
illiterate or even criminals. And those who think that child-care shortages are
a well-deserved plague on the Yuppie house had better think again. Those same
dependent care workers are already in short supply to care for our parents, and
perhaps someday ourselves.

As a first step, Clinton should appoint an interagency commission with
representatives from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the
Departments of Labor, Education and Health and Human Services, including the
Social Security Administration, to examine the impact of federal regulations on
dependent care. The mission of this task force should be to find ways to enhance
the available labor pool, professionalize it and make sure that care providers
receive the benefits to which they are entitled.

"Overall, this is an opportunity to get a better awareness in the public about
the problems of finding child care," says Nancy Duff Campbell of the National
Women's Law Center. "The response that has come out from the public about this
issue has made it clear that these problems about finding adequate care are
difficult for everyone." But, she cautioned, "we shouldn't rush into changing
laws."

The law requiring employers to pay Social Security taxes on employees who earn
more than $ 50 a quarter was enacted in 1950. At that time, that was the amount
a worker had to earn for that quarter to count toward the 10 years of work he
needed to qualify for Social Security benefits when he retired. Today, a worker
has to earn $ 590 a quarter for the quarter to count, but the old $ 50 threshold
for employers has not been changed.  While there is a proposal to increase this
threshold to $ 300, Campbell cautions that it might have a negative impact on
low-income workers.

Judith Lichtman of the Women's Legal Defense Fund also calls for "some careful
thinking. We are not even carefully diagnosing the problem, let alone coming up
with creative solutions. [The] Family and Medical Leave [Act], as important as
it is, is only a slice of the solutions that need to be in place to help working
families and make us competitive with the industrialized nations that have
national policies that allow families to be both responsible workers and
responsible family members.

"The whole issue of family care, we give lip service to it, but we don't really
do anything. We fool around at the edges talking about whether people hire
undocumented workers, which is beside the point in terms of finding solutions."

"At some point we are going to have to take it [child care] as seriously as we
take the process of finding solutions to the health-care crisis," says Helen
Blank of the Children's Defense Fund.

Now that it's become a man's issue, President Clinton ought to make that happen.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              33 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 12, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

AIDS and Immigration

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A26

LENGTH: 376 words


THE WHITE House has confirmed President Clinton's intention to honor a campaign
pledge to "lift the current ban on travel and immigration to the United States
by foreign nationals with HIV." This policy was initiated by Congress in 1987.
The Senate voted for it 96-0, and the House accepted the provision without a
vote. It was the first time Congress, and not public health authorities, had
designated a disease for exclusion. Doctors protested that the ban was
unnecessary from a public health point of view.

The entire list of excludable diseases is, in fact, an anachronism. People with
five different kinds of venereal disease, leprosy, tuberculosis and AIDS are
barred from the United States. But scientists say that of these only TB --
because it is so easily spread -- should be grounds for exclusion. By 1990,
Congress had had second thoughts about the wisdom of the legislated ban and
repealed it, charging the secretary of health and human services with reviewing
the entire list of excludable diseases. In January 1991 Secretary Louis Sullivan
recommended that all afflictions except TB be removed from the list, but that
policy has never been put into effect. This is the change the Clinton
administration has promised.

It is only right that AIDS be treated the same as any other illness in terms of
the immigration laws. If the Public Health Service says it is not a danger to
the general population, it should not be grounds for exclusion. But there is
another aspect of immigration policy that must be taken into consideration too.
Caring for AIDS patients is extremely expensive, and treatment is increasingly a
public, not a private, cost. Visitors with AIDS are no problem and are already
admitted on temporary special visas. But immigrants, refugees and those granted
political asylum become a permanent part of the American community and must be
cared for. If, for example, the hundreds of HIV-positive Haitians now being
detained at Guantanamo Bay are to be admitted, steps must be taken by the
federal government -- not the City of Miami, Dade County or the State of
Florida, where they will probably reside -- to provide for them. An assumption
of this responsibility should be part of the president's new initiative.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              34 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 18, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

CIA Suspect Left Trail of Conflicting Personal Data

Robert O'Harrow Jr., Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 1254 words


Mir Aimal Kansi apparently used a different name on a passport and visa when he
came to the United States, beginning a nearly two-year stay during which he took
advantage of an unwieldy immigration system, federal officials said yesterday.

Kansi, the Pakistani immigrant being sought in the shootings last month outside
the CIA headquarters, passed through immigration checkpoints at John F. Kennedy
International Airport in New York with a passport and business visa listing his
name as Mir Aimal Kasi, according to Duke Austin, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Kansi was given a month to stay in the
country from the time he arrived on Feb. 27, 1991, Austin said.

Three weeks later, Kansi went to the Pakistani Embassy in Washington saying he
had lost his passport and was issued a new one with his correct name. A year
later, he applied for asylum and a work permit at the Arlington office of the
INS.

Immigration officials said the asylum application cemented his stay in the
United States because federal law prohibits them from deporting immigrants whose
requests are pending.

According to law enforcement sources, Kansi said he feared he would be killed
for political reasons if he had to return to Pakistan, the country to which he
fled the day after the Jan. 25 shootings.

Kansi's ability to maneuver through the immigration system underscores how easy
it is for millions of people to enter the United States, including terrorists
and criminals.

The immigration process placed no barrier in Kansi's way as he got a driver's
license, landed a job as a courier and bought an assault rifle.

"You don't know who's out there," said Cynthia Booth, a special agent with the
FBI who has worked with counter-terrorism operations.

Kansi's application for asylum, officials said, highlights a legal provision
that allows foreigners to stay in the United States for years as they go through
the application and appeals process, said Richard Day, chief minority counsel
for the Senate subcommittee on immigrant and refugee affairs.

"That's a weakness in the system. . . . That's a gap. They have all these
rights," said Day, who works with Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.).

Critics point to a lack of coordination among the three agencies charged with
screening foreigners: the State Department, the INS and the Customs Service. But
there was apparently nothing to alert any of those agencies to any problem with
admitting Kansi to this country.

An indictment has charged Kansi with capital murder, which carries the death
penalty as the maximum sentence; first-degree murder; three counts of malicious
wounding; and five weapon charges. The shootings outside the CIA's Langley
headquarters left two men dead and three wounded.

He also faces federal charges of fleeing prosecution. Law enforcement officials
say they believe Kansi now may be in Afghanistan, Iran or the mountains around
his home town of Quetta, Pakistan, where he was last seen.

Investigators say the discrepancy in Kansi's name hampered their efforts to
determine who he was and how he came to the United States.

It was only after INS officials sifted through their computer records that
investigators finally were able to begin unraveling Kansi's confusing paper
trail, which includes different birth dates and at least two Social Security
numbers in the United States.

The tracking of Kansi's stay in the United States begins with his passport and
visa.

Under immigration law, foreigners who enter this country must have a passport
and show that they intend to return home after a limited visit. INS officials
said "Mir Aimal Kasi" apparently was issued a business visa in Karachi,
Pakistan, on Dec. 4, 1990, and presented it in New York.

According to the State Department, business visas are relatively easy to obtain
for people who say they want to come to the United States for sales meetings,
business conferences or other work-related matters. State Department officials
in Pakistan do not keep visa records for more than a year and could not say
whether Kansi ever visited them or received legitimate documents.

In many cases, because of the large number of people seeking visas, reviews of
their requests are perfunctory, a State Department official said. "There are
times that we all look at it and say, 'Hey, we wish it were tighter,' " the
official said.

A State Department official said yesterday that it also is possible that Kansi
obtained one of the counterfeit visas widely available in Pakistan and other
countries.

Once he arrived at the airport in New York, Kansi, like all other travelers, had
to pass inspection by INS agents, who examine passports and visas. Each
foreigner also is required to turn in an entry card that states the traveler's
name, address and travel plans.

There is no record that Kansi turned in an entry card, but INS officials turned
up a card for "Kasi." INS officials said they are convinced "Kasi" and Kansi are
the same man.

On March 18, 1991, three weeks after his arrival, Kansi went to the Pakistani
Embassy in Washington and obtained his new passport by showing his national
identification card, which is required for all Pakistanis.

On that card, his name was listed as Kansi and his birth date was Oct. 2, 1964,
authorities said.

When he arrived as Kasi, he listed his birth date as Oct. 22.

About a year later, in February 1992, he filed an asylum application at the
Arlington office of the INS, using the name Kansi. In that application, he said
he arrived in the United States on March 3, 1991, without going through INS
inspections. He also listed relatives named Kasi on the application.

His request for asylum because of political persecution apparently contained
scant detail. Kansi comes from a wealthy family and had a comfortable life in
Quetta, according to interviews with his relatives and friends there. He
inherited about $ 100,000 after his father's death and has a master's degree in
English. He had been involved with a militant nationalist movement opposed to
U.S. policies in Pakistan.

Austin, of the INS, said his agency's backlog in dealing with the more than
100,000 asylum applications filed annually permitted Kansi to abuse the process.
In Kansi's case, a hearing date hadn't been set when the shooting occurred, even
though nearly a year had passed since he filed his request.

"Anybody can file one of these asylum applications," Austin said. "There was no
way to get him out of here."

At the time he filed for asylum, Kansi also obtained a renewable work permit
from the INS. The permit, valid for a year, expired Friday.

Although it is unclear what jobs Kansi held immediately after he arrived, he
began working more than five months ago for Excel Courier Inc. in Herndon.  He
was able to get the job after showing a Virginia driver's license and proof of
insurance. He gave an address in Herndon, company officials said.

Kansi later legally used the driver's license as identification when he bought
the AK-47-type assault rifle used in the shootings. A day later, he boarded a
plane at JFK Airport and headed to Karachi and then to his home town.

His return to Pakistan has raised a question about how he got back into his
country. Kansi's passport expired in March 1992 and has not been renewed,
Pakistani officials said.

"I think he has two or three passports; it looks that way to me," said Malik
Zahoor, press attache for the Pakistani Embassy.

Staff writer Patricia Davis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              35 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 19, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Reasons for HIV Exclusion

Alan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 680 words


The Clinton administration has informed Americans that it will propose dropping
HIV infection from the list of diseases that exclude affected aliens from
entering the United States. In what seems to be a near weekly occurrence since
Inauguration Day, the proposal caused a tenfold increase in the volume of
constituent calls and a stream of faxes to our Capitol Hill offices.

The Senate responded to the Clinton proposal yesterday by passing, 76 to 23,
legislation to ensure that aliens infected with the AIDS virus will not be
admitted as permanent residents of the United States. The legislation also
provides that the restriction may be waived for visitors who come to visit
relatives, to seek medical treatment, to attend conferences or for other
short-term purposes. In addition, there has always been in the law a waiver for
immigrants who come to join close family members living in this country.

For generations now, U.S. immigration laws have excluded from admission all
persons who have contagious diseases that constitute a threat to the public
health and welfare. In writing immigration reform provisions in 1990, I sought
the assistance of the Public Health Service in drafting suitable language to
define the health-related exclusions. PHS proposed, and we then inserted, the
term "communicable disease of public health significance" to properly describe
the illnesses that would prevent an alien from entering this country. That
language was then enacted into law in the Immigration Act of 1990.

At the time of passage of the bill, Congress made it clear that we intended to
exclude aliens with diseases that would pose "a public health risk." The
secretary of health and human services was to write the rules to implement the
health-related grounds of exclusion. Please recall that HIV infection had been
on the list of excludable diseases under the old definition, "dangerous
contagious diseases," and it remains on the list after the language change in
the 1990 act.

The recent proposal to remove HIV infection from the list of excludable diseases
raises two sincere questions: (1) Is HIV infection a "communicable disease of
public health significance"? and (2) Is a person who will develop AIDS "likely
to become a public charge"?

Without any doubt, AIDS is a deadly serious plague that threatens the public
health in America, as elsewhere in the world. Nearly 175,000 Americans have
tragically died of AIDS, and it is estimated that 1 million to 1.5 million have
become infected with the virus.

AIDS activists continually remind us of the deadly toll and the costly threat
AIDS poses to our nation, and at their urging federal outlays for AIDS research
are now among the highest provided for any medical cause. Can it rationally be
said that HIV infection is not a disease of "public health significance"?

AIDS is an all-consuming illness that can result in medical costs of $ 100,000
or more for each patient, according to some recent estimates. It seems likely
that many alien HIV-infected persons may well indeed become "public charges"
after their admission to the United States. For this reason, the American
Medical Association has opposed the admission of such persons into the United
States as permanent immigrants.

Let us ask honest and sensible questions: Does the admission of immigrants with
HIV infection create a "public health risk" to the people of the United States.
Are such immigrants likely to become a "public charge" after entering our
country? Until these two issues are resolved, I would certainly counsel against
the striking HIV infection from the list of communicable diseases that are of
public health significance.

The Senate-passed legislation provides for a thorough study by the
administration of the potential health care costs of admitting immigrants
infected with the AIDS virus. The Senate is also to study the issues raised by
these questions before we change our policy. There is much work and education of
the public yet to be done here. Believe it.

The writer is a Republican senator from Wyoming.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              36 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      March 5, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Trade Center Suspect's Alleged Links to N.J. Mosque Disputed

Gustav Niebuhr, Laurie Goodstein, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A16

LENGTH: 1366 words


The arrest of Mohammed A. Salameh yesterday in last week's bombing of the World
Trade Center focused news media attention on a downtown Jersey City mosque and a
fiery Muslim fundamentalist cleric who sometimes preached there.

As yet, authorities have disclosed little about the 26-year-old Salameh other
than to say he worshiped at the mosque, Masjid al-Salam, also attended by Sayyid
A. Nosair, who has been convicted of crimes connected with the killing of Rabbi
Meir Kahane, the right-wing Israeli politician.

Among those who preached at the mosque is Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman, a blind
cleric whose sermons criticizing the West and secular authorities in the Middle
East have won him a vast following in the urban slums of his native Egypt and,
lately, among smaller groups of Muslims in the New York area. Rahman has lived
in New Jersey since 1990, when he entered the country on a tourist visa from
Sudan, despite the fact that U.S. officials long had suspected him of
involvement in terrorism.

A spokeman for the mosque last night vigorously denied any connection between
the mosque and the bombing and expressed anger that "this place of worship is
being invaded by the media." Reading a statment, Mohammed Nagib also said the
bombing suspect -- Salameh -- was not known to worshipers there and that, in any
case, the mosque cannot be responsible for the acts of anyone who does worship
there. Neither the mosque nor Sheik Rahman, he said, is affiliated with any
radical group.

"The media and the FBI," he said, "have apparently found a scapegoat through
which they are covering their failure to find the author of this act. . .  We
hope the authorities find the true criminal."

U.S. immigration officials confirmed yesterday that in January 1991, they sought
to expel Rahman. In an "exclusion hearing" before a federal immigration judge,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service charged that the cleric
misrepresented himself on his 1990 visa application, was a polygamist and had
been convicted and sentenced in Egypt for what the agency called a crime of
"moral turpitude," specifically falsifying a check. But agency officials said
that no action has been taken because Immigration Judge Daniel Meisner has yet
to issue a ruling. "His status is still in question, that's for sure," said
agency spokesman Duke Austin.

In Egypt, Rahman is well known for having been accused of issuing a fatwa, or
religious edict, condoning the assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat,
who was murdered by soldiers in 1981. Although effectively kept under house
arrest for several years, he was acquitted of involvement in the killing at a
trial.

These days, he is regarded as the spiritual leader of the Gama'a Islamiya, an
Egyptian extremist group that has claimed responsibility for a 10-month-old wave
of violence in that country. Daniel Pipes, director of the Foreign Policy
Research Institute, said Rahman's followers both in the United States and Egypt
are more a network than a formal organization, although thousands of persons may
be involved.

Tape-recordings of Rahman's pronouncements -- many of which condemn the
"corrupt" and "immoral" government of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak -- have
been distributed in mosques in Egypt, allegedly inspiring attacks by militant
followers against police officials, tourists, and Coptic Christians.

But a U.S. anti-terrorism official also cautioned that the linkage is not always
as clear as Egyptian authorities contend.

In an interview with Washington Post correspondent Caryle Murphy yesterday in
Cairo, Mubarak said Rahman was "imitating Khomeini," by speaking out against the
government of his native land from abroad. (At the time of the Iranian
revolution, Ayatollah Khomeini lived in France.) Although he said he would not
fear Rahman's return to Egypt, Mubarak said: "You have Omar Abdul Rahman [in the
United States]. You are imitating the French. Keep him there."

Albert Mokhaiber, president of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee,
based in Washington, said: "Even if that person is convicted, even if they are
found to be an Arab or a Muslim, that does not give anybody a license to indict
the entire community. . .  In fact, many Arab Americans have businesses in that
building [World Trade Center] so we are part of that collective pool of
victims."

Mokhaiber said that during the Persian Gulf War, his committee logged a 300
percent increase in hate crimes against Arab Americans. "We fear that kind of
backlash could take place now," he said. His group has asked the FBI to issue a
statement, as was done during the Persian Gulf War, that the Muslim community in
the United States should not be scapegoated.

No one answered the phone yesterday at Rahman's home in New Jersey.

M.T. Mehdi, president of the American Arab and Muslim Council has condemned the
World Trade Center bombing and said he believed Rahman, whom he knows, shares
his views on that subject. Mehdi said he had left a message yesterday on the
sheik's answering machine, asking him to call back if he planned to take a
public position on the bombing that was different from Mehdi's. "His position,
I'm sure, by his silence or not calling me back means that he agrees with my
position in condemning this," Medhi said.

Medhi also defended Rahman as a man of peaceful intent: "The sheik is less of a
terrorist than I am, and I am less of a terrorist than Thomas Jefferson. But
both Jefferson and the sheik have used beautiful, exciting language."

Another of the sheik's followers who frequented the Jersey City mosque also was
Nosair, now serving a seven- to 23-year sentence for crimes related to Kahane's
killing in 1990. But Montasir Zayat, a Cairo attorney who assisted in Nosair's
defense said yesterday that he did not believe Mohammed was connected with
Nosair "because it was determined by the [U.S.] courts that Nosair acted alone."

Attorney William Kunstler, who helped represent Nosair at trial, said: "I was
kind of aghast that anyone would try to make a conspiratorial connection, simply
because [Mohammed and Nosair] both went to the same mosque. Would they do this
if they both went to St. Patrick's Cathedral?"

The mosque, on the third floor of a rundown brick, commercial building over a
Chinese takeout restaurant, draws about 200 worshipers to Friday prayers, said
Joseph Rakowski, president of the Jersey City Council. The building also houses
an Islamic bookstore, and an insurance company and a computer repair store.

"We worry about all of this," said an Egyptian man -- not a Muslim -- behind the
counter of a nearby convenvience store. "Some people don't understand; they get
mad or crazy. Some kids say, 'Ah, Arab people, Saddam,' whatever -- even though
we have nothing to do with it. Why would someone do something crazy like this?
It's not the right way to show people what you want."

"There is no reason for Muslims to do this -- Muslims need Americans to
understand them more than to make enemies," said M. Hussein, who emigrated from
Egypt in 1980 and now works with the hotel workers union in New York. He was
picking up the most recent edition of al-Ahram, the Egyptian newspaper
distributed daily via satellite.

Hussein, who has prayed at the mosque, said: "Some go to pray, some are more
concerned about Middle East problems. Maybe there is disagreement with the U.S.,
but I don't think they reached this point. I don't believe there is any
conspiracy here." Rahman is a religious leader, but holds no sway over people's
lives. "He leads the prayers. After the praying, it's your life. He's not like a
manager at a job."

To make the point that the bombing has no link with Islam as a religion, members
of the Islamic Center of Southern California in Los Angeles faxed The Post
several verses from the Koran, all encouraging the faithful to treat non-Muslims
peacefully and respectfully. One passage, Chapter 41, verse 34, tells believers,
"But [since] good and evil cannot be equal, repel thou [evil] with something
that is better. . . "

Washington Post staff writers Michael Isikoff, Paula Span in Washington and
Caryle Murphy in Cairo contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              37 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 27, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

Nannies for Yuppies

Alvin Snyder

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 836 words


Too bad Judge Stephen G. Breyer didn't know about the U.S. government's "Nannies
for Yuppies" employment agency. If he had, he might have had a better chance of
being the next U.S. Supreme Court Justice. Similarly, if Zoe Baird or Kimba Wood
had known about it, either one of them could have been attorney general, and
Janet Reno would still be in Miami.

While the White House hit team was purging the travel office, no one dared lay a
hand on the government's child care employment agency, which does a land-office
business supplying full-time, tax-exempt babysitters to wealthy Americans.

And who runs this employment agency, you ask? The Immigration and Naturalization
Service of the Justice Department? The Labor Department? Would you believe the
U.S. Information Agency -- which explains America to foreign audiences through
the Voice of America and other programs -- also runs the overseas nanny trade?

Why the USIA? As part of its mandate, it handles educational and cultural
exchanges, although washing dishes and changing diapers would hardly fit into
this category.

According to a former USIA associate director, Ronald Trowbridge, who was close
to the program, "Thousands of people, and I'm talking about high rollers, were
flouting immigration laws by getting child care this way."

The Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 established so-called
J-visas, to enable non-immigrant "bona fide students" to come from abroad to
study here and to participate in cultural and educational activities, to
"increase mutual understanding" between countries. Teachers, research scholars
and others are also included.

And so, oddly enough, are au pairs. In fact, an immigrant does not require
certification from the Labor Department to work full-time in the United States
under a J-visa. And although au pair girls (and they usually are girls), are
permitted to receive wages for babysitting and housecleaning, their "employers"
or "host families" do not need to pay Social Security taxes or fill out IRS W-2
employment forms, which Zoe Baird and Stephen Breyer failed to do.

The real reason the nannies come through the USIA is because sponsoring groups
want it that way. They reap millions by keeping it in an agency that doesn't
want it and monitors the program very loosely. According to the General
Accounting Office, the USIA has not adequately monitored the J-visa program,
including the nannies, their sponsors and host families.

The cultural J-visa also restricts the au pairs to Europe. Moving it to another
visa category and expanding the program to other parts of the world would
provide competition to sponsors, who hired high-priced lobbyists last year to
defeat a bill that would have transferred the au pairs to INS in the Justice
Department, where regulators would likely have killed the program. Fate plays
funny games. Zoe Baird or Kimba Wood could have been in charge of the nannies
for yuppies program.

The USIA processes almost 3,000 au pairs each year to provide child care. They
must be between the ages of 18 and 25 and can stay for 12 months. The system
works this way. There are eight "sponsor" organizations certified by the USIA
that have affiliate offices throughout Europe. Au pair candidates are screened
overseas, and the U.S. sponsor tries to match up the candidate with the right
family, with the USIA overseeing the program. The sponsor is paid by the host
family, which also pays the nanny $ 100 a week plus room and board. Nannies can
work up to 45 hours per week. The Labor Department says a 40-hour week
constitutes full-time employment, and other government officials believe this is
a work program that circumvents immigration regulations.

To USIA's credit, it tried but failed to convince Congress that au pairs should
work less than 40 or 45 hours a week and that a cultural component should be
part of the au pair experience. The USIA rightfully protests that it should not
be in charge of a full-time work program for nannies. The government's foreign
information agency has enough trouble trying to define its mission abroad in a
world devoid of the familiar communist enemy.

Congress has played fast and loose on immigration matters. It also approved
Q-visas several years ago, which enabled thousands of young people from Europe
to work full-time at Disney World. Nannies for hire is also a work program,
feebly wrapped in a cultural package. Those who participate in it should ante up
their taxes, especially the nonprofit, tax-exempt au pair agencies that spend a
lot of their overhead on high-priced lobbyists and national advertising.

Congress doesn't want to touch it. President Clinton has the authority to
conduct the government's foreign exchange activities, and he can put an end to
this hoax by executive order. The writer is a senior fellow of The Annenberg
Washington Program in communications policy studies of Northwestern University
and a former director of Worldwide Television of the U.S. Information Agency.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              38 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 3, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

Cleric Tied to Bomb Suspects Detained;
Egyptian Surrenders in New York Pending INS Deportation Hearing

Michael Isikoff, Malcolm Gladwell, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1168 words


Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric whose followers have been
accused of plotting to blow up the United Nations building, surrendered
yesterday to federal agents outside a Brooklyn mosque, one day after Attorney
General Janet Reno ordered his detention.

After a tense, 20-hour standoff with federal authorities, Abdel Rahman emerged
from the mosque surrounded by dozens of followers chanting in Arabic, "God is
Great." He was quickly taken into custody, and officials said he would remain in
detention at an undisclosed location pending the outcome of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's efforts to deport him.

Abdel Rahman's supporters in Egypt threatened a worldwide bombing campaign in
retaliation, according to Egyptian news reports, and the State Department warned
Americans of possible "strong reactions" from the Islamic world. It said
Americans abroad "should be alert to continuing developments."

A knowledgeable source said yesterday that Reno remanded her previous order not
to arrest the sheik after the department assembled new evidence earlier this
week indicating that Abdel Rahman had a "higher degree of knowledge of some of
the terrorist plots than had been known earlier."

Law enforcement officials said yesterday that the evidence is not strong enough
to charge Abdel Rahman in either the alleged plot to bomb the United Nations and
other Manhattan sites or the World Trade Center bombing Feb. 26. But acting INS
commissioner Chris Sale said last night that the agency formally revoked the
sheik's parole status, which has permitted him to remain free for months while
appealing a deportation order.

The revocation occurred, he said, "based on findings that Abdel Rahman was a
danger to the community and posed a risk of flight."

After consulting with the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan and the FBI, "it
has been determined it is no longer in the public interest for the sheik to
remain at large," Sale said.

The action came amid new information from the State Department that the sheik
had been permitted to enter and leave the country repeatedly in the late 1980s
and recently despite his presence on a department "look-out" list of suspected
terrorists dating to 1987.

A State Department official confirmed that Abdel Rahman actually received three
separate visas after being placed on the look-out list, one more than previously
acknowledged, and had been given a permanent resident "green card" by the INS in
1990.

"This is monumental bureaucratic bungling of the greatest proportions," said
Rep. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), a member of two House subcommittees briefed on
the matter this week by Sherman M. Funk, State Department inspector general.
"It's very difficult to comprehend how this could have happened."

State Department spokesman Michael McCurry said the department "has very
publicly acknowledged significant errors" in handling the sheik's visas.

The detention marked the latest chapter in a controversy dating to 1991 when INS
first sought to rescind Abdel Rahman's "green card" and return him to Egypt on
grounds that he entered the country under false pretenses.

INS charged that the sheik did not disclose on his residence application at John
F. Kennedy International Airport in New York information that would have
disqualified him from entering the country -- that he was a bigamist and had
been convicted of a crime of "moral turpitude," falsifying a check.

Reno's order to detain Rahman, reversing a decision she made last week, follows
a political uproar spurred by charges that the department was permitting a man
accused of inciting numerous terrorist acts to exploit U.S. immigration laws and
remain at large.

But department officials have insisted that Reno did not bow to political
pressure on the matter and instead responded to new evidence that altered her
earlier judgment about sound "law enforcement" reasons for not detaining Abdel
Rahman.

The new information came from documents seized after FBI raids last week at the
sheik's apartment in Jersey City and further debriefing of potential witnesses
who dealt with him. It indicated that Abdel Rahman knew of terrorist acts that
date back several years. "We're talking about a range of things that go back to
Kahane," a reference to the 1990 slaying in New York of militant Rabbi Meir
Kahane, a knowledgeable source said.

The source stressed that this was not "detailed knowledge" but more along the
lines of general statements being made to the sheik about forthcoming acts of
violence to which he would reply with comments such as "Allah be with you,"
thereby appearing to give assent.

The turning point came Wednesday night when FBI agents who had Abdel Rahman
under surveillance reported that a van in which he was riding began taking
evasive maneuvers in an apparent effort to throw the agents off. The next
morning, U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White called Reno and "recommended that the plug
be pulled," the source said, and "the attorney general agreed over the phone."

Before surrendering, the sheik led the early afternoon prayer service at the Abu
Bakr el Seddique mosque, with which he has been affiliated since coming to the
United States.

"He gave a farewell speech," said Jamal Khashoggi Hayat, a Saudi journalist who
attended the services. "He said goodbye. He said we disagree with America, but
we are not conspiring against America. He asked his followers to practice
restraint."

The sheik originally had intended to surrender right after the service to the
INS agents, who along with dozens of New York police officers had barricaded the
street in front of the mosque in anticipation.

It would take more than three hours for the sheik to emerge, however, as his
aides and police quibbled about the circumstances of his surrender. According to
the sheik's aides, they did not want him frisked, wanted him driven -- not flown
by helicopter -- directly to the INS center in Newark, and they wanted an aide
to accompany him. Last evening, authorities said he was not taken to Newark.

"We didn't want our sheik to come out like he was a common criminal," Imam
Ibrahim Abdulah said.

Michael Warren, one of the sheik's lawyers, said the negotiations were intended
"to make sure the sheik is protected and that the worshippers in the mosque are
protected."

Finally, as a light rain fell just after 6 p.m., more than 50 of the sheik's
followers linked hands and formed two lines from the mosque to a firehouse
across the street where INS officials had established a makeshift headquarters.

A few minutes later, the sheik emerged, clad in white with a red kaffiyeh and
walked slowly through the human corridor, as an angry crowd of onlookers behind
police barricades repeatedly yelled "drop dead."

Minutes later, the sheik was bundled into a red van and driven away.

Isikoff reported from Washington and Gladwell from New York. Staff writers Lynne
Duke, R. Jeffrey Smith and Pierre Thomas in Washington contributed to this
report.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, WALKING THROUGH A PHALANX OF FOLLOWERS CHANTING "GOD IS GREAT"
IN ARABIC, SHEIK OMAR ABDEL RAHMAN, IN DARK GLASSES, LEAVES A BROOKLYN MOSQUE
BEFORE SURRENDERING TO IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS WHO HAD REVOKED HIS PAROLE STATUS.
AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              39 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 4, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Why Hold the Sheik?

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 464 words


SHEIK Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind Islamic cleric whose headquarters is in
Jersey City, surrendered to federal immigration authorities Friday and will be
held in custody for the foreseeable future. Is he being treated fairly? Is this
action more than just a political response to the demands of people, including
Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, who want him prosecuted as well as deported? The answer
lies in a crucial distinction between criminal and immigration proceedings.

Sheik Abdel Rahman is suspect for his involvement with two groups of alleged
terrorists: the men who bombed the World Trade Center in February, and the
different cast arrested by the FBI last week and charged with plotting to
assassinate Sen. D'Amato and others and to destroy the United Nations building
and other New York targets. Details of his involvement with these defendants are
not known, but so far Attorney General Janet Reno has said there is not enough
evidence to arrest him in connection with them. So she was wise to refuse the
demands of the senator to take Mr. Abdel Rahman into custody on unsupported
criminal charges.

But that does not mean the government cannot now move to rescind the permission
given him last March to remain at large pending resolution of his immigration
status. According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the cleric was
admitted to the United States on a valid tourist visa and given special
immigrant status and a green card based on his religious position. That special
status was revoked, however, when the INS learned it had been obtained by fraud
-- the applicant had not revealed he was both a bigamist and a convicted check
forger. He has had a hearing, and has been ordered excluded from the United
States. He has been denied political asylum. But he is allowed to remain because
he has appealed all these rulings. The appeals could take years and, because the
INS is short of space and money to hold the hundreds of thousands of aliens in
his status, he has been allowed to live at home. This permission is
discretionary and can be revoked at any time and for any reason. That is what
the government has now done.

Because most aliens awaiting appeals of exclusion or deportation orders are not
confined, an appearance of discrimination is created whenever an individual, or
a group like the Miami Haitians, is kept in custody. That's unfortunate, but the
right response is to reform the immigration appeals system, and in particular
the political asylum system, so that long stays in detention can be avoided. As
for Sheik Abdel Rahman, the Justice Department has every right to revoke his
parole privileges and keep him in custody until his immigration situation is
resolved. Possible criminal prosecution can be assessed in the meantime.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: A recent editorial referred to Sen. Alfonse D'Amato's demand that
Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman be arrested and prosecuted. The senator was speaking
about immigration law violations, not crimes involving terrorism.

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              40 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 9, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Asks Mexico to Accept 659 Chinese Detained at Sea

Ann Devroy, Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 858 words


The Clinton administration last night decided to ask the government of Mexico to
accept 659 Chinese detained at sea by the U.S. Coast Guard and allow the United
Nations to process their asylum claims.

The action comes three weeks after President Clinton announced new efforts to
curb the smuggling of illegal Chinese immigrants into the United States. The
Chinese were detained on three rundown freighters in the Pacific Ocean Tuesday.

The ships, boarded by U.S. authorities in international waters off the Mexican
coast, were moved to an area 70 miles southwest of San Diego while the
administration struggled over what to do with them in line with Clinton's new
policy.

A senior official said an interagency task force last night recommended to
Clinton that Mexico be asked to allow the Chinese on their territory and that
the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees be asked to determine how many, if any,
deserve asylum status.

The recommendation, approved by Clinton in Japan, where he is attending the
economic summit, is aimed at keeping the immigrants out of U.S. territory
because their appeals for political asylum processed here would take longer,
cost taxpayers more in detention expenses and probably be treated more
leniently, officials said.

Since Wednesday morning, when the boarding procedures were complete, officials
in Washington, under the supervision of Vice President Gore in Clinton's
absence, had been "trying to figure out what to do because there are no easy
options." Another official said, "There are complexities because they are not in
our jurisdiction. They are not here yet."

Clinton pledged June 18 to allow the Coast Guard wide leeway to go into
international waters to board ships suspected of carrying illegal Chinese
migrants, and officials said the boarding was the first strong example of that.
He reaffirmed an Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) policy, adopted a
few weeks earlier, calling for mandatory detention of Chinese immigrants
illegally smuggled into the United States by organized crime rings.

The detention, until asylum or deportation decisions are made, is supposed to
deter Chinese migrants from trying to come to the United States, but it occurs
only if they actually land on U.S. territory. In this case, officials are
attempting to avoid having the immigrants treated under U.S. law, which allows,
for example, asylum based on a claim of persecution under China's one-child
population-control policy.

Officials said last night their initial determination is that most of the 659
are connected to the organized crime rings. Among the evidence is the assertion
by the boat captains that they were sailing under the flag of Taiwan when that
country, after a daylong check, could not confirm that. The ships, one official
said, amount to "pirate" ships because they violate international law on country
of registry.

In Los Angeles, Virginia Kice of the regional INS office, said, "Our intent is
to keep them in international waters until a decision can be reached."

The INS estimated in June that 100,000 illegal Chinese immigrants enter the
United States each year, mostly by boat. The issue gained widespread publicity
last month when a freighter carrying illegal Chinese immigrants was grounded in
waters off Queens in New York and several immigrants drowned trying to swim
ashore.

The increase in Chinese taking to sea to reach the United States parallels an
increase in the migrant population worldwide, which last year reached 100
million people, according to a U.N. report. That number included 37 million
people fleeing war, political strife, violence or drought.

The United States is not alone in seeking policies to manage the flow. European
governments, too, have been inundated by migrants from the former Soviet Union
and, more recently, the former Yugoslavia.

Clinton has come under criticism recently for taking months to name a new INS
director and to revise U.S. immigration policy. Earlier, he was sharply
criticized for reversing his campaign stand and continuing the Bush
administration policy of returning Haitians attempting to flee to the United
States by boat.

He announced a new INS director on June 18 and outlined efforts to curb what
officials say is a growing trade in Chinese immigrants by organized crime groups
in China and Taiwan.

The crime rings charge massive fees to the immigrants, effectively requiring
them to be indentured servants in the United States.

U.S. officials said yesterday that the three large freighters boarded this week
did not appear to be part of a coordinated convoy. Almost all the 659 people
aboard the vessels are males and have Chinese passports.

Coast Guard spokesman Tim Sullivan described the migrants as "not in bad
condition." None has needed medical attention, he said.

Two of the ships attempted to evade Coast Guard boarding. One of the ship
captains radioed a U.S. cutter, "I'm going to San Diego. I have food and fuel
and water for three months. See you there." But the ship was stopped and
boarded.

A third ship had lost power and was being towed by a U.S. vessel, Sullivan said.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, COAST GUARD CUTTER TYBEE STANDS BY DISABLED FREIGHTER HAULING
IMMIGRANTS. REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              41 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 11, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition
                              CORRECTION APPENDED

'Other Than a Chinaman'

Jan C. Ting

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 921 words


"Give me your tired, your poor"

-- but, for nearly a century, not your Chinese.

As the Clinton administration confronts the problem of organized smuggling of
Chinese immigrants into the United States, how to deter it and what to do with
those already here, it should recall the unique history of Chinese immigration
to the United States, and the uniquely cruel and discriminatory response of the
U.S. government to Chinese immigration. It's no exaggeration to say that U.S.
immigration law was created for, and is still based upon, the exclusion of
Chinese immigrants.

Significant immigration from China began in the California Gold Rush of 1848.
During and after the Civil War, Chinese immigrants worked to build the
transcontinental railroad. But the completion of the railroad in 1869, the
consequent arrival of European immigrants in California, the end of the gold
rush and the economic downturns and panics of the 1870s all contributed to an
atmosphere of extreme hostility to Chinese immigrants throughout the western
United States. Discrimination and violence against Chinese, including lynchings
and other murders, became common. And a popular demand arose for an end to
Chinese immigration.

In 1882 Congress responded with one of its earliest attempts at immigration
regulation, suspending the immigration of Chinese laborers. (Congress also
barred from entry lunatics, idiots, convicts and those liable to become a public
charge.) For those already resident in the United States, Congress authorized
certificates of residence to establish right of reentry. But in 1888 it ended
even the right of those Chinese laborers holding certificates to reenter the
United States.

A Chinese immigrant who had relied on a residence certificate when he left San
Francisco for a visit to China in 1887 was excluded when he attempted reentry.
His lawsuit against the U.S. government was denied by the Supreme Court in 1889.
The decision, known as the Chinese Exclusion Case, is still taught as good law
in American law schools today for the proposition that the power of Congress to
exclude aliens from the United States on any grounds whatsoever is essentially
unlimited. The principle is asserted today by the U.S. government in defending
the interdiction and repatriation of the Haitian boat people. It was also
asserted in support of the exclusion of persons infected with HIV/AIDS.

The first statute authorizing deportation of persons already in the United
States was adopted in 1892 with Chinese aliens as its stated target. In an 1893
decision, the Supreme Court upheld provisions of the new law requiring a Chinese
laborer "to produce a witness other than a Chinaman" to prove his legal
residence in the United States. Although the trial judge in that case had been
convinced by Chinese witnesses of the laborer's right to reside in this country,
he felt required by the statute to order the laborer's deportation. This Supreme
Court decision is still taught today in law schools for the proposition that
deportation is not criminal punishment and therefore not subject to the
restraints that would apply in criminal proceedings.

The current powers and laws enforced by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service are based on principles established in these early cases.

The Nationality Act of 1940, codifying previous laws, authorized only the
following persons residing in the United States to be naturalized as U.S.
citizens: white persons and persons of African or Western Hemisphere descent.
The ban against immigration and naturalization of Chinese continued in full
force until 1943, when the United States, then allied with China in World War
II, felt obliged to create a tiny quota for legal Chinese immigration and
naturalization. The quota of 104 Chinese immigrants per year remained in effect
until 1965, when Congress finally did away with discriminatory national origins
quotas in immigration law. Until then, because the quotas were based on national
origin rather than nationality, a Canadian of Chinese descent, for example,
could not enter as a Canadian but had to seek entry under the tiny quota for
Chinese. Similar restrictions on the immigration and naturalization of other
Asian nationalities were also adopted by Congress before 1965.

Nearly a century of discriminatory exclusion of Asian immigrants from the United
States is reflected in the small size of the Asian American population, about 3
percent in the 1990 Census, despite accelerating immigration in the past two
decades. While this fact does not justify current illegal Chinese immigrants, it
does caution against exaggerating the size or threat of illegal Chinese
immigration.

I favor strict enforcement of our immigration laws. But I also favor evenhanded
enforcement of those laws without any vestiges of the U.S. government's
long-standing and historical bias against immigrants from China.

Many Chinese Americans owe their residence and citizenship in this country to
ancestors who defied, ignored or circumvented discriminatory immigration laws.
Some owe their residence and citizenship directly to the skills and savvy of a
previous generation of alien smugglers. As it enforces our now nondiscriminatory
immigration laws, the INS must be sensitive to the long history of our
government's discrimination against Asian and particularly Chinese immigrants.

The writer, a law professor at Temple University, was assistant commissioner of
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1990 to 1993.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: The photograph accompanying Sunday's op-ed piece by Jan C. Ting
depicted a Japanese, not Chinese, family. The picture had been mislabeled in The
Post's photographic files.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, NATIONAL ARCHIVES

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              42 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 23, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Lenient Visa Rules Permit Terrorists to Enter U.S.

Thomas W. Lippman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 855 words


Early this year an Egyptian court convicted 39 Islamic militants of terrorist
activities. As of this week, only five of them are on the State Department's
list of persons who should not receive visas for travel to this country.

One reason, State Department officials told a House subcommittee yesterday, is
that membership in a known terrorist organization is not automatic grounds for
denial of a visa. Even some persons convicted of terrorist acts may receive
visas unless a consular officer has "reason to believe" they would commit such
acts in this country, State Department officials said.

The officials were trying to explain a series of blunders that allowed Sheik
Omar Abdel Rahman, an Egyptian cleric, to obtain several visas and enter the
United States repeatedly after U.S. diplomats had identified him as a potential
terrorist. Rahman, who led mosques in New Jersey and Brooklyn before he
surrendered to immigration officials July 2, is considered the spiritual leader
of a number of suspects in the World Trade Center bombing and a thwarted plot to
blow up the United Nations and other targets in New York.

State Department Inspector General Sherman M. Funk, who is conducting the
department's investigation of the Abdel Rahman affair, said he was unaware of
the policy until it was spelled out in a Wednesday cable from the consul general
at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo.

The 1990 immigration law was intended to ease some restrictions that had
excluded people unfairly, he said, but "in terrorism, I don't think this
applies. I can't accept this interpretation."

Funk said he interprets the policy to mean that "the only person who can be
banned apparently is somebody who actually pulled the trigger or set the bomb
off."

According to the cable from Cairo, parts of which Funk read aloud, some of the
39 convicted Egyptian terrorists were not placed on the department's exclusion
list because they were convicted in absentia and the United States does not
recognize such convictions as valid. Others were omitted because they are
appealing their convictions. And others were omitted because under State
Department policy, "mere membership in a terrorist organization, other than the
Palestine Liberation Organization," is not automatic grounds for exclusion.

Rep. Tom Lantos (D-Calif.), chairman of the Foreign Affairs international
security subcommittee, said the policy was "totally insane."

Describing his own difficulty helping a Greek woman obtain a visa to attend a
constitutent's wedding, Lantos said it was "unacceptable to the American people"
that suspected terrorists such as Abdel Rahman can enter the United States at
will while innocent people are kept out.

Outside the hearing room, a State Department official gave this example of the
policy on visa applicants associated with terrorist groups: An applicant
associated with the terrorist group headed by Sabri Banna, known as Abu Nidal,
would be excluded because Abu Nidal's organization "doesn't have casual
members." But membership in Hamas, the Muslim fundamentalist group accused of
terrorist acts in the Israeli-occupied Arab territories, would not "by itself"
require exclusion.

According to Mary A. Ryan, assistant secretary of state for consular affairs,
and Cornelius R. Scully, a senior member of her staff, the Cairo suspects should
have been placed on the visa alert list under the code "double zero." That code
signals visa officers that they should refer the application to Washington for
review by "the intelligence community."

The names of the 39 Egyptians had been published in Cairo newspapers, but it was
not the job of consular officials there to add the names to their watch list on
their own initiative, according to Funk. Ryan said the embassy's political staff
should have reviewed what was known about their cases and then notified the
consular staff. It apparently failed to do so.

Funk gave the subcommittee an unclassified version of a closed briefing he gave
earlier on the Abdel Rahman case, detailing the many blunders, missed signals
and failures to notify immigration authorities that allowed Abdel Rahman to
travel to the United States. The State Department has acknowledged that it
repeatedly mishandled the Abdel Rahman case.

Missing from the unclassified version was any reference to the role of the CIA
in the case. Congressional sources confirmed a report in yesterday's New York
Times that the consular officers who reviewed most of Abdel Rahman's visa
applications in Cairo and Khartoum, Sudan, were actually CIA agents operating
under consular cover.

Lantos said he was convinced, however, that "there was no CIA complicity in a
deliberate manner" in granting visas to Abdel Rahman, who is believed by many in
the Muslim world to have received favors from the CIA because he supported the
CIA-sponsored Islamic rebellion against Soviet troops in Afghanistan.

The visas were granted, Lantos said, because of "the erroneous judgment of the
officers involved," who in several cases received false information about Abdel
Rahman's application from their locally hired clerical staff.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              43 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 24, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

'New Kids in Class'

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 476 words


The Post's recent editorial "New Kids in Class" [July 10] suggests that those
concerned about U.S. immigration policy are either xenophobic or unreasonably
preoccupied with the cost of educating large numbers of children who come to
this country with little or no knowledge of English. As with any issue, there
are certainly extremists, but surely there are real problems associated with the
current level of immigration, and many who have concerns are neither bigots nor
selfish cheapskates.

As the editorial points out, many of the children who need special school
services are in the United States illegally. Is it unreasonable or bigoted to
insist that those who come to this country do so legally? Surely it is unfair
for legal immigrants and native-born citizens alike to bear the burden of
providing services for those who arrive through illegal means.

The editorial also slams those who ask that the federal government, which is
responsible for immigration policy and immigration law enforcement, be
confronted with the costs of deficiencies in these areas. Those whose children
attend schools with a high proportion of students from immigrant families are
already paying a high price and rarely have any influence on the policy makers
who created this situation.

The level of immigration in recent years is simply so high as to swamp our
ability to provide the services that newcomers need, particularly in the
education of children with little or no knowledge of English. Rather than
dismissing the concerns of those who are bearing a significant share of the
burden of providing education to immigrants, The Post should encourage a
rational evaluation of just what level of legal immigration this country can
support, particularly in recessionary times. It might just be that the level of
frustration the editorial bemoans would drop and tolerance and respect for
newcomers to our shores increase if the level of immigration and the resources
required to provide quality public education to the children of recent arrivals
were more nearly in balance.

I have no wish to give any comfort to those whose complaints about immigration
are motivated by intolerance or lack of respect for people of differing cultural
backgrounds. Cultural diversity has been and will continue to be a great source
of strength for this country. It does not, however, follow that immigration is
an unmitigated good and that all those with concerns about the immigration
situation can be dismissed as xenophobes, skinflints or churls who would stand
in the schoolhouse door to bar the way to all except those from native-born
families. Some of us would simply like our concerns to be taken seriously by
national policy makers and the burden of educating students with
English-language limitations faced squarely and shared fairly. ROBERT FULCHER
Annandale

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, MARGARET SCOTT

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              44 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 26, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

U.S. Visas for Rich Appear to Be a Bust;
Only 753 Millionaire Investors Have Applied in Nearly 2 Years

Michael S. Arnold, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 828 words


While huddled masses of Chinese refugees pay smugglers exorbitant sums for phony
immigration documents, another type of immigrant visa is going begging: visas
for millionaire investors.

Congress expected a stampede when it set aside 10,000 visas annually for "yacht
people," foreigners willing to invest $ 1 million in businesses here. Instead,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) has received just 753
applications since the investor visa program began nearly two years ago.

Of those, 311 have been approved -- for businesses ranging from model railroad
museums and sock manufacturing to fast-food franchises and real estate
development. Through March, however, only 97 investors -- more than half of whom
already lived in the United States when they applied -- had completed the final
paperwork.

"They thought investors would be falling out of trees with their pockets full of
money, saying, 'Take my money,' " said Harold W. Ezell, chairman of an
immigration consulting firm in Newport Beach, Calif., and former commissioner of
the INS's western region. "The [investor visa] concept was correct, but the
details of the concept were too vague, and the implementation of the concept by
the INS was not as thorough as it should have been."

Among the program's glitches, critics say, are the price of admission: a
million-dollar investment in urban areas or a $ 500,000 investment in rural or
high-unemployment areas, a two-year period of conditional residency and the
requirement that the investment create 10 full-time jobs. Moreover, the INS can
do only a cursory investigation to make sure the source of the money is
legitimate.

Judging from the tepid response, Congress may have overestimated the attraction
of America. Last year, nearly 7,000 investors chose instead to go to Canada,
where they can become permanent residents for just a $ 250,000 investment with
few strings attached.

"I think when the law was passed it looked like . . . foreign investors would be
willing to pay a premium to come to the United States," said Jon Basel, a
management consultant in San Pedro, Calif., who stopped touting the investor
visa option to his Hong Kong clients a year ago. "I think we were a little
arrogant in our position."

The program had seemed an ideal marriage between a recession-wracked country
thirsting for investment and Hong Kong millionaires seeking an escape route
before Chinese rule in 1997.

But the coup de gra|ce was a U.S. law that taxes residents on their worldwide
earnings, not just the portion made in the United States.

"I have many clients who would love to invest in the United States if they
weren't subject to taxation on their worldwide income," Washington immigration
lawyer Michael Maggio said. "Since this law became effective, the only clients
I've had who were seriously interested in investor visas have been people who've
been in the United States for at least three years but do not have valid visas."

Also using the investor visa are families who pool their resources and send one
"anchor relative" to America. When that person becomes a permanent resident, a
petition can bring in other relatives.

"People who are interested in immigrating to the United States are well aware of
all the avenues," said INS spokesman Rick Kinney. "Especially people who have
access to such resources. Anyone who has a million and wants to immigrate can
probably get himself a good immigration lawyer."

If so, that lawyer is likely to explain a loophole in the 1990 immigration act
that makes it easier for foreigners to enter the country as transferred business
executives, a visa category with no requirements for investment or job creation
and that can confer permanent residency swiftly.

New York immigration attorney Austin T. Fragomen Jr., a member of the Advisory
Board of Foreign Investment in the United States, said about 100 clients who
wanted to move to the United States have considered the investor program, but
only three or four have chosen to pursue it.

"We would only look to the investor category as a last resort," Fragomen said.
"I'd say it's pretty much a total failure."

Ezell recommended halving the requirements for investment and job creation to
make the visas more attractive.

But given the rancorous Senate debate that attended the program's birth -- when
opponents charged that, in effect, it auctioned U.S. citizenship to the highest
bidder -- an easing of requirements seems unlikely.

"We don't want people to buy their way into the country because they have money
and can go to the head of the line," said John Trasvina, an aide to Sen. Paul
Simon (D-Ill.), who backed the program in subcommittee. "That would portray that
we were catering to rich people and to rich foreign people, and I don't think
there's the political will to do that.

"We never intended it to be the most effective investor program in the world,"
Trasvina said. "We just wanted it to be competitive."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              45 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 30, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Death Camp Defendant To Seek to Reenter U.S.;
Justice Dept. Objects Despite Israeli Ruling

Sharon LaFraniere, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A16

LENGTH: 610 words


John Demjanjuk yesterday escaped a death sentence for the crimes of Ivan the
Terrible, the sadistic gas chamber operator at the Nazis' Treblinka death camp.
Now that he knows he will live, the question is where?

The 73-year-old former auto worker, who has spent seven years in solitary
confinement, wants to go back to his wife, children and grandchildren in
Cleveland. But the Justice Department said yesterday it would oppose his return
to the United States even though the Israeli Supreme Court threw out his
conviction and death sentence for the murderous acts of Ivan the Terrible.

Neal M. Sher, who heads the department's Nazi-hunting unit, said there is still
"ironclad" evidence that Demjanjuk trained as a SS guard at Trawniki, Poland,
and herded Jews into gas chambers at the Nazi death camp in Sobibor.

Michael Tigar, one of Demjanjuk's attorneys, said yesterday he will ask a
federal appeals court in Cincinnati today to allow Demjanjuk back into the
United States at least temporarily. That court, which handled Demjanjuk's 1985
extradition, rejected as premature a similar motion last August.

Edward Nishnic, Demjanjuk's son-in-law, said he hopes Attorney General Janet
Reno will act on her own to permit Demjanjuk to reenter the United States.
"We're just one family. We're here with empty pockets, with no place to go. I
hope that the United States has the moral -- I mean the moral obligation they
say they have -- to bring him home and get us out of here," Nishnic said in an
interview in Jerusalem, where he was trying to negotiate what he hopes will be
his father's temporary move to a third country.

Immigration law permits the United States to refuse entry to anyone who
participated in the Nazi persecution of Jews. Elliott C. Lichtman, a local
immigration attorney, said if the Justice Department attempts to bar Demjanjuk's
reentry, he might be entitled to a hearing before an immigration judge.

Sher said that the Justice Department can prove Demjanjuk was one of only 500
guards who were part of Operation Reinhart, which organized the deaths of 1.5
million Jews in less than two years. Sher noted that the Israeli Supreme Court's
decision cited "clear and unequivocal" evidence that Demjanuk trained at
Trawniki and strong evidence that he was transferred to Sobibor, one of
Operation Reinhart's three death camps.

In addition, Sher said, a 1984 order against Demjanjuk is still valid, because
it was based on a finding Demjanjuk served at Trawniki as well as Treblinka.
Demjanjuk was stripped of his citizenship in 1981 on the grounds that he
concealed his Nazi past.

Jewish groups said yesterday they would be outraged by any move to readmit
Demjanjuk. Rabbi Marvin Hier, founder of the Simon Weisenthal Center in Los
Angeles, said in a statement: "It would be a desecration of the memory of the
Holocaust to parade John Demjanjuk around America as some kind of folk hero who
beat the system. . . . Even if he is not Ivan the Terrible, let us not make him
into John the Saint, because by doing that John Demjanjuk becomes the victim
instead of the thousands of innocent men, women and children he helped round up
and send to the gas chamber."

In Cleveland, Demjanjuk's family and friends called for his immediate return.
"We're just waiting for him to come home," his daughter, Lydia Demjanjuk, told
the Associated Press. The Rev. John R. Nakonachny of St. Vladimir's Ukrainian
Orthodox Cathedral told the wire service: "We are overjoyed with the ruling of
the court. We've expected it, because we have believed in Mr. Demjanjuk all
these years. Our main concern is to have him returned to the United States."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              46 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 17, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

The Detention Alternative

Daniel Wolf, Robert B. Jobe

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 855 words


In October 1992, 20 Punjabi police roused Avtar Singh from his sleep, dragged
him by his hair to a jeep and drove him to a police station. After accusing him
of supporting the Sikh independence movement and providing food and shelter to
Sikh separatists, five police officers stripped Singh naked, bound his hands and
feet and suspended him upside down. As he dangled from the ceiling, the officers
beat him with wooden rods until he fell unconscious. The next day Singh was tied
to a steel chair and, while he cried out for mercy, tortured by his
interrogators with electric shock.

Shortly after securing his release with a bribe, Singh fled India. Upon his
arrival at San Francisco International Airport, he was arrested by INS agents
for presenting a false passport. He was ordered detained because he was unable
to convince an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer that he had a
"credible fear" of persecution. Three months later, an immigration judge granted
Singh's application for political asylum.

If the Clinton administration's new immigration bill had been in effect,
however, the INS would have returned Singh to his torturers in India rather than
giving him an opportunity to present his case for refugee status in a court of
law. The centerpiece of the proposed bill is a provision that requires the
immediate deportation of any alien who enters the United States without proper
documentation unless he can demonstrate to an INS official (subject to a cursory
review by an officer of another agency) that he has a "credible fear" of
persecution.

This "credible fear" standard is currently used in some parts of the country to
determine whether aliens like Singh should be released from custody while they
pursue their claims for political asylum. Hundreds of genuine refugees are
languishing in detention centers because the INS is wholly incapable of applying
this standard with any degree of accuracy. Many asylum seekers have great
difficulty articulating their claims because they fear authority, are
uneducated, cannot speak English and lack corroborating evidence. Yet, the
proposed bill would give INS officers practically unbridled discretion to make
life-or-death decisions for asylum seekers in summary exclusion proceedings
without affording applicants the right to judicial review of their claims. No
one should be given such discretion -- especially the INS, which, as all too
many can testify, is an agency plagued by bias, callousness and ineptitude.

The administration's bill panders to a wave of anti-immigrant hysteria that has
been fueled by sensationalist news stories linking both the World Trade Center
bombing and the arrival of several boatloads of Chinese migrants to lax
immigration policies. This proposed bill would not, however, stop terrorism or
stem the tide of illegal immigration. The bill applies only to aliens who are
unable to present proper documents at airports and other points of entry. Unless
these aliens arrive in New York, where there are virtually no facilities for
holding them, they are ordinarily detained upon their arrival pending a final
decision on their application for asylum.

Undocumented aliens who avoid detention and disappear into the general
population represent only a small fraction of the hundreds of thousands of
illegal aliens who enter the United States undetected each year. The
administration bill is nothing more than a symbolic gesture that would be paid
for with the blood of innocent refugees who were understandably unable to obtain
valid passports when they fled their countries of origin.

The administration could prevent aliens who lack proper documents from abusing
our asylum laws with measures far less extreme than those it proposes. Rather
than adopting expedited procedures for determining who should be deported, the
bill should provide a prompt hearing to determine whether an arriving asylum
seeker should be detained pending determination of his or her claim. Congress
should mandate an increase in the fee for processing alien visa applications and
ensure that the proceeds are used to make adequate detention facilities are made
available for those who cannot demonstrate a "credible fear." Their cases should
then be placed on a fast track whereby their asylum hearing and administrative
appeal would be resolved within 90 days. Such fast-track adjudications could be
accomplished by increasing the number of immigration judges and tripling the
size of the Board of Immigration Appeals, which currently consists of only five
members who must handle thousands of immigrant appeals each year.

Detaining aliens who cannot convince an INS officer that they have a credible
fear of persecution will do as much as the administration's proposal would to
prevent undeserving and potentially dangerous aliens from entering the country.
Unlike the administration bill, however, the detention alternative would not
result in the return of genuine refugees to their persecutors.

Daniel Wolf is a Washington lawyer. Robert B. Jobe is a lawyer with a San
Francisco-based firm that specializes in asylum matters.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              47 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 1, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

'Credible Fear' and the INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 625 words


The attack by Daniel Wolf and Robert Jobe [op-ed, Aug. 17] on the
administration's proposal for expedited exclusion of aliens who arrive in the
United States with no valid travel documents and who have no "credible fear of
persecution" misrepresents both the proposed legislation (S. 1333 and H.R. 2836)
and present Immigration and Naturalization Service procedures.

The writers' claim that hundreds of genuine refugees are languishing in
detention "because the INS is wholly incapable of applying" the credible-fear
standard in its present operations is contradicted by the record. Since April
1993 INS officers have interviewed more than 2,500 detained asylum applicants to
determine whether they have a "credible fear of persecution" in their home
country on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular
social group or political opinion. In 32 percent of these cases, the INS has
recommended release from detention pending further immigration proceedings.

The wholesale claims against application of the credible-fear standard are
apparently based on the single example of Mr. Jobe's client, Avtar Singh, who
was granted asylum by an immigration judge three months after his arrival in the
United States. In that case, the asylum prescreening officer's finding that Mr.
Singh did not have a "credible fear of persecution" was based on a precedent
decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals. The immigration judge apparently
discerned this precedent in granting asylum to Mr. Singh. Such cases are the
rare exception in the asylum prescreening program.

Further, the fact that Mr. Singh was found not to have a "credible fear of
persecution" in the interview does not mean that, under the legislation, he
would have been summarily returned to his persecutors. Under this legislation,
the asylum claims of those seeking to enter the United States without proper
documentation also would be screened according to the credible-fear standard.
However, the asylum prescreening program does not, nor was it intended to, have
the level of formalization and review that would be mandated under this
legislation.

Had the legislation been in effect at the time Mr. Singh arrived in San
Francisco, he would have had an immediate interview with a member of the INS
Asylum Officer Corps, specially trained and with expertise in interviewing
techniques, asylum law and conditions in countries worldwide. If the officer
found Mr. Singh to have a credible fear of persecution, he would have been
allowed to pursue his asylum claim without being detained. If the officer did
not find him to have a credible fear, that decision would have been promptly
reviewed by a supervisory officer outside the INS having qualifications
equivalent to those of the immigration judge who eventually granted asylum to
Mr. Singh.

The expedited exclusion bill offers benefits to legitimate asylum seekers like
Mr. Singh. No person with a credible fear of persecution would be detained
pending an asylum hearing. Those without a credible fear of persecution would be
returned to their country of nationality or of last departure -- thus removing
thousands of cases that now clog the system and delay the decisions on
legitimate asylum applicants.

Procedural structure of statutes, regulations and federal court decisions
combined with a lack of resources result in inefficient adjudication and
protracted review of immigration benefit applications. The administration's
proposed legislation is a step toward making it easier for us to protect genuine
refugees like Mr. Singh and to deter those who would abuse our nation's
generosity. CHRIS SALE Acting Commissioner Immigration and Naturalization
Service U.S. Department of Justice Washington

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              48 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 11, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

Phony Visa Ring Uncovered;
Officials Cite Papers of Accused Cleric's Followers

Michael Isikoff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2

LENGTH: 349 words


Federal investigators have uncovered a sophisticated counterfeiting operation
that sold large numbers of phony U.S. entry visas to Egyptians, including some
followers of Muslim cleric and accused terrorist leader Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman,
a U.S. official said yesterday.

Using color photocopies, an Egyptian in Newark manufactured hundreds -- and
possibly thousands -- of "high quality" visas that were shipped to Egypt, the
official said. The documents permitted recipients to gain illegal entry to the
United States.

Investigators from the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the two agencies that conducted the
probe, have positively identified at least two individuals who received the
visas as also connected to the al-Salam mosque in Jersey City where Abdel Rahman
frequently preached, the official said.

The official said the number of Abdel Rahman followers with the visas may be
much higher and the investigaton is continuing. Nevertheless, he said,
investigators have found no evidence that directly linked the phony visa
operation to alleged participants in the Feb. 26 bombing of the World Trade
Center in New York.

"People receiving these visas do have a connection to the blind sheik; they have
a connection to the mosque," said the official. "However, there's been no link
established to people . . . implicated in the terrorist bombing."

Abdel Rahman, known for his fiery anti-U.S. sermons, has been accused by U.S.
immigration officials of entering the country under false pretenses. He was
taken into custody by U.S. immigration officials in July and charged in an
indictment last month with being a spiritual leader of a wide-ranging terrorist
conspiracy to blow up New York City landmarks.

According to the official, the investigation began in April 1992 and led two
weeks ago to the arrest of an Egyptian who operated a business in Newark. The
Egyptian, who has not been named, is scheduled to be indicted by a federal grand
jury on Tuesday, when officials may reveal details about the operation.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              49 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 13, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Marlene Cook Awaits Ruling On Her Deportation Appeal

Nell Henderson

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B5; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 294 words


The long-running deportation case against Marlene Chalmers Cooke, the
Bolivian-born wife of Washington Redskins owner Jack Kent Cooke, is under review
by a board of immigration appeals, and there is no indication when it may rule.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is fighting Marlene Cooke's
appeal of an administrative judge's deportation order, said Janice Podolny, a
lawyer for the INS.

Both sides filed briefs during the summer, Podolny said. She said Cooke's case
is not under accelerated review because Cooke is not under detention.

Jack Kent Cooke said Friday that his wife was out of town and referred inquiries
to her attorney in the matter, Thomas A. Elliot, who declined to comment while
the case is pending before the board. He said the board is not required to act
within any specified time.

The deportation efforts resulted from Marlene Cooke's 1986 guilty plea to
conspiracy to import cocaine, which was accompanied by her agreement to
cooperate with investigators.

An immigration judge found that Marlene Cooke should be deported, and she
appealed. But before the appeal was resolved, she left the country briefly. INS
officials said last year that she effectively had deported herself and argued
unsuccessfully that her appeal should be dismissed.

Marlene Cooke came to the United States in 1975 to join her mother, who had a
residency permit or "green card," and she obtained her own permit in the early
1980s. She became a friend of Suzanne Martin Cooke, the billionaire's third
wife. That marriage ended in divorce in 1988, and Cooke married Marlene
Chalmers, then 37, in 1990.

Under U.S. immigration law, her marriage to a U.S. citizen does not
automatically make her a citizen or protect her from deportation.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              50 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 22, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

The U.S.A. and the PLO

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 425 words


THE AGREEMENT signed by Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization last
week will have implications for American law and policy that go beyond the
immediate task of supporting and financing the continuing peace process. Over
the long years of conflict between the former antagonists, the United States
enacted some laws and adopted some positions in relation to the PLO that were of
dubious constitutionality. But now, as Secretary of State Warren Christopher
said in a speech in New York on Monday, it is time to remove them.

Among the laws that should be repealed are those that closed the PLO's United
Nations observer office in New York and its information office here. These
facilities, staffed by Americans and legal resident aliens and complying with
all relevant U.S. laws, were engaged in providing information to the public --
political propaganda, if you will -- not terrorism, and should never have been
the target of congressional suppression. The offices should be allowed to
reopen.

A second area of concern does not require a statutory change but a policy shift.
During the Bush administration, the Immigration and Naturalization Service chose
to interpret a provision of the immigration law in a way that would allow the
deportation of any alien who had ever supported any organization that has
committed an act of terrorism, even if the person only contributed funds for
lawful and legitimate purposes like refugee assistance or health care. Moreover,
the statutory definition of "terrorism" is broad enough to cover not only the
PLO but many organizations like the African National Congress and others that
have taken up arms in political struggles widely supported here. Because of this
policy, the U.S. government has been trying to deport eight aliens living in Los
Angeles, not one of whom has been accused of a crime or charged with engaging in
terrorism. But because they have spoken and raised money for a PLO-related
group, the U.S. government wants to expel them.

Sixty-three immigration law professors wrote to Attorney General Janet Reno on
Monday urging her reconsideration of this overbroad policy. It is wrong not only
in the context of the PLO but on its face. Ms. Reno should also take another
look at the Los Angeles case, which was inherited from the Reagan and Bush
administrations, and abandon it. The aliens involved did nothing for which an
American citizen could be penalized. The charge against them is political
speech, not terrorism, and speech should not be a deportation offense.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              51 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 27, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

It's a Smorgasbord!

William Raspberry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 788 words


The immigration applications, the legal and illegal dodges for getting into this
country, the longings you hear in practically every other part of the world all
attest to two astounding facts. The first, widely accepted though not always
with good grace, is that "everybody" wants to be an American. The second, of
which we take almost no notice, is that almost anybody can become an American.

To see just how extraordinary a fact that is, imagine hearing anyone -- black,
white or Asian -- saying he wants to "become Japanese." It sounds like a joke.
One can live in Japan (or Ghana or Sweden or Mexico) -- can live there
permanently and prosper. But it's essentially impossible to imagine anyone born
anywhere else becoming anything else -- except American.

It's a thought that crosses my mind whenever I hear demands that the government
protect the ethnic or language heritage of particular groups: when African
Americans demand that the public schools adopt an Afrocentric curriculum, for
instance, or when immigrants from Latin America are sworn in as American
citizens -- in Spanish.

It crossed my mind again the other day when I came across Jim Sleeper's essay
"In Defense of Civic Culture."

I won't try to characterize Sleeper's piece or to summarize its recommendations;
you can get it for yourself from the Washington-based Progressive Foundation. I
won't even tell you I agree with everything Sleeper, an editorial writer for the
New York Daily News and author of "The Closest Strangers," has to say on the
subject of race and ethnicity.

But the questions he raises (Is there an American culture? Is it worth defending
against those who see it merely as a bastion of Eurocentric male chauvinism?)
come close to the things I think about when I ponder the extraordinary
possibility of becoming American.

He acknowledges the obvious: The America that counted my great-great-grandfather
as only three-fifths of a human being has never been free of ethnic and racial
bigotry, and that bigotry has sometimes achieved the status of law -- even of
philosophy and religion.

But he notes something else: America is one of the few places on the globe where
accusation of such bigotry is a serious indictment. Even when America has been
at its ugliest in fact -- slavery, the slaughter of Native Americans, the
internment of Japanese and the full range of private and public atrocities, "yet
always America held out the promise that, as Ralph Waldo Emerson put it, in this
'asylum of all nations, the energy of . . . all the European tribes [and] of the
Africans, & of the Polynesians will construct a new race.' "

The civic culture Sleeper writes about includes this notion of Americans as a
new and different race, but it also entails what he describes as characteristic
American virtues: tolerance, optimism, self-restraint, self-reliance, reason,
public-mindedness -- virtues that are "taught and caught in the daily life of
local institutions and in the examples set by neighbors, co-workers and public
leaders."

It is, he suggests, the internalizing of these virtues that defines "becoming
American."

But the transformation works both ways. If people from an awesome range of
colors, cultures and ethnicities have become Americans, so has America become
what it is (and continues to become) by absorbing and embracing these myriad
influences.

Some of us are angry, and ought to be, that our texts and teachings disregard or
underestimate our part of these influences. Some of us are disappointed that
what we bring to the smorgasbord is often undervalued, even brutally rejected.
But surely the cure is in working for greater inclusion, not cultural isolation.
That's what observers as different as Sleeper, Arthur Schlesinger and John
Gardner have been saying. That's what Gary Trudeau was saying in that hilarious
(and sobering) recent series of "Doonesbury" strips that ended with black
students -- already having attained their separate courses and dormitories --
demanding separate drinking fountains.

Sleeper's insight is that there is nothing "natural" or automatic about those
values and attitudes that used to be called "the American way." Educators must
teach them, he says, and also "teach that self-esteem is enhanced not simply
through pride in one's own cultural origins but, more importantly, by taking
pride in one's mastery of civic virtues and graces that all Americans share and
admire in building our society."

Critics of this view will argue that Sleeper's virtuous and graceful America is
a figment, that America is a deeply -- perhaps irredeemably -- racist society.

I prefer to think that Americans are still becoming Americans, just as America
is still becoming America.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              52 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 30, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

TODAY IN CONGRESS

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A7

LENGTH: 468 words


SENATE

Meets at 9 a.m.

Committees:

Environment & Public Works -- 10 a.m. Superfund, recycling & solid waste
management subc. Superfund cleanup standards & innovative cleanup technologies.
406 Dirksen Office Bldg.

Finance -- 10 a.m. Health care reform. First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton. 215
DOB.

Foreign Relations -- 10 a.m. Nomination of Carol Bellamy to be director of Peace
Corps. S-116 Capitol.

Foreign Relations -- 10 a.m. Nominations of Edward Perkins to be ambassador to
Australia; Richard Teare to be ambassador to Papua New Guinea, the Solomon
Islands & Vanuatu; & Theresa Tull to be ambassador to Brunei. 419 DOB.

Judiciary -- 9:30 a.m. Pending business. 226 DOB.

Judiciary -- 2:30 p.m. Nomination of Doris Meissner to be commissioner of
immigration & naturalization. 226 DOB.

Labor & Human Resources -- 1 p.m. Health care reform, focusing on health
security & savings. 430 DOB.


HOUSE

Meets at 10 a.m.

Committees:

Agriculture -- 9:30 a.m. North American Free Trade Agreement. 1300 Longworth
House Office Bldg.

Education & Labor -- 11 a.m. Human resources subc. To require states to ensure
quality of private security services for juvenile facilities receiving federal
funds; Older Americans Act Technical Amendments; & Juvenile Justice &
Delinquency Prevention Act Technical Amendments. 2261 Rayburn House Office Bldg.

Foreign Affairs -- 2 p.m. Africa subc. U.S. policy toward transition in South
Africa. 2172 RHOB.

Government Operations -- 9:30 a.m. Information, justice, transportation &
agriculture subc. Relationship of maritime policy to agricultural exports. 2203
RHOB.

Government Operations -- 10 a.m. Legislation & national security subc. Revolving
Door Sunshine Act. 2154 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Economic & commercial law subc. International competition
in steel industry. 2141 RHOB.

Judiciary -- 10 a.m. Crime & criminal justice subc. Brady Handgun Violence
Prevention Act. 2226 RHOB.

Merchant Marine & Fisheries -- 1 p.m. Oceanography, Gulf of Mexico, & outer
continental shelf subc. Nuclear contamination in Arctic Ocean. 1334 LHOB.

Natural Resources -- 10 a.m. National parks, forests & public lands subc. Land
exchange bills: Mount Sopris, Colo., land exchange; Calif. land exchange; & S.C.
land exchange. 1324 LHOB.

Post Office & Civil Service -- 10 a.m. Compensation & employee benefits subc.
Mass transit subsidies available to federal employees. 311 Cannon House Office
Bldg.

Small Business -- 10 a.m. Business climate in Mexico, focusing on potential
impact of NAFTA on human rights. 2359 RHOB.

Ways & Means -- 9:30 a.m. Trade subc. Mark up draft implementing legislation for
NAFTA; approving extension of non-discriminatory treatment for products of
Romania; regarding Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Organization. 1100 LHOB.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: SCHEDULE

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              53 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 16, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

House Approves Emergency Jobless Benefits Extension

Kenneth J. Cooper, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 697 words


The House yesterday overwhelmingly voted to extend emergency jobless benefits
and pay for the $ 1 billion in anticipated costs partly through cuts in welfare
to elderly immigrants.

The jobless aid bill was sent to the Senate by a vote of 302 to 95, ending a
two-week delay caused by Hispanic lawmakers who objected to welfare cuts of $
320 million for elderly, blind and disabled immigrants.

Emergency jobless benefits lapsed Oct. 2. Since then about 60,000 unemployed
workers who exhausted their regular 26 weeks of checks have been unable to apply
for an extra seven or 13 weeks of benefits. Senate Majority Leader George J.
Mitchell (D-Maine) has indicated he wants a Senate vote next week.

More than 750,000 jobless workers could become eligible for extra benefits
before the extension runs out in February.

Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus opposed financing the extension
through cuts to legal immigrants receiving Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
payments. The bill would reduce an immigrant's eligibility by counting his
sponsor's income for five years, instead of the current three years.

The 18-member caucus initially got House Speaker Thomas S. Foley (D-Wash.) to
support a procedural motion that would have deleted the SSI cut from the bill
and shorten the aid extension by several weeks. But lawmakers Thursday
unexpectedly voted 274 to 149 to reject that motion, after a debate described by
some Hispanic members as anti-immigrant.

Republican lawmakers characterized the vote as a choice between benefits for
American workers or welfare for "aliens."

Without citing specifics, Hispanic Caucus Chairman Rep. Jose E. Serrano (D-N.Y.)
called the debate "offensive" and criticized "those who would make impoverished
legal immigrants scapegoats for our problems."

Rules Committee Chairman Rep. John Joseph Moakley (D-Mass.), whose committee
drafted the procedural motion, also said opponents made "nativist" arguments.

"They were calling them 'aliens.' They're 'immigrants,' " Moakley said.

But Foley denied that the vote reflected an anti-immigrant mood that has
surfaced around the nation, especially in California.

"I think the message of the vote is that members wanted the full funding of the
bill" into February, he said.

The rejection of the procedural motion, with 103 Democrats joining 171
Republicans, surprised Foley and Democratic leaders who thought they had enough
support for passage on Wednesday.

Sources said the agreement to delete the welfare cut for immigrants unraveled
Thursday morning during a weekly meeting of Democratic vote counters, after
freshman Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.) angered Ways and Means Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski (D-Ill.).

Becerra thanked Democratic leaders for backing the Hispanics' objections to the
"unfair" provision drafted by the Ways and Means Committee, prompting testy
exchanges with Rostenkowski. During floor debate, Rostenkowski argued against
the motion and apparently swayed some Democrats. Seven committee chairmen sided
with him, as did 14 of 24 Democrats on his committee.

"We mistakenly awoke a sleeping giant," said Rep. Bill Richardson (D-N.M.), a
chief deputy whip and a Hispanic Caucus member.

According to a Ways and Means Committee statement, the number of immigrants
receiving SSI benefits increased fivefold between 1982 and 1992, when they
accounted for 11 percent of 5.5 million beneficiaries. The largest number of
immigrants receiving aid came from Mexico, the former Soviet Union, the
Philippines, Cuba and China.

The controversy over SSI for immigrants foreshadowed the anticipated debate on
revising welfare programs.

Aides to House Republicans said they propose to finance their welfare
legislation by making most "noncitizens" ineligible for SSI, Medicaid, food
stamps and Aid to Families with Dependent Children. The changes would save $ 21
billion over five years, a GOP aide said.

Rep. Harold E. Ford (D-Tenn.), chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee on
human resources, said he promised the Hispanic Caucus that the panel would hold
hearings on welfare for immigrants within two weeks.

Staff writer Kevin Merida contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              54 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 29, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Man Charged With Killing Parents Deported to France

Santiago O'Donnell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D6

LENGTH: 267 words


Tran Van Khiem, who spent seven years at St. Elizabeths Hospital after being
found unfit to stand trial on charges he killed his diplomat parents, was
deported to France yesterday, an immigration official said.

Khiem, 68, won the right to be released last week after D.C. Superior Court
Judge Curtis E. von Kann ruled that he will never be competent to assist in his
defense.

On Wednesday, Immigration Judge John Milo Bryant ordered that Khiem be deported,
and yesterday Immigration and Naturalization Service officials took him to
Dulles International Airport, where he boarded a flight to France, INS
spokeswoman Nancy Bruns said.

Hospital officials determined that Khiem did not represent a danger to himself
or others, Khiem's lawyer, Jamie S. Gardner, said last week.

INS officials said Khiem, who was born in Vietnam, had entered the United States
as a visitor on March 28, 1986, with a valid French passport and was authorized
to remain in the country until Sept. 27, 1986.

Khiem's parents, Tran Van Chuong, 88, and Nam-Tran Chuong, 75, were found dead
on July 24, 1986, in the home they shared with Khiem in Northwest Washington.

Prosecutors charged that Khiem had beaten, choked and then suffocated his
parents with a pillow to avoid being disinherited.

Khiem's father had been South Vietnam's ambassador to the United States, and his
mother had been the envoy to the United Nations.

They resigned in 1963, but they remained active in Washington's Vietnamese
community.

Khiem's behavior during his 1988 murder trial prompted the judge to order him
examined at St. Elizabeths.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              55 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 24, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cubans Seek Asylum

Compiled by Robert Fachet

SECTION: SPORTS; PAGE E2; FANFARE

LENGTH: 173 words


A total of seven Cubans reportedly have fled that country's delegation at the
Central American and Caribbean Games in Puerto Rico and an immigration official
confirmed that four have sought political asylum in the United States.

Secundino Amaya, 50, a Communist Party member and a Cuban Sports Ministry
photographer, reportedly was the latest to go. He has not been seen since Monday
night when he left the Hotel Belgica in San Juan, members of the Cuban
delegation said. Shooting team member Ana Zulrik Santiago Diaz was reported
missing and removed from the list of competitors in her events.

Robert Bowles, an assistant district director for the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said in San Juan that three requests for asylum were
received late Monday. He would not identify the applicants by name, but when
asked, confirmed that two of them were the father-and-son members of the archery
team, Alfonso Donate and Alfonso Donate Sotelo. Earlier, the INS confirmed that
Roger Ramirez, a diver, had sought asylum.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              56 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 18, 1994, Tuesday, Capital Edition

118 Chinese Nationals Returned Home By INS

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 189 words


The United States yesterday sent home 118 Chinese nationals caught trying to
sneak into the country on smuggler ships, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service said.

This marked the largest group of boat people returned to China since the United
States began deporting them in November, after a number of ill-fated landings
made headlines.

So far, a total of 134 Chinese nationals who tried to sneak into the United
States with the aid of smugglers have been sent back, the INS said in a
statement.

"All of those Chinese removed from the United States were given full due process
under our laws, including a hearing before an immigration judge, an opportunity
to be represented by counsel and an appeal of their decision," the statement
said.

It said the Chinese left the United States from Bakersfield, Calif., on a
charter flight. They were accompanied by six INS officers and and one Public
Health Service officer.

Symbolized by the grounding of the freighter Golden Venture on a New York City
beach in June, a tidal wave of undocumented Chinese immigrants had seemed poised
to hit the United States last summer.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              57 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 25, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Asylum Sought by Roommate Of Suspect in CIA Shootings

Lorraine Adams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B4

LENGTH: 773 words


Exactly one year after the shootings at the CIA, the man charged in the case
still is at large and the roommate who turned him in is seeking political asylum
in the United States because of alleged threats.

Zahed Ahmad Mir led authorities to suspect Mir Aimal Kansi in the Jan. 25, 1993,
slayings of two people and the wounding of three others outside the CIA's
headquarters in Langley. Mir then served six months in federal prison for
immigration fraud.

Now free and living in Northern Virginia, Mir is seeking political asylum, law
enforcement officials said, because of threats he said have been made against
him in his native Pakistan.

His attorney says the Immigration and Naturalization Service is trying to deport
him. An INS spokesman denied that Mir was being deported, saying that "his case
is under review." Neither would say whether the alleged threats are connected to
the CIA case.

Fairfax Commonwealth's Attorney Robert F. Horan Jr. said having Mir as a witness
is no longer critical to prosecuting Kansi. "We could put the case on without
him, and would put the case on without him," he said.

Even though a year has passed, Horan said he is ready to go to trial today. "I
just hope we get Kansi," he said.

Two of the victims of the Jan. 25 incident -- Stephen E. Williams, an employee
of a CIA contractor, and Calvin Morgan, a CIA engineer -- have recovered from
their injuries and returned to work, said agency spokesman Dave Christian. CIA
analyst Nicholas Starr is still in physical therapy and has not returned to
work. Christian said all three declined to comment.

Today, employees at the CIA headquarters plan to wear black ribbons on their
lapels and observe one minute of silence at 10 a.m. for their slain colleagues,
Lansing C. Bennett, 66, a physician and intelligence analyst, and Frank Darling,
28, who had worked in covert operations.

Sunday morning, about 40 family members and friends of the two men held a
private memorial service on the median strip on Dolley Madison Boulevard (Route
123), where the shooting occurred. They left flowers and two small crosses.

In the last year, there have been other memorials -- a hillside of wildflowers
was planted near the site and two stars were added to the 54 already carved in
the CIA headquarters lobby commemorating those who have died in agency service.
Also, construction is scheduled to begin next month for a small security booth
at the Route 123 entrance to the CIA headquarters, Christian said.

The FBI has led the hunt for Kansi, who boarded an airplane for his native
Pakistan the day after he sprayed bullets at cars stopped at a red light during
morning rush hour in front of CIA headquarters. The State Department still is
offering a $ 100,000 reward for information leading to his arrest. He is on the
FBI's Ten Most Wanted list.

"We have no idea where he is, but we've had leads from various countries
throughout the world, and we aggressively pursue those leads, and this is a
high-priority case," said James DeSarno, special agent in charge of the FBI's
criminal section.

The FBI has sent agents to Pakistan throughout the year to "reinforce and
reemphasize our interest in Mr. Kansi and to rekindle our liaison with Pakistani
officials who have a warrant for his arrest," DeSarno said.

DeSarno declined to say whether officials believe Kansi is in Pakistan.
Officials said earlier that he also could be in Iran, Iraq or Afghanistan.

"Sometimes it takes years to get a break in a fugitive case," DeSarno said. "Our
objective in a fugitive case is to allow time for the person to become routine
again."

Police were led to Kansi initially by Mir, who was his roommate in a Reston
apartment. Mir called a police hot line three days after the shooting. He said
Kansi had been upset by the treatment of Muslims in Bosnia and had planned to
"make a big statement" at the CIA, the White House or the Israeli Embassy.

Authorities have said Mir also was with Kansi when he bought the AK-47-type
rifle that police believe he used in the shooting.

Mir allowed police to search the apartment, where the AK-47 was found under a
couch. But officials feared he would leave the country and held him in the
Fairfax jail as a material witness.

David Franklin, acting deputy chief for operations in the Fairfax Police
Department, said the case against Kansi "is pretty much put together and has
been since last spring."

In April, Mir was convicted of perjury and filing false statements when he lied
to immigration officials to obtain residence and work permits in 1988. An INS
official confirmed that Mir was seeking political asylum.


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SHOOTING NEAR CIA: ONE YEAR LATER, JOHN MCDONNELL; ILLUSTRATION,
TWP

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              58 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 30, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Court Ruling Could Spur New Wave of Immigration From China

Steve Bates, Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A16

LENGTH: 1234 words


When the Chinese government ordered the sterilization of Guo Chun Di and his
wife as part of a population control crackdown, the 29-year-old farmer decided
to run away. He hopped a freighter and fled to the United States -- "a freedom
country," he said.

He had paid a smuggler $ 5,000 for a spot on the boat and spent four months at
sea. But as soon as he arrived in New York in June, on board the ill-fated
Golden Venture, Guo was put behind bars, winding up in a jail in Winchester, Va.
He was about to be deported.

Then along came a federal judge in Alexandria who gave him another chance.

In a decision that specialists say could encourage a new wave of Chinese
immigration and trigger more lawsuits for asylum, U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis
III ruled that China's population control strategy is political persecution, a
violation of a basic human right. The policy has been criticized for leading to
sterilizations and abortions to enforce the country's one-child-per-family rule.

Although Ellis's ruling did not grant Guo political asylum, it ordered
immigration officials to review his case and consider the family planning issue
when deciding whether to send him back to China.

Meanwhile, Guo remains in jail, dreaming that one day his wife and daughter will
be able to join him here, according to his lawyer, Timothy S. Burgett. Guo, who
has six years of schooling, "knows we've won a victory. But he doesn't
understand, if he won, why he's still in jail," Burgett said.

Although Ellis's Jan. 14 opinion is not binding on dozens of similar cases
pending in federal courts across the nation, human rights advocates described
the decision as a breakthrough in recognizing China's family planning policy as
a legitimate basis for granting political asylum. Those who seek to limit
immigration view it as a dangerous invitation to illegal aliens.

"This is an extremely important opinion, a trailblazing opinion, because this is
the first federal judge to rule on this issue," said Craig Trebilcock, an
immigration lawyer who is seeking asylum for 22 Chinese refugees now jailed in
York, Pa. "There can tend to be a domino effect in these matters."

But Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, called the judge's decision "a disaster" and added, "We're sending a
message back to China: You're going to get in."

The ruling raises moral and public policy questions at a time when the Clinton
administration's policy on Chinese refugees is under review. The issue has
generated debate at the White House, Justice Department, Immigration and
Naturalization Service and State Department as well as in Congress. Among the
key questions is how far this country should go to grant relief to Chinese who
want more than one child.

Guo Chun Di's story is similar to those of other Chinese refugees seeking asylum
for family reasons. He told authorities that he came to the United States in
desperation.

"China has no freedom," Guo told an immigration judge last summer. "I only have
one child. I want to have two more children, but they won't let me. I'm afraid
that if they find me, they will take me to get sterilized."

Two other Chinese men who sailed with Guo on the Golden Venture have cases
pending at the Alexandria courthouse: Yang Cheng Huan, 26, who said his wife was
sterilized two years ago after giving birth to their second child, and Chen Zhao
Chai, 41, who said he was fined and sterilized for fathering two children. His
wife was forced to have an abortion in 1992 to prevent a third birth, he said.

Guo, Yang and Chen declined to be interviewed after requests were made through
their lawyers.

China has come under international criticism for its population control policy.
The Chinese government says the policy, pursued since 1979, is necessary so that
population growth doesn't wreck the economy. The world's most populous nation,
China has nearly 1.2 billion people.

Compliance with the policy is encouraged by education, economic incentives and
stronger measures such as fines and demotions. Although abortions and
sterilization are not officially mandated, they continue to occur, most often in
remote rural areas. The number of children a couple is allowed to have before
being penalized varies by region.

"We recognize the population problem there," said Lory Rosenberg, a lawyer with
the American Immigration Law Foundation, which is assisting Chinese refugees.
"The question comes from it being a mandatory policy with these kinds of
coercive, forced, physically invasive sanctions."

The U.S. asylum policy has drawn increased attention since the arrival of the
Golden Venture, a rusty freighter that carried nearly 300 illegal Chinese
immigrants. At least six died trying to swim ashore after the boat wrecked June
6 in New York harbor.

Immigration officials said that 273 Golden Venture passengers applied for
asylum, many of them citing fear of their country's family planning policy. Of
cases decided so far, 20 requests were granted and 223 were denied. None has yet
been returned to China. About 50 of the refugees are being held in Winchester.

Guo Chun Di's lawyers filed the federal suit last fall and found a receptive ear
with Ellis, who was appointed to the bench in 1987 by President Ronald Reagan
and who has a reputation among lawyers in Northern Virginia as an activist judge
who likes to tackle tough issues.

At a hearing in December, Ellis repeatedly challenged David M. McConnell, a
Justice Department lawyer, on the Clinton administration's position. At one
point, McConnell said Guo's asylum had been denied because China's policy
"wasn't being applied to punish the people for their political opinions."

Ellis responded, "If the government says we're confiscating your house or we're
burning it up, we're going to put you in jail, and we're going to sterilize you,
isn't that persecution?"

In his ruling, Ellis complained that "there is a cacophony of administrative
voices, each singing a different tune in a different key."

Clinton administration officials said they are concerned about the signal that
the judge's opinion sends to the Chinese and fear that more boatloads of
refugees could come, leading to more deaths and a greater backlog of immigration
cases.

Spokesmen for the administration said Friday that no decision had been made on
whether to appeal Ellis's ruling. "This is not a precedent-setting case," said
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
judge "made the decision as it pertained to one case."

Last year, the Board of Immigration Appeals asked Attorney General Janet Reno
for guidance on two Chinese refugee cases as a way of clarifying the
administration's position. Reno declined in December, saying the cases were not
good ones on which to base a policy.

Administration spokesmen would not say whether President Clinton will issue an
executive order on the matter.

Most of the Chinese refugees seeking asylum are married men in their thirties
who have one child, according to Elisa Massimino, a lawyer for the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights, a public interest group working on their behalf. The
refugees, their wives or both are facing mandatory sterilization in most cases,
she said.

"They know the USA means freedom," she said. "Generally, they didn't know what
was going to happen to them when they got here."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              59 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 18, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Critics Decry INS Plan for Asylum Application Fee

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15

LENGTH: 696 words


An Immigration and Naturalization Service plan to charge immigrants seeking
asylum a $ 130 fee and to double their wait for work permits drew criticism
yesterday from immigration reform advocates, who said the procedures would
further complicate immigration processing.

The new procedures on asylum applications are part of a broad Clinton
administration plan to restrict immigration and deter abuses of the asylum
application process.

But advocates of more limited immigration say the proposed procedures do not go
far enough because they will not provide for quick and early exclusion of those
whose claims for political asylum are clearly "frivolous."

Advocates for immigrants' rights, however, complained that the new fee plus the
six months it would take for work permits to be granted are new hurdles intended
to keep foreigners out.

By charging a fee of asylum seekers, the United States would become the only
nation in the world to require those who claim political persecution to pay for
the right to seek safe haven, said Barbara Francis, U.S. spokesperson for the
United Nations High Commission on Refugees, who called the proposed policy
"ironic."

But Attorney General Janet Reno yesterday defended the fee proposal, saying it
could be waived for immigrants who cannot afford it. It is not clear what
criteria immigration officials would use to determine who is eligible for the
waiver or how long that process would take.

The intent of the proposal, said Reno, "is make the asylum process prompt,
current, effective and consistent with due process. We want to make sure that
those who truly deserve asylum are focused upon immediately . . . "

The administration's immigration reform proposals are not new, but they captured
renewed attention Wednesday when Deputy INS Commissioner Chris Sale said during
a speaking engagement that the administration had settled on the $ 130 figure
for its application fee.

An immigration official said the changes are intended "to deter the filing of
spurious claims" that are being used as stepping stones to work permits. Asylum
applicants may apply for a work permit at the same time as applying for asylum.
After 90 days, if the asylum application still is pending, the permit is
granted.

But the new procedures would not allow an immigrant to apply for a work permit
until 150 days after applying for asylum. If the asylum application still is
pending, the permit would be awarded in 30 days.

The proposal also would more than double the current number of asylum
interviewers to 334. The current backlog of applications is more than 330,000,
including 115,000 from fiscal 1993.

Last year, only 35,000 cases were processed, including 11,000 that were dropped
because the applicants never showed up for interviews. Of the remaining 24,000,
22 percent were accepted and 78 percent were rejected. Most asylum seekers last
year were from Central America, China, Haiti, India and Pakistan.

The immigration official estimated that up to one-third of asylum applications
are "boilerplate."

"These are applications that are being sent to us by the hundreds by a few
unscrupulous preparers telling these folks 'this is how I can get you a work
permit,' " the official said. The reform proposals call for the formation of
task forces to crack down on these abusive asylum application preparers.

Lucas Guttentag, of the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrant Rights Project,
said the proposed hurdles to asylum are "an invitation for people to work
without permission or to go hungry while their case is being decided, or not to
apply."

"It's certainly a move intended to deter people from applying for asylum and
it's based on the assumption that a huge number of people who are applying
shouldn't be applying."

But Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which wants to
limit immigration, called the potential effect of the proposed changes "mild and
meaningless."

"It doesn't go to the root of why asylum is out of control," he said. "The root
problem is that today's asylum policy shifts the burden of proof on the
government to try to disprove [immigrants'] claims of persecution."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              60 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 9, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Know Your Nanny Law!

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 227 words


We would like to point out an error in Tracy Thompson's article on nanny
agencies ["Don't Hire a Mary Poppins in a Poke," Metro, Feb. 23].

In her discussion of an employer's Social Security and tax obligations in
connection with hiring a nanny, Ms. Thompson reported that "if the person is a
foreigner, you are obliged to verify that the nanny has a work permit or proof
of citizenship before you hire." This is not entirely accurate. The Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) requires that U.S. employers at the time
of hire verify the identity and employment eligibility of all new employees
through the use of Form I-9 (Employment Eligibility Verification). However,
proof of U.S. citizenship is not required.

Employers who fail to complete Form I-9 properly can be fined by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service for paperwork violations, even if the worker is
authorized to work in the United States. In addition, an employer can be fined
for knowingly hiring or continuing to employ unauthorized workers.

Finally, employers of more than three employees who selectively inquire about a
worker's employment eligibility, visa status or citizenship based on the
worker's "foreign" appearance or accent can be charged by INS with committing a
form of discrimination that is illegal under IRCA.

MARK N. BRAVIN IAN P. BAND Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              61 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 13, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Trains, Planes & Automobiles: Crossing European Borders

Patrick Oster, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: SUNDAY TRAVEL; PAGE E4

LENGTH: 1240 words


When I drove in early March from Brussels to a press conference up in Eindhoven,
traffic on the autoroute didn't even slow when I crossed the border from Belgium
to the Netherlands. On the way back, no one asked me for my passport either.
Good thing too. I'd left it at home in a dresser drawer.

That's the way things are supposed to work in the European Union's year-old
"borderless" single market, which was designed to permit a free flow of goods,
services, money and people inside the 12 EU nations, much like the situation
foreigners experience inside the United States.

But take a plane instead of a car, and you'll find the rules on passports are
different, as I did two weeks before, when I flew from Duesseldorf, Germany, to
Barcelona. There I had to show my U.S. passport to Spanish immigration officials
and fill out special entry cards for non-EU citizens.

Having lived nearly six years in the bickering political atmosphere of Europe,
I've come to expect such different treatment from country to country. But the
patchwork of border-crossing rules may be a bit bewildering for inexperienced
tourists or traveling executives.

In theory, once the market opened Jan. 1, 1993, foreigners, like EU citizens and
residents, were supposed to be able to whisk through airports or other
immigration control points without a time-consuming check of passports or other
documents. But despite treaty promises to do so, the United Kingdom and Ireland
refused to give up their border controls. They argue they don't have any other
effective way to deal with terrorists or the odd rabid dog. The Danes likewise
have dragged their feet. Under an earlier treaty, they use no controls to let in
other Nordics, like Swedes, who are not EU members, so they say they need to
check who's leaving Denmark for other parts of the EU.

Incensed, the other nine EU nations, after meeting in the Luxembourg border town
of Schengen, pledged that they would create at least a nine-nation borderless
market to fulfill the promise of free movement of people. They had hoped to open
it when the single market began. But they missed that and several other
deadlines, the last being Feb. 1 of this year. The Schengen Nine are now so
embarrassed about being late that they've set no new planned opening date.
Chances are it will occur sometime by the end of this year. First, though, they
need to iron out glitches in a computer network they need to track criminals,
illegal immigrants and stolen goods inside the nine nations once border checks,
their current first line of defense, are ended.

Despite such hiccups, you'll still encounter a de facto end to land-route border
checks inside most of the nine Schengen nations -- France, the three Benelux
nations (Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg), Germany, Italy, Spain,
Portugal and Greece. Well, maybe not Greece. It's not contiguous with the other
eight, and its new parliament hasn't yet ratified the treaty that leaders of the
nine nations signed in 1992 to commit themselves to creating their market within
a market.

That means that if you rent a car and drive from, say, Paris to Frankfurt, you
may have to slow down to funnel through the limited lanes at still standing
border-check booths. But the most you're likely to encounter in the way of an
immigration official will be someone looking bored as he drinks coffee or plays
cards. These fellows may stop an occasional car. But usually it is someone with
Eastern European tags -- and a trailerload of goods in tow.

Likewise, on the train, the only person likely to disturb your sleep or novel
reading on your tour through "Schengenland," as the wags call this would-be
market, is likely to be the conductor, as I found on a rail trip in mid-February
from Brussels to Strasbourg, France.

Airports are a different matter, though. Here the old time-consuming delays and
long lines still apply just as they do for arriving international flights and
will continue to do so until the Schengen Nine (or the EU 12) finally get their
border-crossing act together. When that millennium finally does arrive, airports
like Paris's Charles de Gaulle are supposed to have remodeled terminals and
corridors to segregate passengers arriving from outside the EU from those
arriving from sites within it. Intra-EU passengers will have to stop only to
change money or pick up checked bags.

Even then, though, the situation will not be the ideal that architects of the
single market had in mind for travelers. U.K. officials insist they will never
completely drop border checks that are vital to national security. Informally,
they seem to have acceded to a suggestion by the former EU single market
commissioner, Martin Bangemann, who thought up the idea of "the European Wave."
That procedure permits entry into the U.K. with the simple flashing of the
outside cover of any passport from an EU nation in a line reserved for EU
citizens only.

Americans and other foreigners, of course, still have to line up, be it at
Heathrow or the Dover exit to the soon-to-open "Chunnel" linking France and
England by rail tunnel under the English Channel.

Ireland, too, may continue to make arriving passengers fill out anti-terrorist
forms, though it is more conciliatory on such issues than the British. And the
Danes may have their problem solved if Norway, Sweden and Finland become EU
members by next year, as expected.

Even if all these problems are solved, however, don't put your passport in your
checked luggage. Police in any country may still ask you for identification if
you look suspicious, and having nothing better than your driver's license to
show may earn you a night in jail as police sort out who you really are.


Duty Free

The duty-free situation for those traveling inside the single market is no less
complex. The easy part to understand is that there has been no change in rules
for foreign travelers leaving a European Union country for a non-EU destination.
U.S. residents can still shop in duty-free areas (which don't charge sales or
excise taxes) and bring home $ 400 without paying U.S. duty.

For travel inside the EU, there wasn't supposed to be any duty-free shopping. It
is, after all, a borderless market, so travel from Madrid to Copenhagen is
supposed to be like a trip from New York to Chicago. After some serious lobbying
from the lucrative EU duty-free industry, however, the anomaly of duty-free
purchases for intra-EU flights and other travel will be allowed to continue
until 1999. The amount, which covers purchases of scotch, cigarettes,
chocolates, wine, perfume and other things you might buy during a multi-country
European tour, has just been raised from $ 85 to nearly $ 200 at current
exchange rates.

While it may be a relief to know you'll still be able to browse through the
duty-free area while waiting for a flight, remember that many of these shops are
more a convenience than a bargain. Savvy shoppers will find prices at Heathrow
aren't that different from many London stores. The situation is little different
at airports in Brussels or Rome, and Amsterdam's Schipol airport does offer
bargains. But it's best to do a little pre-shopping before splurging at the last
minute. In general, you'll find prices, duty-free or otherwise, are lower where
sales taxes or the cost of living are lower, such as Portugal, Spain, Luxembourg
or Germany.

Patrick Oster is a journalist based in Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              62 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 14, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

An Abundance of Asylum-Seekers;
Overhaul Could Leave 1 Million Immigrants Stuck in Backlog

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1134 words


The Clinton administration's plan to overhaul and expand the political asylum
system would streamline processing of new applicants but still leave as many as
1 million asylum-seekers frozen in a massive backlog for years.

The plan, expected to be formally unveiled this month, would double the number
of officials hearing cases and partially pay for the increased staff by charging
applicants a controversial $ 150 fee. Other measures would sharply curtail
asylum-seekers' access to work authorization that is now routinely issued to
almost all applicants. But officials concede that even under rosy projections,
it could take a decade to deal with the backlog of people awaiting a decision on
their request to be allowed to stay in the United States.

As many as 10,000 new cases are currently added to the backlog each month
because the government does not have enough officials to determine whether they
are deserving. Although no official even verifies their identities, those
applicants are generally allowed to remain in the country indefinitely.

President Clinton ordered a review of the process last July after the World
Trade Center bombing and an influx of Chinese smuggling ships aroused fears that
thousands of illegal immigrants were filing fraudulent asylum claims precisely
because they counted on being assigned to the backlog.

"We have to stop adding to the backlog, and that is a central focus of the
asylum reform plan because otherwise we will never have a system that is fair to
the meritorious applicants and that deals effectively with the abuses," said
Gregg A. Beyer, director of asylum at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

"The backlog is an incentive to file spurious claims," Beyer said, "and it is a
real hardship on legitimate asylum seekers who are prevented from getting on
with their lives."

While the administration insists that no new cases will be added to the backlog
once the new system is in place a year from now, plans for dealing with the
existing backlog are less definite. Beyer calculates that by next March the
backlog will amount to 600,000 cases, representing as many as 1 million people
because some cases involve whole families. That includes 100,000 Central
Americans who will join the backlog at the end of this year because a court
settlement found their cases did not get a fair hearing.

"The logical way to deal with such a large backlog is to provide a legalization
process for the people who have been here the longest," said David Martin, a
professor of law at the University of Virginia who worked as a consultant to the
INS on the asylum plan.

Martin and others foresee that at some point the government may throw up its
hands and grant an amnesty to the backlog cases similar to the one given to
illegal immigrants under the 1986 immigration reform law.

Such a solution, Martin said, is "absolutely unfeasible politically unless there
is a system that has demonstrated for some time that it cannot only stay current
with applicants, not putting any more on the backlog, but also that it can
enforce negative decisions by removing people from the country when their
applications are denied."

Advocates of reform, legislators and administration officials agree that the
huge backlog of cases shows how badly the system is damaged after more than a
decade of litigation, policy changes and crises like the inflows of
asylum-seekers from Central America and Haiti. But there are major disputes over
how to fix it.

The new asylum plan is still undergoing final review at the White House, but it
already faces opposition in Congress from those who favor tougher action and
complain that the proposal fails to adequately address the existing backlog.

"I give it an incomplete," said Rep. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.).

He complained that the administration has not set any time limits for making an
asylum application. Currently, people can enter the country illegally and live
here for years before claiming that they fear persecution in their homeland.

"If you believe in the system, then you should come forward soon after
arriving," Schumer said.

Rep. Bill McCollum (R-Fla.) said, "What they are doing is a Band-Aid. They are
not going to do anything more than slow the growth of the backlog... . It's not
going to remedy some of the basic problems."

McCollum supports quick hearings and, when necessary, quick expulsions, for
people who apply for asylum after arriving without documents or with fraudulent
ones. Many such applicants have been released only to disappear because there
was no space in INS detention centers.

Schumer and McCollum are among the cosponsors of a bill that would include these
provisions among others, and both said they would press their effort as an
alternative to the administration's plan.

Meanwhile, immigrant rights advocates are complaining that the proposed fee for
asylum-seekers and limits on work authorization would be unfair to those who
come here fleeing persecution. They also are concerned about the
administration's reluctance to address the existing backlog.

"Genuine asylum-seekers are owed a solution to their need for a permanent home,
and it is a terrible outcome for them to be relegated to perpetual limbo because
of a lack of governmental commitment," said Arthur C. Helton, director of the
refugee project at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Underlying the debate about complex asylum procedures are simpler questions of
resources and priorities. The administration proposes giving the INS just $ 64.1
million in new funding for the asylum plan, about one-fifth of the total
requested for immigration initiatives.

"Certainly there is no slack in the request," said Deborah Anker, program
coordinator of the Harvard Law School Immigration and Refugee Program. "This
agency has always been falling behind itself on this issue, and now its entire
credibility is on the line."

It took three attempts between 1987 and 1990 to create the Asylum Officer Corps,
which was supposed to produce faster and fairer judgments. With the backlog
still growing the corps was expanded from 82 to 150 officers in 1992, but by
last July when Clinton ordered the review of asylum procedures, they were able
to process only one-quarter of new applications.

Canada, with one-third the number of applications, had almost twice as many
asylum adjudicators in 1992.

The administration proposes adding another 184 asylum officers to the corps.
Beyer argued that this will be sufficient to get a new system up and running,
but he warned that more resources might be necessary soon.

"Reform has been tried several times in the past, and each time it has crashed
on the shoals of inadequate resources," he said. "We do not want that to happen
again, but it is possible."


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, BACKLOG OF POLITICAL ASYLUM CASES (CHART IS NOT AVAILABLE.),
TWP; PHOTO

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              63 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 15, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Marlene Chalmers Locked Up, Then Let Go ;
Judge Sets $ 50,000 Bond In Immigration Case

Bill Miller , Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE E1

LENGTH: 770 words


Marlene Chalmers spent several hours in a federal lockup yesterday, but it could
have been a lot worse. She could have spent the entire weekend in jail. She got
so hysterical when five federal agents came to get her on Friday night, the feds
backed off.

This is the round of adventures titled: "Marlene, the Deportation."

Yesterday the agents returned to Chalmers's condominium in Alexandria and, in an
agreement worked out with her lawyers, finally accompanied the estranged
wife-or-companion of billionaire Jack Kent Cooke to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's office.

For a while, it looked as though she would remain in the government's custody at
least overnight as authorities prepared for a deportation hearing. But thanks to
some last-minute heroics by her lawyers, Chalmers was freed on a $ 50,000 bond.

She left the INS office in Arlington in a limo.

Now the government's long-running battle to deport Chalmers appears headed to a
federal courthouse in Alexandria, where her lawyers intend to open a new,
last-ditch set of appeals stemming from a 1988 deportation order.

The past few days have been especially tumultuous because an immigration appeals
panel recently turned down her appeal to remain in the United States. That
ruling is why the five INS agents came to her door Friday night at the Watergate
at Landmark complex. INS officials said they were following the usual procedures
in handling likely deportees.

But Chalmers wouldn't let the agents in, setting off a long standoff.

Her lawyers worked out an unusual compromise in which Chalmers could stay in her
place over the weekend, but had to surrender yesterday. In the meantime the INS
agents would check up on her by hanging around the complex and by calling her
regularly to make sure she was there.

The details emerged at a hearing late yesterday afternoon before U.S. District
Judge Claude M. Hilton. Chalmers's attorneys -- Robert S. Bennett, Thomas A.
Elliot and Laura Ingraham -- had rushed to the courthouse to get a bond set so
that Chalmers wouldn't have to spend the night in a Manassas jail, where the INS
had intended to take her. Bennett complained repeatedly during the hearing about
the federal agents' tactics in arresting his client.

"She became quite hysterical in the apartment because they were going to take
her into custody," said Bennett, who took the case that night. "We had a very
dangerous situation, we thought."

Bennett is a veteran attorney and player on Capitol Hill who was special counsel
to the Senate Ethics Committee during the Keating Five investigation and who now
represents embattled Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D-Ill.). He contended that there was
no reason to lock Chalmers up in the first place, let alone to handcuff her and
perform a full body search, as the authorities did in Arlington yesterday
morning.

"The INS wants to say that she wants to flee, but the nature of the whole
dispute is she wants to stay here," Bennett said. "She wants to stay in
Washington. ... It would be a terrible injustice for this lady to be locked up."

Assistant U.S. Attorney Rachel Ballow cited media reports of Chalmers being
spotted last month at the Mexican villa of David Chalmers, who, depending on
whether you believe Jack Kent Cooke, is either her current or former husband.
She noted that one reason Marlene Chalmers's INS appeal was turned down was
because she had left the country at least seven other times while appealing a
deportation order, in apparent violation of federal law. Ballow urged the judge
to set a $ 1 million bond. "Here's someone who has the resources to do many
things."

Hilton decreed, however, that Chalmers "is obviously not going anywhere," and he
criticized the agents for showing up at her doorstep late Friday, saying:
"Everybody can play cute. These Friday evening arrests are calculated for one
thing, and that's to keep somebody in jail over the weekend."

The judge set the $ 50,000 bond about 4:15 p.m., giving the legal team 45
minutes to post it at the clerk's office. They beat the deadline as Chalmers,
who did not attend the court hearing, waited in her tiny cell at the INS office.

Chalmers was smiling as she left the office by limo before 6, waving cheerily to
a horde of reporters.

"Thank you very much!" she yelled out.  And then, "Bye, everybody."

She rode off before answering one very important question:

Who is paying for all this?

Jack Kent Cooke, asked last night if the bills would be coming to him, declined
all comment, except to say that he was "just enjoying a glass of wine." He
sounded in remarkably good spirits.




LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, A SMILING MARLENE CHALMERS LEAVES THE INS OFFICE IN ARLINGTON
YESTERDAY AFTERNOON. HARRY NALTCHAYAN

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              64 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 23, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Prosecutors Defend Marlene Chalmers;
Letters Oppose Deportation, Tell of Help Against Drug Kingpins

Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 862 words


Three current and former federal prosecutors have written letters supporting
Marlene Chalmers in her bid to remain in the United States, saying that she
worked undercover to help them round up major drug dealers and that she would
face "grave danger" if forced to return to her native Bolivia.

The letters, which say Chalmers helped secure the convictions of more than 30
"high-level narcotics traffickers," are being cited by her lawyers as they wage
a last-ditch effort to prevent federal authorities from deporting her because of
a 1986 drug conviction of her own.

One letter, written by Assistant U.S. Attorney Justin W. Williams, says Chalmers
provided "extremely valuable cooperation and testimony against very significant
drug traffickers" from 1988 to 1990, and it warns that the drug kingpins she
helped convict have a "long and unforgiving memory."

Written last fall at the request of Chalmers's attorneys and recently obtained
by The Washington Post, the letters mark yet another twist in a long-running
dispute over whether Chalmers should be allowed to remain in the country.
Chalmers gained prominence after her 1990 marriage to Washington Redskins owner
Jack Kent Cooke, who recently declared the union illegal.

One of her attorneys, Robert S. Bennett, accused the federal government
yesterday of backing out of promises to permit her to remain in the United
States in return for her help in prosecuting the drug cases.

The promises were made by federal authorities in the late 1980s, when Chalmers
was testifying before grand juries and in criminal trials, Bennett said.
Although the promises were never put into any signed agreement, he contended
that they should protect his client against deportation.

Chalmers, whose age is listed in court records as 41, began cooperating with
prosecutors and the Drug Enforcement Administration after she pleaded guilty in
1986 to a charge of conspiracy to import cocaine. She spent four months in
federal prison and then turned informer, identifying drug dealers and working
undercover to penetrate cocaine rings, according to the letters.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials arrested Chalmers last week at
her Alexandria condominium after an immigration panel rejected her appeal of an
INS deportation order. The INS said she should be deported not only because of
the drug conviction, but also because she left the country repeatedly while
appealing the deportation order.

The letters from the prosecutors give a new dimension to Chalmers, who is best
known for her social escapades and skirmishes with police, such as last year's
arrest in Georgetown on a drunken driving charge.

"This woman is being taken advantage of," said Bennett, a prominent lawyer whose
clients have included Washington lawyer Clark M. Clifford, former defense
secretary Caspar Weinberger and Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D-Ill.)

"She provided a tremendous service to the United States," he said. "Now that her
services are complete, she should not be tossed in a trash can. It's a matter of
honor and principle that the Justice Department has to stand by."

INS officials said yesterday that they never signed an agreement not to deport
Chalmers.

"We're doing everything we can to try to ensure we handle her case the same as
we would anyone else," said INS spokesman Verne Jervis.

The letters -- gathered by lawyers as they prepared their appeal last year --
provide the first detailed look at the help Chalmers provided to federal agents.
Besides those written to Chalmers's attorneys last fall, prosecutors wrote
letters to the INS, including one in May 1987 that sought special consideration
for Chalmers -- then Marlene Ramallo -- in return for her help.

In a letter last September to Thomas A. Elliot, one of Chalmers's attorneys,
Williams, the assistant U.S. attorney, said authorities should explore "any
lawful means" to permit Chalmers to remain in the United States as a resident
alien. "We believe that our office has a responsibility to protect the safety of
those who have risked their own lives in cooperating with the United States as
informants and witnesses against international drug traffickers," the letter
said. Williams would not comment yesterday because the case is pending.

The letters do not list all the matters in which Chalmers provided help. But
court records show that she aided prosecutors in the 1989 case against Roberto
Esteban Fuentes and Alfredo Martinez-Cabre, who were convicted under drug
kingpin laws of running a distribution network that supplied cocaine to Chevy
Chase, Georgetown, Bethesda and the District.

Henry E. Hudson, who was U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia
while Chalmers was helping investigations, wrote letters to the INS in 1987 and
again in 1990, praising her cooperation and commitment. He repeated those views
in a letter last fall, as did one of his top assistants, Liam O'Grady.

Hudson said yesterday that he joined DEA officials in the late 1980s in urging
that the INS find a way to allow Chalmers to remain in the country. But he
added, "I don't have any specific recollections of exactly what representations
INS made."


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHALMERS GAINED PROMINENCE AFTER 1990 MARRIAGE TO JACK KENT
COOKE.

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              65 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 26, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

INS Grants Asylum To Protect Gay Man

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


U.S. immigration officials for the first time have granted asylum to a gay
Mexican man who said his life would be in danger because of his homosexuality if
he were returned to Mexico.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in Washington earlier this week
approved a recommendation that a man using the pseudonym Jose Garcia receive
asylum after he told of suffering "unspeakable degradations" in Mexico,
including being raped by a police officer.

Garcia's lawyer, Ron Silberstein, said yesterday the case marked the first time
the INS had acknowledged that a homosexual may belong to a persecuted social
group that deserves asylum under the Refugee Act of 1980. Garcia illegally
entered the United States 12 years ago.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              66 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 14, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition;
                              Correction Appended

U.S. Halts Immigrant Fingerprint Checks

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 563 words


Despite administration pledges to crack down on criminals and terrorists
slipping into the country as immigrants, the federal government has stopped
running routine fingerprint checks on immigrants, a procedure that has blocked
thousands of people a year from entering the United States because of criminal
records.

In a policy change effective April 1, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS) now will send only a handful of fingerprints from prospective immigrants
to the FBI for a criminal record check and only in exceptional cases

Applicants for a wide range of immigration benefits including citizenship,
permanent residence and political asylum will continue to submit fingerprints to
the INS.

An internal memorandum from INS headquarters here to offices around the world
states that although the agency "is taking this action reluctantly, it is
necessary due to the current budget situation."

Richard Kenney, an INS spokesman, said the agency hopes to save $ 3 million the
remaining six months of the fiscal year by drastically reducing what he termed
"an expensive, labor-intensive process."

In 1993 nearly 890,000 sets of prints were sent to the FBI for criminal record
check, and less than 1 percent had applications turned down, Kenney said.

That amounts to nearly 9,000 people who were kept from acquiring immigrant
status here last year because they had been convicted of a felony or had some
other serious criminal matter on record with the FBI.

In the wake of the shooting outside the CIA headquarters in Langley, the World
Trade Center bombing in New York and other recent violent incidents, there has
been growing public concern that terrorists and other malefactors are too
readily entering the United States as immigrants.

The costs of incarcerating immigrants who commit crimes once they are in this
country has been a further cause of concern, lawmakers say.

With Congress demanding action, President Clinton unveiled a package of
proposals July 27 which he said would deal with "the growing problems of
immigrant smuggling and international terrorists hiding behind immigrant
status."

Among the measures promised was greater coordination among federal agencies.

Attorney General Janet Reno complained at the announcement ceremony that the INS
"too often did not communicate with law enforcement and vice-versa." She said,
"It is imperative that we bring everyone together to communicate to do
everything that we can to address the critical issue of terrorism."

Demetrios Papademetriou, director of the immigration policy program at the
Carnegie Endowment, said, "On the face of it giving up this form of cooperation
with the FBI seems rather inconsistent with the administration's law-and-order
body language on immigration."

The memorandum ordering the new policy makes clear budget constraints are behind
the change. Aside from cases involving orphans coming into the United States,
the memorandum calls for a 95 percent cut in FBI fingerprint checks and requires
senior regional officials to submit a written justification for every request to
INS headquarters.

Kenney of the INS said no specific criteria had been developed for determining
what would now justify a fingerprint check. He said adequate screening would be
accomplished by checking applicants' names in data bases with the identities of
known criminals.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: Because of incomplete information provided by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, an article yesterday incorrectly reported that some
immigrants seeking to enter the country from abroad would be among those granted
immigrant status without having their fingerprints checked by the FBI. Actually,
the new policy eliminating routine fingerprint checks applies only to immigrants
who are already in the country and are seeking a new immigration status such as
citizenship or political asylum.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              67 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 24, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

High Hurdles for Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C6; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 336 words


The March 31 editorial on the Immigration and Naturalization Service's asylum
reform proposal implied that immigrants' rights advocacy groups support new fees
and other restrictions on asylum applicants. This is not the case.

While we support much of the INS plan -- which will result in streamlined,
prompt and fair asylum adjudications -- we believe that the INS erects two
hurdles that will not deter fraud but will only hurt genuine refugees -- the $
130 filing fee and the six-month wait for work authorization.

Most refugees do not arrive in the United States with fat bank accounts. Most
are fleeing for their lives. And most must find work to feed themselves and
their children while they wait for the INS to make a decision on their case.

To wait six months for permission to work is a hardship that will only drive
tens of thousands of asylum seekers into the underground economy to be exploited
and abused. Requiring those refugees to pay a fee while denying them permission
to earn money to pay it only compounds the injury.

Most asylum seekers are not frauds. One-third are Guatemalans and Salvadorans
who continue to flee death-squad threats and human-rights abuses.

One-fifth come from China -- where repressive family-planning policies result in
forced sterilization -- and from Haiti, where military thugs leave more than a
dozen bodies on garbage piles every week.

Most of the rest come from the former Soviet republics and Eastern Europe and
from African and Asian nations where violent, repressive regimes hold power.

The backlog of asylum cases is not the result of rampant abuse. It is the
product of underfunding, inadequate staffing and poor management, factors that
resulted in fewer than 22,000 asylum decisions in 1993.

Prompt and fair hearings, not high fees and harsh work rules, will deter fraud
and bring relief to those who truly deserve it.  JEANNE A. BUTTERFIELD
Washington The writer is a senior policy analyst for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              68 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 30, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Canadians Cancel Speech, Threaten Arrest of Farrakhan Ex-Aide

Anne Swardson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 29, 1994


A scheduled speech here Sunday by Khalid Abdul Muhammad, the controversial
former aide to Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, threatened today to
provoke a confrontation as Canadian authorities said he is not allowed in this
country and will be arrested and possibly deported if found.

It was not clear whether Muhammad already has entered Canada. On Thursday,
immigration officials said they were watching for him at border checkpoints
after being notified by a Jewish group of his planned speech. Brother Donnie X,
a leader of the Nation of Islam in Toronto, told reporters he could not comment
on Muhammad's whereabouts.

"We're told he is in Canada, but to my knowledge no one has seen him," said
Lucille LeBlanc, spokeswoman for the regional office of the immigration
ministry. "Our immigration investigators are well aware of the case and will
take action [if they locate Muhammad]."

Muhammad has made waves in the United States with public remarks deemed
insulting to Jews, Catholics and other groups, including comments in a speech at
Washington's Howard University last week. His possible arrival in Canada -- his
second public trip to this country in two years -- threatened to unleash the
same kind of tensions between ethnic groups that have followed him in the United
States.

Black activists in Toronto made veiled remarks today complaining about the
Canadian Jewish Congress, the Jewish group that brought Muhammad's speech to the
attention of immigration authorities.

Well-known activist Dudley Laws said: "We have a right to listen to people we
invite, people of all races. People who think they can muzzle the black
community, people who call the minister of immigration... . We should be able to
support whom we want."

Immigration officials said Muhammad was considered inadmissible to Canada
because he has a prior criminal conviction -- for fraud in 1987 for using a
false Social Security number in Georgia -- and because there was reason to
believe he would violate Canada's laws against "hate propaganda."

Last year, after a speech at a Montreal university, he was asked to appear
before an immigration inquiry to discuss his status, but he left the country.

Last week, Muhammad spoke to 2,000 people at Howard University, comparing the
Jewish Holocaust to the "black holocaust" and telling his audience that he
"loves" Colin Ferguson, a black man who allegedly killed six people on a Long
Island commuter train. Last November, Muhammad told a New Jersey audience that
Jews were "sucking [blacks'] blood on a daily and consistent basis."

In February, responding to criticism from other African-American leaders,
Farrakhan relieved Muhammad as a top aide, saying his remarks were "vile" and
"repugnant."

Muhammad was originally scheduled to speak Saturday evening at the University of
Toronto, but the university canceled the booking Thursday after officials
learned that Muhammad was the planned speaker. The speech was rescheduled for
Sunday in a commercial auditorium.

University vice provost Dan Lang said a group called the Black Youth Congress
had rented a 450-seat hall in the medical school for a meeting without saying
Muhammad would be speaking.

The school canceled the booking because the group misrepresented the occasion
and because Muhammad would be in Canada illegally, Lang said.



LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, KHALID MUHAMMAD

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              69 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 22, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Opening Asylum Doors for Women;
Guidelines for Assessing Gender Persecution Are Proposed to INS

Nancie L. Katz, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 1118 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


Spurred by public horror over mass rapes in Bosnia and other crimes, advocates
are making progress in recasting U.S. asylum policy to be more open to women.

Two Cambridge lawyers have proposed guidelines to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service that would make the process more accessible to persecuted
immigrant women. They also are seeking, as contributing Harvard University
professor Deborah Anker put it, "recognition that the asylum law hasn't been
applied fairly to women."

Women in various parts of the world have been gang-raped by guerrillas or
soldiers in wartime, genitally mutilated by tradition in parts of Africa or
immolated in India by husbands enraged by dowry demands. And, in many cases,
police or governments do not interfere.

The United Nations, Canada and some European countries have recognized such acts
as gender persecution but, in the United States, the INS has categorized these
crimes as personal. Now, Anker and guidelines author Nancy Kelly want the INS to
view such acts as political persecution rather than a cultural burden women must
bear.

"The principal problem in dealing with human rights abuses and asylum cases
regarding women is distinguishing between the private and the public realm.
Somehow what happens to women is not considered important," said Kelly, director
of the Women's Refugee Project, which presented the guidelines. "What happens to
a man is considered political and public. What happens to a woman is personal
and cultural."

Advocates contend the INS traditionally has not looked at women as having asylum
claims separate from their spouses. Nor has the processing system allowed for a
woman traumatized by sexual violence to feel safe in presenting her story, they
say. And immigration lawyers can list cases of persecuted women they advise to
stay illegal rather than risk losing an asylum case under current INS
interpretations of the law.

At the INS asylum office in Washington, director Gregg Beyer said officials are
taking the proposed guidelines "very seriously" and may issue their own within a
few weeks.

"We are in agreement that something should be done, and in general agree with
what they're talking about," Beyer said in an interview. He said the INS could
concede that women could make up a persecuted "social group" under certain
circumstances, but he called the legal issues "complicated and complex,"
particularly when the INS has to determine whether a foreign country is
effectively attempting to deal with a practice.

An even thornier issue is government handling of domestic violence. "The idea
that rape is only a personal problem is obviously wrong. That all rapes are
political is also wrong," Beyer said. "We have to look at all the issues
carefully and seek out guidance for the officers."

Beyer said the INS has expanded its information network so its officers better
understand the situation of women in foreign countries.

Critics charge the proposed guidelines smack of cultural imperialism and could
encourage mass immigration of women to this country.

"There's this effort to jimmy open a program that cannot possibly accommodate
these kind of claims," said Dan Stein, head of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform in Washington. "It's just not feasible [to allow in] women
who don't want to live in a country because they don't like the culture. That's
not the proper role of asylum policy."

Beyer and advocates called such "floodgate" fears baseless. They note few women
have the resources, mobility or will to come to this country and point to
Canada, which has had only 350 cases since deciding to accept gender persecution
claims in March 1993.

The proposed guidelines have emerged as test cases crop up across the country
that ask immigration judges to recognize gender-based persecution. Last year a
federal court in Philadelphia recognized the validity of the idea but still
turned down an Iranian woman who feared she would be persecuted if she disobeyed
her government's strictures on women.

In a widely publicized Oregon case, a judge suspended on humanitarian grounds
the deportation of a Nigerian woman who wanted to shield her daughters from
genital mutilation. But he refused to address the question of whether the
practice could be considered persecution.

There also have been congressional efforts to aid battered women already living
in this country without proper immigration documents. The House crime bill
includes a provision in the Violence Against Women Act to permit spouses of
permanent residents or U.S. citizens to petition for legal status. Now, only
legal U.S. residents can file for spouses, a provision abusive husbands can use
to prevent battered wives from leaving them, according to advocates.

Under current law, a refugee can seek asylum based on persecution because of
race, nationality, religion, political opinion or membership in a particular
social group.

The proposed guidelines -- endorsed by 30 organizations -- seek to provide a
framework for INS officers and judges to view persecuted women under the
categories of social group or political opinion. But they also suggest
procedural changes in interviews that until now have deterred some women even
from bringing forth a claim.

Advocates say credibility becomes an issue because women intimidated by a
hostile system will change their stories in court. "You have women who have
suffered a great deal who are denied asylum simply because their story doesn't
come out," said Regan Ralph, attorney for the Women's Rights Project of Human
Rights Watch.

The story of a 36-year-old woman who fled India in 1990 offers what advocates
say is one compelling example of what is wrong with the current system. By mere
fortune, she and her 8-year-old daughter were able to make their way to the
United States after years of abuse by a husband dissatisfied with her dowry.

The woman, who insisted on anonymity, said her husband repeatedly beat, raped
and choked her, once slitting her veins with the wrist bangles that married
women traditionally wear. When she left him, she became a social outcast, a
"loose woman" prey to male sexual advances.

The woman is sure her husband would burn her to death if she returned to India.
She also fears her daughter would be enslaved until her husband's family could
reap the child's inheritance. But she is undecided whether to apply for
political asylum, not wanting to risk being turned down and sent back. Her
husband has published her photograph and offered a reward for her return.

"If I go back and I am identified, I'll definitely be killed by him," she said.
"I do not know what will happen to my daughter. My hands shake all the time."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              70 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 25, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Bowie Au Pair Service Operator Arrested;
Immigration Officials Say Irish Women Worked Here on Tourist Visas

Louis Aguilar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 600 words


A Bowie woman was arrested yesterday and charged with bringing young women from
Northern Ireland to the United States without proper visas to work as nannies.

Janie Renee Cochran, 40, was arrested by U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials at her home and charged with six counts of harboring and
encouraging entry of illegal immigrants and three counts of mail fraud.

If convicted, Cochran could face up to 45 years in prison and $ 2 million in
fines. After a magistrate's hearing, she was released without having to post
bond.

Her attorney, William Renahan, declined comment.

From August 1992 to August 1993, Cochran recruited six women from Northern
Ireland to work as live-in au pairs in the Washington area, according to the
federal grand jury indictment.

The women came to the United States on tourist visa waivers granted routinely to
citizens of the United Kingdom for vacations of up to three months. It is
illegal for such visitors to work here.

Cochran allegedly arranged work for the women and then ordered them to tell
immigration officials upon their arrival that they were here on vacation, the
indictment said. Cochran told the Irish women to bring only a small amount of
clothing and a return ticket to the United Kingdom to further mislead INS
officials, the indictment said.

Officials also accused Cochran of misleading families seeking au pairs about the
immigration status of the women. No one who hired one of the illegal au pairs is
under investigation, said Robert Thomas, an assistant U.S. attorney in
Baltimore.

According to Megan Megale, regional coordinator for EurAupair, a
government-approved au pair service, Cochran recruited the women from the town
of Newry. Four of the Irish women who Cochran allegedly helped bring to the
United States called Megale out of the blue last year and told her they had been
living in a garage in Bowie for two weeks, Megale said in an interview.

"I basically helped them escape from Janie," Megale said.

Au pairs differ from nannies -- professional child-care providers who also
typically perform a full range of housekeeping tasks -- in that they are
expected to work only on child care and related chores, are allowed to work no
more than 45 hours a week, and are expected to learn about American culture.

Au pairs are granted 13-month "J-1" visas by the U.S Information Agency as part
of a cultural exchange. Most au pairs are female and are 18 to 25 years old.

U.S. families pay as much as $ 3,400 in advance fees to legitimate agencies,
plus $ 100 a week to the au pairs. That works out to about $ 175 a week,
compared with $ 250 to $ 400 a week paid in salary and Social Security taxes to
live-in nannies.

Cochran ran her business under several business names, including Inter AuPair,
International Nanny Placement Service, A Touch of Ireland and HELP (Household
Employee Leasing Program).

The six Irish women named in the indictment as Cochran's victims are all related
to each other, and immigration officials have given them temporary work visas in
exchange for cooperation in the case against Cochran. Some are now working as
legitimate au pairs, Megale said.

Megale said that since the smuggling allegations were made public last year, the
Irish women have been deluged with interview requests from both sides of the
Atlantic, but INS officials told them not to go public until Cochran's trial is
over.

"They're all dying to go on 'Oprah,' " Megale said, referring to the daytime
television show, "but they're scared to death because the [INS] told them don't
talk to the press."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              71 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 8, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Female Circumcision an Issue in Deportation

Reuter

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C2

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Feb. 7


A Nigerian woman went before federal immigration officials today to plead that
she be allowed to stay in the United States to protect her two daughters from
female circumcision. The case is believed to be the first in which the prospect
of the ancient rite has been raised in an effort to block deportation.

If officials decide to deport the woman, Lydia Oluloro, she would have to either
give up her daughters, Shade, 6, and Lara, 4, or take them back to Nigeria where
they face almost certain mutilation of their sexual organs, said Janet Estoup, a
paralegal working on Oluloro's defense.

"Every woman in her family has been circumcised," said Estoup. "She has been
told by her family that her children will be cut because 'we don't want any
American whores running around to embarrass the family.' " Oluloro faces
deportation because her ex-husband, Emanuel Oluloro, a legal U.S. resident,
failed to file a spousal petition to legalize her residency.

The painful operation, often done without anesthetic, involves the cutting away
of the clitoris or the inner lips of the vagina. The procedure, which frequently
causes infections and other complications, is common in parts of Africa, the
Middle East and Southeast Asia, and occurs occasionally in the United States,
mainly to children born of African parents.

Oluloro, 32, grew up in Nigeria's Yoruba tribe and underwent circumcision as a
child. She said she believed it was a proper custom until she moved to the
United States.

She said sexual problems resulting from the operation helped destroy her
marriage and asked for a suspension of the deportation order on grounds of
"extreme hardship."

Oluloro's former husband, who wants custody of the girls, has told reporters he
opposes female circumcision and believes his wife's claim is "a tactic that her
lawyer is using."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              72 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 28, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Employers Put Burden Of Proof on Salvadorans;
Many Said to Be Unaware of Work Extension

Ricardo Castillo, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A17

LENGTH: 847 words


Scores of employers in the Washington area, confused about the immigration
status of their Salvadoran workers, are pressuring them to come up with new
documents to keep their jobs, local social service agencies and immigrants say.

There are approximately 37,000 Salvadoran immigrants who can legally work in the
Washington area under a special federal program that was to expire Tuesday. Last
month, the federal government said those immigrants can continue working until
at least October. But many of the area's estimated 200,000 Salvadorans and the
people who employ them haven't heard about the change.

Among them is Jose Martinez, who is trying to keep his dishwashing job at the
Best Western Skyline Inn at 10 I St. SW in the District.

Martinez, 34, a former fisherman in his home town of La Union, said he was told
by his boss that he needs a letter from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service or a new work permit to keep his job.

Martinez sought assistance last week at CARECEN, a volunteer social service
agency in Mount Pleasant that helps Salvadorans with immigration problems. "They
told me at work that I couldn't have my job there anymore," he said in Spanish.
"But I've heard that President Bush has given us new permissions and that I
don't need a permit right away."

Added Martinez: "I will talk to my boss again, but it is difficult because I
don't speak English."

Donald Percy, the food and beverage manager at the hotel and Martinez's boss,
said he didn't have any problem employing Martinez as long as he saw proof of
the extension from the INS.

"But I don't want to go to jail for anybody or to pay a large fine because we
have someone working without proper documents," he said. "My employers would not
appreciate that."

Employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants risk up to $ 10,000 in fines and
six months in prison.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the INS, said employers are not required to dismiss
anyone who is registered to work under the Temporary Protective Status program.

"The automatic extension allows all employers to keep their Salvadoran workers
until Oct. 31, without regard to the expiration of their INS document," he said.
After Oct. 31, Salvadorans will not be deported, but must have new paperwork to
continue working.

The INS has not directly informed either employers or Salvadorans under the
program about the extension. The agency plans to open a temporary office in
Mount Pleasant next month to issue new permits.

But Jose Lidio Chavez already may be out of time. Chavez, 30, says his boss at
United States Service Industry, a local management company, told him not to come
to work tomorrow if he didn't have a new permit by then.  His boss could not be
reached for comment.

"I didn't know that there was an extension," said Chavez, a farmer from San
Miguel Province in El Salvador. "But if it is part of the law, I am going back
to tell him because I don't think he knows."

About 50 Salvadorans attended an outdoor meeting in Mount Pleasant last weekend
at which CARECEN officials discussed their immigration status. Most of the
Salvadorans were poorly educated. Several worked as maids or in landscaping.

That's fairly typical of local Salvadorans, many of whom were poor farmers or
laborers from rural areas in El Salvador who fled that country's civil war. They
often are illiterate in Spanish and confused about how the government operates
here.

Last week, for instance, Salome Mendoza and Heriberto Martinez, both of whom
were farmers in El Salvador, said they were told they could not collect their
paychecks at Recycling Inc. in Takoma Park. The reason: Company records showed
that their work permits were about to expire.

"They told me that I wouldn't get paid until I come up with new papers," said
Salome, 37, who has been in Washington for five years. "But that is work I did,
and that is money I've earned."

They sent a photocopy of an INS news release about the extension of the program
to Cherry Robin of Employer's Resources, which processes the payroll and handles
personnel matters for Recycling Inc.

"I tried to contact someone at INS to verify that INS [news release]," Robin
said, "but I always got a recording. Finally, I could speak to someone who told
me it was true all about the extension. Otherwise these workers would have been
fired."

The Temporary Protected Status program was started in 1990 after Congress passed
a law barring deportation of Salvadorans who had entered the country illegally
before 1989.

Under the terms of the extension authorized by President Bush, the program will
run until June 1993. But people covered by the program must register again with
the INS by Oct. 31. Those who fail to do so will not be able to continue working
legally.

The Bush administration extended the program despite peace agreements signed in
Mexico in January between guerrillas and the Salvadoran government. It concluded
that human-rights violations continue in El Salvador and that the return of
thousands of people would add to the economic pains of that country.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOSE ABEL CHAVEZ, 22, WAITS FOR HELP FROM JULIO LOPEZ AT
CARECEN, THE SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCY IN MOUNT PLEASANT THAT AIDS SALVADORANS WITH
IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS. HEATHER STONE

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              73 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 2, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

AROUND THE NHL

From News Services

SECTION: SPORTS; PAGE B2

LENGTH: 98 words


PROBERT CASE: U.S. immigration officials in Detroit called Bob Probert a
dangerous driver who is a threat to the general public, and they question
whether his rehabilitation is sincere.

The differing pictures of the Red Wings forward appear in documents obtained by
the Detroit News from the Board of Immigration Appeals in Falls Church.

Probert, an Ontario native, has been battling the INS since a 1989 conviction
for trying to bring cocaine into the United States from Canada.


STAYING PUT: A deal was reached Tuesday to keep the Jets in Winnipeg until at
least 1997.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              74 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 9, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

INS Moves To Deprt Cooke's Wife;
Action Against bolivian Stems From '86 Drug Case

Al Kamen, Robert F. Howe, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 994 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun deportation proceedings
against Marlene Chalmers Cooke, the Bolivian-born wife of Washington Redskins
owner Jack Kent Cooke, because of her past involvement in a drug-smuggling ring.

The INS is expected this week to issue a show-cause order, the immigration
equivalent of an indictment, to Marlene Cooke, who pleaded guilty in 1986 to a
charge of conspiracy to import cocaine.

She came to this country in 1975 to join her mother, who had a resident alien
permit or "green card," and then obtained her own permit in the early 1980s,
according to sources familiar with her immigration status. Working as a
part-time instructor at Spa Lady in Alexandria, she listed her assets in 1988 as
$ 8 in cash and $ 5 in a savings account.

In the late 1980s she became a close friend of Suzanne Martin Cooke, the
billionaire's third wife.  That marriage ended in divorce in 1988, and Marlene
Chalmers and Cooke married on May 5, 1990.  She was 37.  He was 77.

Friends say they have never seen Jack Kent Cooke as happy as he has been with
Marlene.

She is at his side at every Redskins game in designer fashions, and wearing a
huge square-cut diamond ring he gave her.

Under U.S. immigration law, her marriage to an American citizen does not
automaticallymake her a citizen or protect her from deportation on the drug
charge. At one point in the 1980s she applied for citizenship, sources said, but
it was not clear what happened to her petition.

The deportation case stems from a 1986 guilty plea Marlene Cooke entered in the
cocaine smuggling case. At the time, she agreed to cooperate with investigators
and appeared before the grand jury, all at the U.S. attorney's request,
according to court records.

Her assistance in drug investigations, and her later legal problems, effectively
delayed any actions the INS might have taken against her because of her drug
felony conviction.

INS officials believe they have a strong case against Marlene Cooke, but a
lawyer familiar with the proceedings predicted that her husband's attorneys will
be able to "get her out of it." In a previous check-bouncing case, Marlene Cooke
was represented by John T. "Til" Hazel Jr., the powerful Northern Virginia
developer and lawyer who rarely handles criminal cases.

Reached by phone yesterday, Jack Kent Cooke said he had not heard about any
potential problems his wife might have with the immigration service.

Should legal efforts fail to stop her deportation, the Cookes would have at
least legislative remedy to pursue : A member of Congress could introduce a
private bill on Marlene Cooke's behalf, to permit her to remain in the country.
Such bills are rarely passed.

According to sources familiar with the case, the INS began deportation
proceedings against Cooke within the past year.  After an administrative
immigration judge found that she should be deported, her attorneys filed an
appeal, the sources said.

Cooke ran into a problem, however, when she left the country briefly on a trip
before that appeal was resolved, the sources said. "It was in effect a
self-deportation," said one source, noting that if a person who is ordered to
leave the country does so voluntarily, authorities do not usually expect them to
return.

Though she returned, the trip jeopardized her appeal, sources said. Within the
next few days INS officials are expected to ask an immigration judge to dismiss
her appeal and demand that she explain to the court why she should not be
deported immediately, sources said.

It could not be learned where she went on her trip or how she was able to
reenter the country while deportation proceedings were underway in the United
States. One INS official said the trip was made on a small, private plane and
that an immigration or customs inspector apparently "made a mistake."

Marlene Cooke's response to a new show cause order and possible appeals could
last several months, sources said.

Thomas A. Elliot, an attorney who specializes in immigration matters,
acknowledged that he currently represents her, but would not comment on the case
because "it's a matter before the authorities."

Cooke's residency permit was put in jeopardy in 1986 after she was charged with
conspiracy to import cocaine, importing cocaine, distribution and possession
with intent to distribute cocaine, and travel in foreign commerce from National
Airport in aid of racketeering, according to court records.

She became what is known as a "deportable alien" after pleading guilty to a
lesser charge of conspiracy to import less than a kilogram of cocaine. Other
charges relating to the Bolivian drug-smuggling scheme were dismissed, according
to court records.

She lived with a man named Angel Miguens from about 1975 to 1981, according to
the records. Miguens was involved in illegal activity, the records said, and it
was through him that she became involved with the drug dealers.

She was sentenced to six months and served about four months in a federal prison
in Alderson, W.Va.

Marlene Cooke, who became Jack Kent Cooke's fourth wife in May 1990, was
arrested in April 1988 on a felony charge of writing four bad checks for $ 285
to a local business. That charge was dropped a month later by Commonwealth's
Attorney Robert F. Horan Jr., who cited her help as a witness in the drug cases.

More recently, she was involved in a shooting incident in the couple's Northwest
Washington home in May in which she received a gunshot wound to her hand.

The D.C. corporation counsel's office, after reviewing the matter, announced
last month that Jack Kent Cooke would not be charged with possessing an
unregistered firearm.

The Cookes said in a statement that Marlene Cooke discovered a gun while she was
exploring an antique chest that had been brought from the Cookes' home in
Middleburg, Va., and accidentally shot herself in the finger.

Staff writer Richard Justice contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MARLENE CHALMERS COOKE.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              75 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 3, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Slow INS Response Thwarts Foreign Investment Program

JANE APPLEGATE

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F9; JANE APPLEGATE

LENGTH: 631 words


A federal program designed to encourage foreigners to invest millions of dollars
in U.S. small businesses is receiving a lukewarm reception, despite its promise
of 10,000 visas for the investors and their families.

When the "Alien Entrepreneur" program was launched last fall, Senate immigration
subcommittee members said the investor visa program could attract as much as $ 4
billion in capital and create as many as 40,000 jobs a year.

But people trying to put the deals together say the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's slow response is thwarting their efforts to revive
hundreds of U.S. small businesses.

"The INS couldn't have butchered the implementation any more than they did,"
said Harold Ezell, former commissioner of the INS's western region.

Ezell founded Ezell Group, a Newport Beach, Calif., consulting company, after
leaving the agency in July 1989.

"We submitted our first application on Sept. 30," Ezell said. "It took until
Feb. 1 to get it through."

So far, the INS has received 343 applications. As of May, the service had
approved 53 and denied three, according to Duke Austin, spokesman for the INS in
Washington. The southern region received 124, the Western region 107, the
Northern region 58 and the Eastern region 54. The program requires investors to
invest $ 1 million in businesses in urban areas or $ 500,000 in businesses in
rural areas. The money must create at least 10 full-time jobs within two years.

Austin defended the INS application processing system and pointed out that
Congress, not the INS or the Bush administration, initiated the investor visa
program.

"We don't go begging for people," he said. "We have 3 million people waiting in
the queue, and some have been waiting for eight or nine years." While the INS
had no expectations for the program, Congress and the business community
"clearly expected a bigger response."

Austin and others said a major drawback for foreign investors is that the
program requires that all their income be subject to U.S. taxes. Still, the few
U.S. business owners who have benefited from the program say that it's a good
idea.

"We see it as a win-win situation," said David Lamb, general partner of Stratham
Group in Newport Beach. Lamb's firm was among the first to benefit from the
program.

Ezell introduced Lamb to a Taiwanese family that put up $ 1 million to form a
limited real estate partnership. The partnership owns a piece of property and is
setting up a property management company.

Although it took more than a year for the deal to come together, the money came
in last fall.

In addition to hiring Ezell's firm, Lamb also needed an immigration attorney to
handle the visa paperwork.

Although they are still abroad, Lamb's Taiwanese partners participate in board
meetings and are learning the property management business.

"Eventually, we would like to hire 30, 40 or 50 new employees for the company
we've created," said Lamb, who now employs 180.

Jon Basel, a San Pedro, Calif., management consultant, is trying to match Hong
Kong investors with U.S. business owners.

He said foreign investors are looking for well-managed small businesses in every
field. But not everyone wants to move to the United States.

"Eighty percent of the people I meet with are looking to invest, but they've
already bought a visa for Canada or Australia," Basel said. Those countries are
offering investor visas for $ 250,000 to $ 500,000.

The investors he meets require U.S. business owners to provide a detailed
business plan. They also expect to make money on their investment.

"Foreign investors say, 'Treat me better than I would be treated if I put the
money in the bank.' "?

Write to Jane Applegate at the Los Angeles Times, Times Mirror Square, Los
Angeles, Calif. 90053.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              76 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 7, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Haitian Refugees With HIV Remain in Limbo as Asylum Claims Stall

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 976 words


One in 10 of the HIV-positive Haitian refugees being held at the U.S. Naval Base
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, has developed actual or possible AIDS symptoms as the
months-long legal battle over their asylum claims drags on.

The 233 Haitians with the virus that causes AIDS, along with 59 of their
relatives, are the only refugees remaining at the base, immigration officials
said. Although the U.S. Public Health Service does not support quarantines for
people with AIDS, Camp Bulkeley has become "a kind of quarantine" for other
reasons, said health service spokesman Bill Grigg. "Basically because nobody
knows exactly what to do with them," he said.

Although their numbers are small -- roughly 36,000 Haitians have been
intercepted at sea by the U.S. Coast Guard since a military coup thrust Haiti
into violent turmoil last fall -- the plight of these HIV-positive Haitians
involves clashing provisions of U.S. immigration law and has raised fear among
public health officials.

A federal Centers for Disease Control researcher warned in March that Camp
Bulkeley, where HIV positive Haitians then were being segregated from the rest
of the refugees, could possibly represent an "indefensible" health situation for
the United States. Since then, conditions at the camp have improved, health
officials say, adding that none of the Haitians there has died.

All of the Haitians at the camp were given approval to enter the United States
based on an initial screening that found their claims for asylum to be
plausible, said Duke Austin, an Immigration and Naturalization Services
spokesman. Subsequent medical tests revealed them to be HIV positive, and 23
have since developed symptoms of AIDS. Having the virus is among the medical
conditions for which immigrants may be legally excluded.

The Haitians are caught in a legal limbo. District and appellate courts have
agreed with immigrant rights attorneys that the Haitians have a right to legal
representation. But the government has argued that the tentative approval
granted for the Haitians to enter the United States did not confer on them such
constitutional protections.

The government has until late October to appeal the case to the Supreme Court.
The government could ask the high court to decide the issue at the same time
that justices consider arguments on why the United States should be allowed to
interdict Haitians at sea and repatriate them without making a determination
about their asylum claims.

With the legal issues still unresolved, immigration processing of the
HIV-positive Haitians at Camp Bulkeley has ground to a halt, and attorneys are
barred from the camp.

Michael Ratner, a Center for Constitutional Rights attorney who is representing
the Haitians, characterized the government's response to the court order this
way: "The government's said, 'Okay, you guys. If we need to process these guys
with an attorney, we're just not gonna process them. We'll leave them on
Guantanamo.' "

As Haitians flooded into Guantanamo after being picked up at sea by the U.S.
Coast Guard since last fall, public health officials expressed concerns about
the conditions under which the refugees were being held, particularly those
found to have HIV. Initially the Haitians were housed in crowded tents, and
sanitation facilities were poor.

James O. Mason, head of the U.S. Public Health Service, wrote to INS
Commissioner Gene McNary March 25 to "strongly recommend" several steps to
strengthen the health care provisions at the camp. Among the recommendations
were day-to-day surveillance of the Haitians' health status, especially for
tuberculosis, which is highly infectious; prompt, 24-hour-a-day care for "all
acutely ill migrants"; continued AIDS counseling and education; and the
distribution of condoms.

Grigg said health service officials have been satisfied with the response to
their concerns. One public health official said the Haitians at Guantanamo are
receiving better care at Bulkeley than they would get at health clinics in the
United States, and far better than in their homeland.

The Haitians are being cared for by 27 defense department medical personnel at
an 11-bed Navy hospital, Grigg said. They are receiving medication to prevent
tuberculosis and other infections, as well as AIDS-fighting medications such as
AZT, according to Grigg.

Earlier this summer, as the season of heavy rain and hurricanes approached, the
Haitians were moved out of tents and into newly erected wooden buildings,
according to Lt. Cmdr Gordon Hume, a spokesman for the Navy's Atlantic Fleet,
which is part of the military task force responsible for the camp. Hume said
more shower stalls and wash basins had been installed to improve the santitation
facilities at the camp.

Judy Rabinovitz, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union, which also
is involved in the Haitians' litigation, said she is concerned that the
government's immigration policies and the conditions under which they are being
held at the camp have put the Haitians at unnecessary risk.

"It's just completely outrageous," Rabinovitz said. "There's no reason for the
United States to be keeping those people there. There can be no pretense that
this can be to the public health benefit of the United States to keep [233]
people outside."

Although the Haitians are medically excludable, Austin said the government's
first standard in determining their fate is whether the immigrants would face
political persecution if they were returned home.

That doesn't mean, however, "that the only response to that is to bring them to
the United States," Austin added.

Asked if that meant the Haitians would be sent to some third country or continue
to be held at Guantanamo, Austin said, "The administration has never made any
public statements as to what the disposition of these people will be."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              77 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 4, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

How Immigration Affects Joblessness

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C6; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 339 words


In the Sept. 21 editorial "The Jobs Dilemma," The Post points out the obvious:
that when people enter the labor market faster than the economy creates jobs,
unemployment rises. The Post also correctly points to the lingering recession
and defense cutbacks as two of the prime causes for the sluggish job market.

But the editorial omitted one very important factor: immigration. At the start
of the recession, Congress passed, and the president signed, a bill that raised
legal immigration quotas by 40 percent to 700,000 annually. Add to this
refugees, political asylum seekers and illegal aliens, and you have a lot of new
workers in a stagnant market.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service's own data, that agency
issued 569,104 work authorizations in 1991 to new immigrants and temporary
residents who are permitted by statute to work in the United States. It also
issued 533,949 discretionary work authorizations to aliens without statutory
permission to work here. In 1992, the INS is projected to issue more than 1.3
million work authorizations to immigrants. Of these about 715,000, or 55
percent, will be discretionary.

The Labor Department projects that the U.S. economy will create about 530,000
new jobs this year. That is nearly 200,000 fewer than the number of
discretionary work authorization that will be issued by INS this year. It is a
full 800,000 fewer than the total number of work authorizations that will be
issues to all immigrants and temporary residents in 1992.

While The Post frets about ways to create jobs without causing long-term harm to
the economy, it ignores the other half of the equation -- reducing the number of
job seekers. Even in a healthy economy we cannot create jobs fast enough to keep
up with the natural increase in our labor supply and issue 1.3 million work
authorizations to immigrants every year. The first rule in dealing with a
dilemma is to quit making things worse.

DAN STEIN Executive Director Federation for American Immigration Reform
Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              78 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 22, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

For the Record

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A30

LENGTH: 245 words


From an article by Suneel Ratan in the Oct. 7 issue of Fortune magazine:

It's time for an addition to the welcome that the Statue of Liberty extends to
the world's tired, poor and huddled masses. The United States will now proffer a
hand to foreign millionaires.

Taking a cue from Canada and Australia, the U.S. immigration department will
allot 10,000 visas a year to immigrants and their families who bring in no less
than $ 1 million and create at least 10 jobs. A minimum of 3,000 of the newly
arriving families must put their money in depressed areas, defined as places
where unemployment is 50 percent higher than the national average. Paul Schmidt,
an immigration attorney in Washington, says the program could bring in $ 4
billion. The money must come from abroad and be legally earned.

Hong Kong, Taiwan and the Middle East are expected to provide most of these new
immigrants, because they have incentives to leave their homelands.

John Trasvina, an aide to Sen. Paul Simon (D-Ill.) who helped push the program
through Congress last year, expects them to head mostly for California, Hawaii
or New York, where many already have relatives.

Consultant Paul Donnelly, who has set up a Washington firm to handle investor
visas, says state and local officials would be smart to package incentives such
as job training to lure investors. Says he: "It's potentially the biggest
job-creation program in the country, and it won't cost taxpayers a dime."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: Yesterday's For the Record came not from the October 1992 Fortune
magazine, as stated, but from the October 1991 issue.

TYPE: TRANSCRIPT

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              79 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 24, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

William R. Robie Dies at 48;
Immigration Judge, Bar Leader

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B4; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 279 words


William R. Robie, 48, the chief immigration judge in the Executive Office for
Immigration Review in the Justice Department, died Oct. 18 at his home in
Alexandria. He had AIDS.

Mr. Robie was a past president of both the Federal Bar Association and the JAG
Association, an organization of persons who have served in the Judge Advocate
General's Corps in the Army.

A native of Baltimore, Mr. Robie was reared in Wheaton and Pittsburgh. He
graduated from Northwestern University, from which he also received a law
degree. From 1970 to 1974, he served in the Army in the JAG Corps.

When he left the service, he settled in the Washington area. He worked for the
Legal Education Institute in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare and
then for the Civil Service Commission.

In 1978, Mr. Robie joined the Justice Department, where he became director of
the office of attorney personnel management. In 1983, he was assigned to the
executive office of immigration review, which hears appeals from rulings by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

For several years, Mr. Robie also taught legal research in the paralegal program
at the University of Maryland.

He was a member of the Administrative Conference of the United States and the
American Bar Association, and he was president of the Shuter's Hill Owners
Association, a civic organization in Alexandria. He also was a past
international president of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity.

Survivors include his companion, James J. Torretti of Alexandria; his parents,
Fred S. and Mary Louise Robie of Stone Harbor, N.J.; a sister, Nancy Bunt of
Pittsburgh; and a brother, F. Kent Robie of Rio Grande, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OBITUARY

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              80 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 9, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Visa Loophole Seen Costing U.S. Workers Computer Jobs

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1095 words


A loophole in U.S. immigration laws is allowing thousands of foreign computer
programmers and analysts to enter the United States each year on temporary
business visas, enabling them to take jobs from American workers, according to
industry and government officials.

"We are being crushed by this," said James Schneider, a spokesman for the
National Association of Computer Consultant Businesses (NACCB), a trade group
representing 130 companies and about 10,000 workers. "This practice can't
validly occur, and yet no one can figure out why it is still going on."

The problem, according to State Department and immigration officials, is that a
longstanding practice aimed at easing bureaucratic obstacles for short business
trips is being abused by foreign companies -- often called "job shops" -- to
bring technicians into this country. And the situation is not limited to the
computer industry, officials said.

"The computer industry is an issue," one State Department official said, "but
don't forget that's one piece of the action and not the totality of the problem.
They [the NACCB] think that is the only problem. Industry in general, anyone who
buys heavy or high-tech equipment," is affected.

"We have to do something with it," said one Immigration and Naturalization
Service official. "We don't know what exactly to do."

The problem is most pronounced in computers. This is how it works, according to
NACCB officials:

Typically, the foreign companies bid to provide computer services for U.S.
firms, and bring in workers under the business visas or use workers they have
already brought in under those visas. The visas are granted for short periods,
usually up to six months, but may be extended once the worker arrives.

The foreign companies, which may be affiliated with U.S. firms, pay only living
expenses here -- generally about $ 1,500 a month, said Schneider, who has a San
Francisco computer consulting firm. Salaries -- often amounting to less than $ 2
an hour for Asians -- are paid in the workers' home countries.

The foreign companies are able to avoid paying any benefits, overtime or minimum
wage and typically do not pay U.S. taxes, according to the NACCB.

The salary differential easily allows foreign recruiters to underbid American
businesses, said William Campbell, who also runs a San Francisco consulting
firm.

"They make more profit than us even underbidding by 50 percent," he said. Many
of the programming jobs are billed at about $ 30 an hour, whereas the normal
rate for U.S. companies for similar work can exceed $ 50 an hour.

The NACCB has been lobbying the State Department and the INS, insisting the
practice is illegal. The visas are intended for business people coming here to
negotiate contracts or to attend conferences, the trade group argues, or perhaps
for highly specialized workers entering the country briefly to install special
equipment -- not for general computer work.

The State Department and INS agree that these computer consultants should be
required to obtain another visa -- for professional workers -- which is harder
to get and is limited to 65,000 a year under the 1990 immigration law.

The department, in the interests of speeding travel and trade, permits such
professionals to come in under the much broader business visa, which is issued
to nearly 3.5 million people a year. Officials say the department would have to
go through formal rulemaking procedures to undo the practice.

Creating "job shops" for foreign professionals "is not what we wanted to
create," said one State Department official, who said both the INS and the
department "want to accommodate" the NACCB's concerns and have been working on
new rules for several months.

But it will be difficult to draw a line between working and "doing business,"
INS and department officials cautioned.

"We've been wrestling with this for 40 years," said another State Department
official. Part of the problem, he said, is that "you need a set of rules that
will stand judicial scrutiny and harmonize the interests of all parties in all
industries, and that is not an easy thing to do."

Fred M. Shulman, who owns a large computer services company in Rockville, said
he has lost "millions of dollars in business" to foreign competitors in the last
few years because of the visa loophole.

"We have a hard time competing with them," he said, "because their workers are
paid a fraction of what they would be paid for an equivalent job in this
country."

Shulman said he is regularly solicited by representatives of foreign companies
to bid jointly on contracts.

"They can supply large numbers of people," Shulman said. "My answer is I have to
make them my employees," he said, but that is not accepted by the foreign
companies.

The loophole not only hurts U.S. businesses and workers, NACCB representatives
argue, but also may harm the foreign workers temporarily brought over. Despite
their education and white-collar jobs, some of the workers are kept as virtual
peons in situations reminiscent of those of illegal alien farm workers.

Alex Dubenko, for example, is a Ukrainian computer analyst recruited by a Kiev
company to work in the United States. On arrival here last October he was met by
the company's local recruiter, a Belgian, who put Dubenko and several Russians
to work at firms in Maryland and Virginia.

Dubenko and three other men were lodged in a house near Manassas, driven to and
from work, and fed. Dubenko said he was paid $ 20 a week, which, after
conversion to rubles, he calculated as a proper wage for equivalent work in the
Soviet Union.

Unsure of his legal status, Dubenko worked seven days a week, often morning to
night. He was given a raise to $ 40 a week.

Finally, in frustration, he and one of the other men began calling local
companies last February to look for another job. Although neither had a valid
driver's license, they took the recruiter's car and found their way around the
Beltway, out Interstate 270 to Shulman's company in Rockville.

They applied for work, passed a test and were hired, according to Dubenko.

When the recruiter found out, Dubenko said, he ripped the telephone from the
wall, removed the battery from the car and said, "In two days you fly to
Russia."

Dubenko said he found an extension phone and called Shulman's company, which
sent someone to pick them up. Dubenko said he is now earning about $ 35,000 a
year, working under a proper visa.

"But there are still people living in the house in Manassas," he said, still
working for the foreign recruiter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              81 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 14, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

McCarran- Walter's Last Gasp

Nat Hentoff

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 800 words


In January 1987, agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
accompanied by members of the FBI, arrested eight Palestinian aliens and one
Kenyan woman in Los Angeles. Some of the arrests were at dawn, with guns drawn.
One of those taken into custody later that day, a student, was hauled away in
the middle of an exam. Another, Khader Hamide, who has been in the United States
since 1971, was due to get his citizenship papers the week he was arrested.

Shackled hand and foot, the "terrorists" -- as the INS called them -- were
charged with associating with an organization, the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine, which advocates the "doctrines of world communism."
Under the language of the McCarran-Walter Act, which was in effect at the time,
this kind of advocacy was reason for deportation proceedings. At first, the
prisoners were denied bail as risks to national security.

The FBI had conducted a lengthy investigation of these "terrorists." One FBI
agent had moved into an apartment next door to Khader Hamide and his wife, Julie
Mungai, to get the subversive goods on those two.

The result? In testimony before the Senate Committee on Intelligence in 1987,
FBI DirectorWilliam Webster said: "The individuals who were arrested in
California had not been found to have engaged themselves in terroristic
activities." They were arrested, Webster continued, "because they are alleged to
be members of a worldwide communist organization ... in this particular case, if
these individuals had been United States citizens, there would not have been a
basis for their arrest."

American citizens, the director of the FBI acknowledged, have the First
Amendment right to advocate ideas, even those propagated by the Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine. (The people arrested, it should be noted, had
denied membership in the PFLP.)

But there was "evidence" of their link to that organization, which has indeed
committed certain acts of terrorism. The defendants had in their possession not
guns but magazines, including the PFLP's Democratic Palestine. In the magazines
were articles calling for an independent Palestinian state. It is a PFLP view,
and it is also held by some Israelis as a way to keep Israel a Jewish state. The
defendants had distributed these magazines. The publications were legal and
could be found in the Library of Congress.

Eventually, the charges of being handmaidens of world communism were dropped
against most of the defendants, who then had to deal only with technicalities
concerning their visas. But the remaining two -- Khader Hamide and Michel
Shehadeh -- were still on the INS's priority list for deportation.

Meanwhile, in 1990, Congress, at the instigation of Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan
(D-N.Y.), amended the immigration laws, removing the provisions of the
McCarran-Walter Act that forbade immigrants from advocating world communism or
other such pernicious political doctrines. They too were to have free speech
rights here. Under the new statute, deportation can take place if it is shown
that immigrants are "engaging in terrorist activity." Not engaging in spreading
ideas, but actually involved in terrorism.

The Justice Department -- the ultimate prosecutor in this case -- has not
allowed the new law to lessen its determination to prove that these two
defendants are "terrorists." In making a case that they have "engaged in
terrorist activity," the Justice Department is interpreting the new law so
broadly as to remake it.

Now underway before Immigration Judge Bruce Einhorn in Los Angeles, this will
probably be -- as the defendants' co-counsel David Cole notes -- "the last
McCarthy-era deportation trial solely for advocacy of ideas." Even though the
charges are supposedly based on alleged actual terrorism, Hamide and Shehadeh
are on trial for what they think.

The Justice Department has declared that it can deport Hamide and Shehadeh
solely for "providing material support to a terrorist organization, without
more." That is, without any more "proof" of their "engaging in terroristic
activity."

This interpretation of aiding terrorism can, says David Cole, "make deportable
any supporter of any group that has committed one or more violent acts, even if
the support is directed only to the group's lawful humanitarian activities. ...
The INS could deport any immigrant who donated money for medical supplies to the
Kurdish rebels in Iraq, raised money for Nelson Mandela's speaking tour last
summer, or responded to Oliver North's pleas to raise money for the contras."

Attorney General William Barr can still -- before he leaves his beleaguered post
-- bring a spirit of justice to his department by dropping the charges in this
case and finally interring the ghost of the McCarran-Walter Act.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              82 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 14, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Somali Wins Stay of Deportation

Paul W. Valentine

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D6; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 263 words


An imprisoned 24-year-old Somali scheduled for deportation to his distressed
country this month has won a stay while attorneys appeal his political asylum
case to the U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals.

Jama Farah Mahamed, currently being held by immigration authorities in the
Wicomico County Detention Center on Maryland's Eastern Shore, fled to the United
States via Kenya and Sweden in October 1991, saying that he was targeted by
rebel militia because he was a member of the same clan as ousted Somali
president Mohamed Siad Barre. He said his father was slain by gunmen of rebel
warlords and he had a "well-founded fear of persecution" if he returned.

U.S. District Judge Benson Everett Legg in Baltimore rejected his plea, saying
that "every clan and social group" in Somalia was the "object of murderous
intentions" and that Mahamed failed to show he was singled out, the basis on
which asylum can be granted.

The judge has now stayed the deportation pending Mahamed's appeal.

Even with the possibility of stabilization in Somalia with U.S. troops now
pouring into the country to secure relief services, airports and other major
facilities, Mahamed faces an uncertain future if he is returned, said his
attorney, Michele Pistone.

"The law looks at his persecution at the time of flight," she said, although the
Court of Appeals could send the case back to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service with orders to review it in light of subsequent political changes in
Somalia.

Pistone said it likely will be several months before the appeals court rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              83 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 22, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

An 'Invitation to Rat' on INS Workers

Al Kamen, Thomas W. Lippman, Dan Balz

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 831 words


Clinton transition people are putting out the word that they would like a list
of which Immigration and Naturalization Service officials have been particularly
naughty or nice in the last 12 years.

A memo prepared by "unofficial adviser" Robert Rubin, a San Francisco
immigration lawyer who has litigated frequently against the INS, minces no
words, lest anyone be confused:

"We are . . . interested in hearing about local INS officials whose
decision-making has been consistently beyond the bounds of the exercise of
reasonable discretion," Rubin said in the memo.

The Dec. 8 memo, written on transition team letterhead, was addressed to "All
Interested Parties" in the voluntary agency and legal communities, but copies
soon circulated within the INS, where one official called it "an invitation to
rat on your colleagues."

Rubin, who is helping transition team leader Linda Yanez, who heads Harvard Law
School's immigration clinic, said he was "compiling information and conducting
research for her transition report."

"I would appreciate if you would provide me with any information regarding
particular INS personnel, including District Directors and District Counsel,
whose conduct should be brought to the attention of a new INS Commissioner," he
wrote.

"Please fax me any information that you have on this issue. The source of any
information provided will be kept confidential. We are under serious time
constraints," Rubin said, "so I would greatly appreciate if you would respond
immediately."

Transition officials say this is not the first time that a transition has wanted
to know who the rotten apples were in the outgoing administration, although they
conceded that past teams were not known to advertise quite this boldly. One
official also noted that the team is looking for people who have been doing a
good job.

One source said it has received about 60 names so far, but that number includes
both those praised and those criticized.

Key Issues for O'Leary's Top Aide

Sources say the Clinton transition team recognizes that its energy
secretary-designate, Hazel R. O'Leary, has no experience dealing with the
department's biggest operation and it's most painful headache -- the nation's
nuclear weapons complex. The network of bomb factories is in disarray from coast
to coast and it is expected it will cost tens of billions to clean up
environmental and safety problems.

The team is searching for an undersecretary who has Washington experience and is
familiar with those issues. That has led it to outgoing Rep. Howard Wolpe
(D-Mich.), former chairman of the House Committee on Science, Space and
Technology's investigation subcommittee.

Wolpe, however, may not be available. He's looking at the governor's race in
1994.

Via Fax, Some Suggestions for Riley

President-elect Clinton had hardly begun announcing his selection of former
South Carolina governor Richard Riley as secretary of education when the fax
machines started whirring with suggestions for Riley's top deputy.

The National Association of State Boards of Education, the Council of the Great
City Schools and the National Parent Teachers Association immediately sent Riley
a letter congratulating him, but voicing concern about pending appointments,
"especially the position of deputy secretary.

"The next generation of students in the public schools will be children of
color," the groups said, suggesting that Riley appoint one of a number of
"distinguished men and women of color" for the job. Those suggested include
former D.C. schools head Floretta Dukes McKenzie, New York City chancellor
Joseph Fernandez, Philadelphia schools superintendent Constance Clayton and two
deputy state superintendents, Al Ramirez of Illinois and Jay Cummings of Texas.

As the faxes began, the rumor mill revved into high gear with names of possible
replacements for Riley as head of the all-important transition personnel
operation. Top picks include Harold Ickes, who ran the Democratic convention,
Eli Segal, campaign chief of staff who lost in the bidding for White House chief
of staff to Thomas F. "Mack" McClarty, and campaign chairman Mickey Kantor, who
also is talked about as a possible U.S. trade representative.

The Long, Long Trek to Little Rock

Little Rock, Ark., is not the easiest place in the world to get to, and the trip
from New Delhi must have taken U.S. Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering quite a
while. Pickering, a career Foreign Service official, was there for a meeting
with Clinton Saturday night, dinner with Warren M. Christopher and Riley Sunday
night and then apparently headed back to India. Pickering, former ambassador to
the United Nations, Israel, Jordan and El Salvador, has been mentioned as a
possible deputy secretary of state under Christopher.

On the other hand, there is an opening at the CIA. And former Pentagon official
R. James Woolsey, who has been mentioned as a possibility for that job, was in
Little Rock yesterday . . . .


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FLORETTA MCKENZIE.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              84 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 25, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Deported Teenagers Can Return to Nebraska

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 150 words

DATELINE: OMAHA


Two teenagers who had been pulled out of high school and deported to Mexico will
be allowed to return to their families here while they seek legal immigrant
status, the governor and a congressman said yesterday.

The Justice Department overruled the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
will allow the youths, Ambrosio Lopez, 17, and Augustin Antunez, 16, to return
to Omaha, Rep. Peter Hoagland (D-Neb.) said. They had been arrested at Omaha
South High School on Nov. 6.

Antunez's brother, 21-year-old Francisco, was deported at the same time from his
job in a restaurant. He also will be allowed home, said Nebraska Gov. Ben Nelson
(D), who with Hoagland had championed the families' cause.

The teens and the older brother were in the United States illegally, but their
parents live in Omaha legally. Both families had been trying to obtain legal
citizenship for their children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              85 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 9, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Criticized for Not Acting to Stem Smuggling of Asians by Gangs

John Pomfret, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 1641 words


An estimated 100,000 Asians are illegally entering the United States each year,
enriching Asian gangs that smuggle in the human cargo and prompting complaints
among law enforcement officials that the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service is not doing enough to combat the flow.

The officials say Asian gangs are taking in as much as $ 3 billion annually by
sneaking mainland Chinese, Taiwanese and ethnic Chinese from Vietnam into the
country. The money is financing the rise of Asian criminal syndicates here and
abroad.

High-ranking INS field agents have complained that the service's headquarters
is, for various reasons, thwarting investigations of immigrant smuggling rings
and even backing legislation that would have the effect of facilitating the
crime.

Official estimates say the gangs -- which are linked to Hong Kong criminal
organizations, called Triads -- bring 100,000 Asians, mostly mainland Chinese,
to the United States each year and charge each immigrant $ 30,000. Because the
immigrants cannot afford the fees, their relatives or prospective employers pay.
The immigrants then wind up working as indentured servants in Asian communities,
laboring in sweatshops or restaurants to pay off the debts.

An undetermined number join the gangs after they arrive and commit crimes to pay
their passage. Some become prostitutes, like the Taiwanese women smuggled into
the United States in the 1980s by one ring that established a seven-city
call-girl service before its leaders were jailed in 1988.

Immigrants who cannot repay the money are sometimes tortured and even killed,
police officials say. On Jan. 8, in New York City's Chinatown, gunmen with
automatic weapons shot and killed two Chinese illegal immigrants. Three months
earlier, another gunman in Chinatown pumped 13 bullets into the chest of a
Chinese man, also in this country illegally. Failure to repay the money advanced
for their fares is a motive in the slayings, said New York City Police Det. Sgt.
Joseph Ayres, of Chinatown's 5th Precinct.

In a confidential memorandum late last year, Jim Hayes, assistant district
director of the INS's anti-smuggling operation in Los Angeles, wrote: "While we
have repeatedly proposed innovative local actions to attack this problem, we
have been thwarted by Headquarters Investigations' lack of a clear vision on how
to confront this dilemma."

The memo said the U.S. Attorney's Organized Crime Strike Force in Los Angeles
had recently stopped prosecuting smuggling of Asians because the INS had failed
to provide agents with sufficient resources to bring good cases against the
criminals.

In a subsequent letter to INS headquarters, the U.S. attorney for California's
central district, Terree A. Bowers, said she dropped the cases "in the face of a
policy which operates to defeat the overall objective of these prosecutions,
i.e., the destruction of the smuggling organizations and the prosecution of
their leadership."

Hayes's document criticized headquarters for failing to furnish agents with
intelligence about smuggling rings. "Headquarters Investigations' position seems
to be one where they prefer to retain all the information for themselves rather
than disperse it to the field where it can best be put to use."

He recommended that "the issue of Chinese alien smuggling be raised to the level
of national security due to its connections with organized crime and narcotics
trafficking."

The INS assistant commissioner for investigations, John F. Shaw, said in an
interview the main reasons the agency has not done enough about the smuggling of
Asians are that Congress has not given the agency enough money to fight the
problem and a reorganization of the INS's investigations division, supposed to
be finished by January 1992, has yet to be completed.

"We're not giving coherent, well-planned direction to the field," he said. "We
recognize the frustration in the field but they seem to think we're sitting on
pots of money here."

The department's anti-smuggling branch, for example, which bears the brunt of
the Asian cases, has been without a chief for the past 18 months because of
shortfalls in the agency's budget, he said.

Field agents contend, however, that incompetence and the unwillingness of the
U.S. government to deport illegal Chinese immigrants because of concerns about
human rights were more important factors than funding.

While the number of illegal Asian immigrants pales in comparison to the
estimated 1.5 million Mexicans who sneak into the United States each year,
agents said the recent Chinatown violence and the connection of the smuggling of
Asians to organized crime demand that the service take the matter seriously. The
latest twist in the racket -- smuggling by boat -- was also cause for alarm,
they said.

Since August 1991, INS agents have intercepted 10 rickety fishing trawlers
packed with mainland Chinese off Hawaii and both the east and west coasts of the
U.S. mainland, and estimate that dozens more have made the trip undetected.
Chinese smuggling by boat "has now evolved into a continuing activity which
shows no sign of subsiding," Hayes's memo said.

Coast Guard officials said yesterday they had thwarted one of the largest
smuggling attempts in recent years in the Pacific with the seizure last week of
the 341-foot East Wood. The Panamanian-registered merchant ship was apparently
headed for Hawaii from Hong Kong with 400 to 500 Chinese nationals in the cargo
hold, they said. Petty Officer Cameron Hardy said that the ship was seized after
a group of 40 people armed with knives and machetes took charge of the vessel on
Dec. 29.

In interviews, four high-ranking agents in four separate INS offices made the
following criticisms of the INS's headquarters operations:


Headquarters has rejected three proposals from the field to conduct a
coordinated investigation of Asian smuggling rings. The agents say the probes
would have focused on ringleaders, notably Paul Wong, alias Fuchou Paul, who is
wanted for murder and extortion by the FBI and suspected of ordering at least
one of the recent slayings in New York. In the highest-level U.S. law
enforcement contact with China ever, Jim Moody, chief of the Organized Crime and
Drug section of the FBI, went to China in October to ask, among other things,
for help in capturing Wong. Moody said Wong is hiding in China.


One of the investigations stopped by headquarters was a 1989 probe of two
alleged immigrant smugglers -- William Chan, a convicted heroin trafficker also
known as "The Old Fox," and a man called Kenny Li. Chan, who spent three years
in federal prison on a 1979 drug conviction, was working with Li in Hong Kong,
smuggling Chinese to the United States via Latin American countries, according
to INS agents. The investigation was shut down without explanation by INS
headquarters after INS agents posing as immigrant smugglers met with Li. In
September, federal agents finally caught up with Li, arresting him in Bangkok on
an 11-count federal complaint of alien and heroin smuggling. Li bribed his way
out of jail in Bangkok and remains a fugitive.

Shaw, in response, said the INS was not "Miami Vice going abroad. We have to be
sensitive to diplomacy."


Perhaps the most controversial of the agents' complaints concerns their call for
a revision of former president George Bush's Executive Order 12711 to allow the
deportation of Chinese criminals or illegal immigrants. Designed to protect
Chinese fleeing the 1989 crackdown on the pro-democracy movement in Beijing, the
order has basically stopped the INS from sending anyone back to China even if he
or she has no claim to political asylum, is a convicted criminal or known gang
member. More than 90 percent of the immigrants who arrived on the 10 boats, for
example, have been released from detention centers and are presumably living in
Chinese communities in the United States.


Agents contend that the INS is also backing legislation that would have the
effect of making it easier to smuggle Chinese into this country. On Dec. 23, the
service submitted a proposal to the Justice Department to enact the aspect of
Bush's order that allows Chinese men and women to stay in the United States by
saying they fear forced abortions or sterilizations under China's one-child
population control policies. Agents said the proposal, pushed by the INS general
counsel, reflected the Bush administration's interest in fighting abortion
worldwide.

However, the proposed legislation, like Bush's executive order, is so broad that
it is open to abuse, agents said. In early September, a boatload of Chinese
arrived off the shores of Morehead City, N.C. All of the passengers, mostly men
and mostly farmers from southern Fujian province, have since applied for
political asylum, some under the one-child category, said INS special agent
Jeannette Chu.

"The people who are going to benefit from this will be young Chinese men,
possibly with gang links, not pregnant women worried about their babies," she
said. "The U.S. just won't send them back and the gangs know this."

A Senate subcommittee report issued in December also took issue with the INS's
handling of Asian smuggling.

"No sustained or coordinated effort has yet been undertaken by INS to enforce
current immigration laws against Asian organized-crime leaders. This must
change," said the report prepared by the Senate Governmental Affairs
investigations subcommittee.

Shaw said the service would soon complete a plan to thwart immigrant smuggling.
One of his ideas is to create a task force to respond to boat landings.

Field agents, however, said that was not a solution because it would still allow
the illegal immigrants into the United States without fear of deportation and
leave the ringleaders, generally based in Hong Kong, unscathed.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              86 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 7, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Human Cargo Is Hugely Profitable To New York's Chinese Underworld;
Authorities Report a Surge in Smuggling of Immigrants by Boat

Malcolm Gladwell, Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 1588 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, June 6


This morning, in the frigid waters off Rockaway Beach, more than 200 Chinese
illegal immigrants jumped for freedom off the side of a grounded freighter.

A week and a half ago, across the Hudson River in Jersey City, 57 Chinese were
found locked inside an auto body shop, held captive until they came up with tens
of thousands of dollars in cash to win their release from those who smuggled
them into the United States.

In these two separate incidents, authorities here have stumbled onto one of the
lucrative operations of the emergent New York Chinese underworld -- smuggling
young men and women in by the boatload from China for $ 25,000 to $ 30,000 a
head. The practice has been going on quietly in the New York area since the late
1980s.

But in recent months, police and immigration officials said, it has exploded:
The smugglers have switched from bringing their human contraband in by the
handful on planes to by the hundreds on boats, and the number of separate
smuggling operations based in Manhattan's Chinatown has mushroomed. A number of
Chinese, many of whom want to make their way to New York, have been smuggled in
by boat on the West Coast as well, including nearly 200 left by a freighter at
the foot of San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge last month.

Police said that the freighter that ran aground off the borough of Queens today
was one of what may be dozens of vessels that have clandestinely brought young
immigrants -- almost all from the Chinese province of Fujian -- into the United
States over the last few months. One expert estimates that the total of illegal
aliens pouring into Manhattan's Chinatown -- and in fast-growing Fujian
communities in Brooklyn and Queens -- is now between 2,500 and 3,000 a month.
That makes for a criminal operation worth hundreds of millions of dollars
annually to local underworld entrepreneurs.

With the surge in immigration has come violence. Late last month in Teaneck,
N.J., in what police suspect was a turf battle between rival Chinese smuggling
gangs, a shootout in a quiet surburban neighborhood left four dead. New York
police say that since November they have investigated 12 cases in which recent
Chinese immigrants were kidnapped and in some cases brutally beaten because they
were unable to pay off their smuggling fee. This morning, in the Far Rockaway
surf, came the most recent tragedy: seven dead, possibly more, swimming to reach
shore.

"The Fujian Chinese population of Chinatown is exploding and 90 percent of the
new people are illegal," said Luke Rettler, a prosecutor who heads the Asian
Gang Unit of the Manhattan district attorney's office. "It is an unbelievably
lucrative thing for the gangs to be involved with. It's so big now that they are
bringing them in by the shipload."

All told today -- including more than 100 who did not jump ship -- the
Immigration and Naturalization Service detained 328 Chinese from the grounded
freighter, the Golden Venture. So far this year, the INS has caught almost 2,000
Chinese illegally entering the United States. This, INS officals concede, is
only a fraction of those who have been successfully smuggled into the country
and a dramatic increase from last year. In 1991, only 20 Chinese were
intercepted at sea. And even those who have been caught have almost all been
released because of the INS's huge backlog in dealing with asylum cases.

"It takes years and years to determine their status, so generally they are
released on bond and given the right to work [in the United States] so they can
support themselves while they wait for a determination," said Duke Austin, a
spokesman for the INS in Washington. "They end up getting precisely what they
wanted in the first place."

But the head of New York's INS said the Chinese who jumped ship today would be
held in custody until their cases are resolved.

According to police and immigration experts, the smuggling of Chinese into New
York began in the mid-to-late 1980s and picked up substantially after the
Tiananmen Square massacre that ended massive pro-democracy protests in 1989.
Virtually all the immigrants then -- and to this day -- came from Fujian, a poor
and largely rural province in southeastern China. The 57 aliens found in Jersey
City were all Fujian, as were the majority of those aboard the Golden Venture.

According to U.S. immigration officials, the bulk of smuggling originates there
for a combinations of reasons. There is a large Fujian population already in New
York, and many are willing to pay for friends and relatives to be brought from
China. There is an aggressive and organized group of smugglers with extensive
contacts in the towns and villages they left behind in China, and a seemingly
unlimited pool of people are desperate to come to the land they call "Meiguo,"
the beautiful country.

"Eighty percent of the people in Fujian, if they had the means and the
opportunity, would come here," said Dan Stein, executive director of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a Washington-based lobby group.

From interviews with aliens who have been caught, police and immigration
officials said that typically people are brought to the United States if they
can find several thousand dollars while in China to serve as a down payment on
the cost of passage and can provide the smuggler with a reference in New York
who will be held responsible for the balance of the payment.

Over the years, police said, the smugglers have used dozens of different ways to
move their human cargo. In the beginning, they put their clients on regular
flights from China to New York, using forged passports to get them on board and
having them ask for political asylum once they arrived. Others flew them to
Central America on tourist visas and then smuggled them into the United States
-- either by boat or overland across the Mexican border. Some asked for asylum.
Others were smuggled in undetected.

The Golden Venture, which had an Indonesian crew, however, is part of the latest
trend in alien smuggling, which involves renting space on big cargo vessels. The
ships sail from China directly to U.S. shores -- bringing the Fujians either
across the Pacific Ocean to California, and then by plane or bus to Manhattan,
or straight to the New York coast in a voyage that can take months.

In a similar incident two weeks ago in San Francisco, a freighter dumped 240
illegal aliens from Fujian at the foot of the Golden Gate Bridge and then sailed
back toward international waters, although it was intercepted by Coast Guard
cutters. In recent months illegal Chinese immigrants traveling by boat have been
captured in San Diego, northern Mexico, Taiwan, Singapore and near the Marshall
Islands in the Pacific.

"The preferred method now is to sneak in under false pretenses, under cover of
night, and just unload these people," said Rettler. "They're trying to bypass
the whole INS system."

The use of freighters has also made smuggling much more lucrative. Using
commercial planes limited smuggling operations to a handful of people at a time,
and added the cost of falsifying passports. Smugglers have been putting 300 to
400 people on vessels like the Golden Venture, which represents gross revenue of
$ 9 million to $ 12 million per trip. That kind of money, police say, has
attracted the attention of all kinds of entrepreneurs over the past year, as
well as the interest of organized crime.

"At one time the smuggling was concentrated," said Joseph Pollini of the New
York City Police Department's major case squad. In fact, he said, until two
years ago there were only two main smuggling operations, run by sets of
brothers, with one partner in China and one in Manhattan. Gangs were involved
only peripherally -- to ensure through threats, violence and kidnapping that the
smugglers were paid.

Having realized the profitability of smuggling, gangs now are doing it
themselves.  It "is maybe a fifth of [a gang's] operation," Pollini said, but
the overall amount of alien smuggling is "growing fairly well in leaps and
bounds." There are now a dozen different smuggling networks bringing people to
the New York area. The money is so enticing, Pollini said, that gangs are
actually shifting resources from drug-running to alien-smuggling.

"One of the reasons more groups are getting involved is that compared to drugs,
the penalties are fairly small," Pollini said. "With drugs you can get life in
prison for one offense. But with smuggling, if a boat is stopped the captain
will get maybe 18 months to two years."

What worries law enforcement officials in New York is the escalation of violence
that has accompanied the rise in smuggling in the Chinese community and the
exploitation of many of those spirited in. Some people who are unable to pay off
their cost of passage, they said, are forced to join criminal gangs or, if they
are women, pushed into prostitution. The 57 Fujian men found two weeks ago
locked inside a small, poorly ventilated warehouse may have been performing
forced labor to pay off their fee, police said. Some had been held as long as
several weeks.

"You go into one of the Fujian apartments in Chinatown and there are 14 people
sleeping there in a room 20 feet by 10," said prosecutor Rettler. "They work in
shifts. They work 20 hours a day. They take one day off a month. Some get
involved in crime. Some are indentured servants . . . .

"I talk to these people and see the conditions they live in over here and I
can't imagine that it was any worse in China."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              87 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 8, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

Courts Log Tragic Seagoing Saga;
Golden Venture's Crew Charged as Human Cargo Heads to Detention

Malcolm Gladwell, Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 902 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, June 7


The saga of the Golden Venture, which ran aground off a Queens beach Sunday and
spilled its cargo of illegal immigrants into the sea, began in February just off
the coast of Bangkok, according to court documents released today.

There the Honduran-registered freighter, hired by smugglers with ties to New
York's Chinatown, lay at anchor while 90 young Chinese with dreams of coming to
America were ferried from shore by speedboat. The ship then sailed to Mombasa,
Kenya, and at the end of March boarded another 199 Chinese, some of whom had
been stranded in Africa for months after their smuggler's ship had broken down.

Over the next six weeks, the Golden Venture sailed around the tip of Africa and
across the Atlantic. But in the shallow waters off the coast of New York City, a
chain of events was beginning that would lead to tragedy.

Twice, smaller boats that were to come and unload the hundreds of immigrants,
crammed below decks, failed to arrive. Impatient, the crew mutinied. The ship's
Indonesian captain was physically restrained, and a Chinese immigrant working
his passage in the crew commandeered the Golden Venture and sailed it closer to
shore.

There, in the early morning, it struck a sandbar off Jacob Riis Park beach, and
hundreds of people jumped into the sea and attempted to swim the 200 yards to
shore. In the frigid surf, six died.

These and other details of the odyssey of the Golden Venture were revealed today
as federal prosecutors arraigned the ship's Indonesian captain and 11 crew
members in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn. They were charged with conspiracy to
transport aliens illegally into the United States.

The ship they left behind was towed to Military Ocean Terminal in Bayonne, N.J.,
and is a symbol of what officials here describe as a barbaric human trade.

"The first thing that greeted me was a pile of human feces," said Coast Guard
Petty Officer Chris O'Neill, who boarded the Golden Venture Sunday.

"Everywhere were articles of these people's lives," he said. "Slippers, purses,
money, a remote control from a VCR, sweaters, pants, anything, everything that
you could imagine . . . . The wood was saturated with human perspiration. It was
an overpowering aroma. The sanitation conditions were much to be desired. It was
clear that the living space was being used as a bathroom."

Immigration officials announced that they would take the unusual step of
detaining indefinitely the nearly 300 Chinese aboard the ship. They cited an
effort to deter the thriving criminal trade that has brought tens of thousands
of Chinese illegal immigrants into the United States in the last few years.

Rather than being allowed to work in the United States while their requests for
political asylum are being considered, as many previous Chinese immigrants have
been allowed to do, those aboard the Golden Venture are to be held for months,
perhaps years, authorities said, in Immigration and Naturalization Service
facilities nationwide while their cases are processed.

"The disposition of these people will clearly send a signal to others who want
to follow the same path to the United States," INS spokesman Duke Austin said in
Washington. "If we release them to work, we will have given them the very thing
they wanted, and we will have supported the criminal element at the bottom of
this activity."

The announcement drew immediate fire from refugee groups and immigration
advocates, who said many of the young men and women aboard the Golden Venture
are legitimate political refugees.

Under an executive order dating to the last days of the Reagan administration,
immigrants from China are allowed to cite that country's prohibition on a family
having more than one child as the basis for seeking political asylum. That
policy has resulted in many more Chinese immigrants being granted asylum than
those from other countries, officials said.

"The detention policy should not be used to mistreat genuine claimants in order
to deter others from seeking to come," said Arthur Helton, director of the
Refugee Project of the Lawyer's Committee for Human Rights. "That's arbitrary
detention that violates both international and constitutional law. It's
conceivable that they could be held for months and perhaps even years."

But immigration officals said they believed it necessary to make an example of
those taken from the freighter in order to combat a wave of illegal immigration
that they said has reached "epidemic" status.

The Golden Venture is the 24th ship carrying Chinese immigrants that has been
intercepted on its way to the United States in the last 14 months, authorities
said.

Almost 2,000 Chinese illegal immigrants have been captured by immigration
officials since the Jan. 1. These include 240 left by a freighter below San
Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge two weeks ago, 57 discovered locked in a Jersey
City warehouse a day later and more than two dozen seized today in front of a K
mart store in Laguna Beach, Calif., authorities said.

According to the INS, these cases represent only a fraction of incidents
involving an estimated tens of thousands of Chinese, almost all of whom are from
Fujian Province and have been brought into the United States over the last five
years and taken to New York's Chinatown.

Officials said smugglers who arrange the passage typically charge between $
25,000 and $ 30,000 for each immigrant.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HANDCUFFED TOGETHER, UNDOCUMENTED CHINESE ALIENS ARRIVE AT YORK,
PA., COUNTY JAIL ON THEIR SECOND DAY IN UNITED STATES. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              88 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 17, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

Migrant Ships Believed Going to Hawaii;
2 Other Vessels Land Hundreds of Chinese in Mexico for Deportation

William Claiborne, Tod Robberson, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1447 words


As a 100-day ordeal at sea neared an end in Mexico early this morning for
U.S.-bound Chinese migrants on two of three rusty ships, Coast Guard officials
reported that several other vessels believed to be carrying hundreds more
Chinese were steaming toward Hawaii after skirting the U.S. mainland.

The officials said they were attempting to determine under which flags the
vessels are operating, the number of ships and their destinations. But one
Washington official said there is a "high probability" that the ships are being
used to smuggle migrants from China as part of a growing crime syndicate
operation in the trafficking of human cargo to the United States.

Mexican officials late last night seized the Long Sen and the To Ching when they
entered Mexican waters and arrested the crews. The passengers were to be flown
immediately back to China.

Mexican authorities, anticipating the arrival of the three ships in Ensenada,
dispatched 150 police, helicopters, patrol boats and buses to ensure that the
Chinese migrants would not be able to escape before beginning their journey
home. Ensenada is located about 60 miles south of a U.S. border fence that is
jumped annually by tens of thousands of illegal Mexican immigrants.

But late yesterday a problem, described by a Mexican interior ministry spokesman
as political in nature, developed aboard the third ship, the Sing Li, and
authorities decided to leave it in international waters until the matter was
resolved.

The latest four ships pose a potentially more difficult dilemma for the Clinton
administration than the three expected to pull into port at Ensenada late
yesterday after a week of tense U.S.-Mexican negotiations. By heading toward the
isolated islands of Hawaii, the migrants would seem to preclude the option of
being handed off to another country.

If the ships manage to elude the Coast Guard in international waters and enter
U.S. territorial limits, the passengers could thwart a toughened U.S. campaign
to stem trafficking in illegal migrants. U.S. officials have sought to avoid
allowing undocumented aliens into American territory, where they can apply for
political asylum and remain through protracted legal proceedings.

Cmdr. Marc Wolfson, a Coast Guard spokesman here, estimated that if the ships
now in question continue on their present speed and course, they could enter
U.S. territorial waters off Hawaii today or Sunday.

Wolfson declined to discuss whether the vessels were part of a group of four
ships carrying an estimated 750 Chinese sighted off the Pacific coast of
northern Mexico on July 6, when the Coast Guard boarded and detained the other
three ships carrying Chinese migrants.

Mexico agreed on Wednesday to allow those three vessels to dock in Ensenada only
long enough for their passengers to be screened, driven to the city of Tijuana
and deported to China aboard chartered jets. Mexican authorities had said at
least four additional ships with Chinese passengers "disappeared" before U.S.
Coast Guard cutters could board them as well. Coast Guard officials said at the
time that despite aggressive aerial and surface surveillance, they had not
detected additional smuggling vessels.

When asked yesterday whether the Coast Guard would attempt to board the vessels
now reported to be steaming toward Hawaii, Wolfson declined to comment.

Coast Guard officials said an interagency group has set up an operational
headquarters in Honolulu to coordinate the tracking of the vessels. The group
includes officials of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the Coast Guard, the Justice Department and others.

Meanwhile, international human rights organizations pleaded with President
Clinton not to be complicit with what they said would be a violation of a 1951
U.N. convention on refugees if the boat migrants are forcibly returned to China.

Kenneth Roth, acting executive director of the New York-based Human Rights
Watch, said that while Mexico has not signed the convention on refoulement --
which bars the forced return of refugees to face persecution -- the United
States is a signatory and should hold Mexico responsible as a matter of
international custom.

Previous migrants who fled by boat and were returned to China have been stiffly
fined, and a few have been jailed.

In a letter to Clinton, Roth said "the U.S. government should not relinquish
custody of the migrants to Mexican authorities until assurances are obtained
that fair and considered screening will take place to exempt genuine refugees
from forcible repatriation."

Also, William Frelick, senior policy analyst for the U.S. Committee for
Refugees, said that if, after careful screening, undocumented migrants are found
not to be genuine refugees with "bona fide fears of persecution," they should be
returned. But, Frelick said, "fundamental rights of asylum seekers ought not to
be sacrificed by the U.S. government in the interest of expediency and its own
convenience."

Frelick said the federal government's use of the Mexican government to block
asylum seekers bound for the United States is not new. "This year, as in the two
previous years, the U.S. government is paying $ 350,000 for the deportation of
third-country nationals out of Mexico," he said, citing a Senate Appropriations
Committee report as his source.

Arthur Helton, director of the refugee project of the New York-based Lawyers'
Committee for Human Rights, said he had been informed by a senior government
official that only one-third of the Chinese migrants aboard the three ships
intercepted off Mexico had agreed to fill out biographical questionnaires
submitted by U.S. and United Nations officials.

The questionnaires were intended to elicit information that would be essential
in determining the refugee status of asylum seekers, he said. Among the
two-thirds who refused to fill out the forms, Helton said, are likely to be some
people who were fearful of disclosing information that they may think could be
used against them by Chinese authorities.

A Clinton administration official said 180 migrants had filled out the
questionnaires, and only one migrant in that group was determined by the INS to
be eligible for asylum status.

The seizure of two of the three smuggling ships appeared to end a tense
diplomatic standoff between Mexico and the United States over who should accept
responsibility for a growing Asian immigration problem along North American
shores. Mexico grudgingly agreed to take control of the ships despite assertions
by its senior officials that U.S. law has encouraged the migrant influx and that
Washington was attempting to foist its problems on Mexico.

Mexican officials described the Chinese in the current confrontation as
desperate after three months at sea aboard dilapidated ships in cramped quarters
with little food.

Each of the migrants reportedly agreed to pay thousands of dollars to an
international ring of smugglers that promised to get them into the United
States. The San Diego Union reported Thursday that a senior Mexican general had
struck a $ 750,000-per-month deal to provide military assistance to one ring of
Chinese migrant-smugglers. Boats carrying Chinese migrants allegedly would
off-load in northern Mexico, where military personnel would help the Chinese
sneak into the United States. The newspaper cited an unclassified U.S. INS
report as the source of its information and said it was corroborated by senior
immigration officials.

Jorge Medina, spokesman for the Mexican Interior Ministry, which oversees
immigration affairs, adamantly denied the report yesterday.

If confirmed, however, high-level Mexican participation in the Chinese smuggling
rings would mark an embarrassment for Mexico at a time when its senior officials
are insisting that the influx of Chinese migrants is strictly a U.S. problem and
that Mexico had never been their destination.

Despite the clear sense of urgency expressed by Mexican officials about the need
to quickly bring the Chinese migrants into port and give them medical attention,
a series of diplomatic logjams appeared to have delayed the operation over the
past two days.

U.S. Coast Guard cutters kept the ships in international waters Wednesday and
Thursday so State Department interviewers could hand out the questionnaires and
determine which of the migrants may qualify for political asylum.

A Mexican official said China also delayed the operation after insisting that
Chinese consular officials be permitted to board the ships and conduct their own
interviews to ensure that all aboard were Chinese.

Claiborne reported from Washington, Robberson from Ensenada.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MEXICAN AUTHORITIES MUSTER FORCE OF POLICE, BUSES AND
HELICOPTERS IN ENSENADA IN ADVANCE OF LANDING BY CHINESE MIGRANTS FROM THREE
SMUGGLING SHIPS. AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              89 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 2, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Chinese Smuggling Grows, Forcing U.S. Reassessment

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1330 words


Chinese smuggling organizations have vastly expanded their elaborate networks of
way stations around the world and are now capable of transporting tens of
thousands of people to the United States, according to a new intelligence
assessment that has caused U.S. officials to rethink their approach to illegal
immigration from China.

For more than a year, public attention and law enforcement efforts have focused
on shiploads of Chinese emigres arriving on U.S. shores. But officials say they
face a larger and more difficult challenge from the rapid growth of overseas
smuggling networks that transport their human cargo by many different means and
directions.

Such networks have existed for several years, yet according to the assessment
more people are using them than ever before and the routes are more complex.
Moreover, several developments have made this trade more difficult to combat.

The most important and most troubling aspect of the new assessment, senior
officials said, is the finding that thousands of people already have left China
en route to the United States and are being held by smugglers in a variety of
locations while transportation and false documents are arranged for them.

"Over the last six months, we have become aware of a huge human warehousing
operation that holds tens of thousands of aliens at various points along the
pipeline, often for months at a time," a senior foreign policy official said.

The relaxation of border and immigration controls in Eastern Europe and the
former Soviet Union has produced a proliferation of new routes, with Moscow
recently emerging as a major hub for Chinese smuggling operations, a senior
official said.

An estimated 60,000 Chinese immigrants live illegally in Moscow, according to a
still-classified report summarizing the recent intelligence findings. "Many are
believed to be in Moscow awaiting onward travel to the U.S.," the report states.

Russian organized-crime groups have formed a formidable alliance with the
Chinese gangs known as "snakeheads" in the lucrative human trade, the report
said.

Travel along these smuggling networks typically involves a circuitous trip with
several stops along the way, and for some the trip from Fujian Province, the
principal departure point, to New York, the major destination, can take two
years or more, U.S. officials said.

"One documented air route used by alien smugglers originated in Bangkok, went to
New Delhi or Karachi, on to Nairobi or Johannesburg, and then to Buenos Aires or
Rio de Janeiro. It then went onward to Madrid, Barcelona, and London and finally
terminated in New York City," the intelligence report noted.

Most of the smugglers' clients leave China legally, a senior Clinton
administration official said. They readily acquire passports and often have
legitimate visas for their first stop outside China, before starting their
illegal voyage to the United States.

Two U.S. delegations have gone to China in the past six months to press for
cooperation in fighting the ship traffic, but U.S. officials said it is much
harder to ask for help restraining emigres who leave China legally but arrive
here as unlawful immigrants.

"As a practical matter it is easier to patrol a coastline looking for freighters
loaded with people than to screen airline or rail traffic for people who
obtained visas with questionable documents," an official said.

But there is a diplomatic problem as well. The United States has pressed China
to loosen travel controls as a matter of longstanding human rights policy.
Progress in this area was cited by President Clinton last Thursday when he
announced his decision to renew China's most favored nation (MFN) trade status.

In making the new assessment known, officials of several agencies emphasized
their hope that it would provide added justification for a package of
anti-smuggling measures that were proposed by Clinton last summer but have not
been enacted. The assessment also will be used to seek greater cooperation from
several countries around the world in combating immigrant smuggling.

The government has no ready estimates of the amount of smuggling traffic, but
officials see clear signs that the numbers are rising. They note that more than
14,300 Chinese nationals applied for political asylum last year -- four times
the number from the year before.

Smugglers shift routes frequently, depending on the availability of safe houses
and false documents as well as on pressures applied by law enforcement agencies,
the officials said.

While some of the illegal immigrants fly directly into the United States and
seek asylum on arrival, two other routes into the country appear to be carrying
heavy traffic.

In April, U.S. officials apprehended three separate groups -- involving 86
Chinese -- smuggled into Puerto Rico by sea from the Dominican Republic. Once in
Puerto Rico, they can fly to the U.S. mainland without passing through
immigration controls.

The other favored route is to go by air or ship to somewhere in Mexico or
Central America and then travel north across the border illegally, U.S.
officials said.

The recent indictment of an alleged snakehead leader in New York indicates how
substantial numbers of people are transported across the border, the officials
said. The indictment charged that Chen Guo Ping had helped arrange the transport
of about 176 illegal Chinese immigrants by ship to Mexico and then across the
border. The indictment alleged that after arriving in New York City, Chen's
gang, the White Tigers, held the immigrants in safe houses until fees of about $
30,000 each had been paid on their behalf. Chen has denied the charges.

The discovery that large numbers of Chinese use these complex routes has obliged
U.S. officials to reassess their view of the marine traffic that received so
much attention last year after several incidents, including the shipwreck of the
Golden Venture on a New York City beach with more than 300 immigrants aboard.

"The pipelines and way stations appear to have been in place for several years,"
one official said, "and the smugglers seem to have been looking for a more
profitable, cost-effective means of transport when they began to bring big loads
of people directly to the United States."

U.S. officials believe that they were able to significantly deter the use of
ships by arresting some top snakehead leaders, intercepting several ships and
winning the cooperation of the Chinese government. But they caution that
smugglers could turn again to ships in the future if other routes are blocked.

Only one ship is known to have landed illegal immigrants directly in the
continental United States since the Golden Venture incident last June -- a
vessel that dropped about 110 people onto the Virginia coast in March. More than
60 of the passengers were discovered during a raid on a Prince George's County
safe house April 5.

Proclaiming that "today we send a strong and clear message," Clinton called
congressional leaders to the White House last July 27 to unveil a package of
measures designed to combat such smuggling. Doubled prison sentences, expanded
use of wiretaps, application of racketeering statutes, more aggressive asset
seizures and the quick exclusion of emigres who arrive without proper
documentation were all part of the message.

So far, none of those measures has cleared a full committee in either house of
Congress and there appears to be little prospect for any action this year. A
crowded agenda has diverted attention from the issue on Capitol Hill, and the
administration has shifted the focus of its immigration initiatives to the
Mexican border, which is this year's hot topic because of agitation in
California.

Making the case for the measures, a senior law enforcement official said,
"People have gotten a false sense of security about Chinese alien smuggling, and
it has dropped off the political radar screen, but in the meantime the problem
is getting bigger."


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, CHINESE SMUGGLING ROUTES (GRAPHIC WAS UNAVAILABLE.), BRAD
WYE

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              90 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 6, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

INS Frees Malaysian Tourists

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The 15 remaining Malaysian tourists held in jail as witnesses in an
immigrant-smuggling case against their guide were ordered out of the United
States after charges were dropped. The guide also was told to leave.

Immigration agents detained 24 tourists, led by Chee Kheong Choong, 38, on
arrival from Paris at Logan International Airport Oct. 21. Nine were released
and left this week.

One defense lawyer, Norman Zalkind, said the tourists were honest visitors.
Another, Henry Owens, said, "If my client was a white European, this would never
have happened."

Timothy Whelan, deputy director for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Boston, denied racial discrimination and said such detentions were
not uncommon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              91 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 29, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Haitian Ship Crew Suspected In Smuggling of Immigrants

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Up to 100 illegal immigrants hidden aboard a Haitian freighter may have been
smuggled to shore, where they were loaded into waiting vans, authorities said.

Marshall Metzgar, chief agent of the U.S. Border Patrol in Miami, said witnesses
had seen people near the mouth of the Miami River piling into waiting vans
Thursday night.

"One witness stated she saw 40 to 50 men, women and children loaded into just
two vans," Metzgar said. "Of course, the four crewmen said there hadn't been
anybody else there."

When Border Patrol agents inspected the 60-foot Victoria Express, they found "a
lot of secret compartments large enough to hide a large amount of people, maybe
up to 100," Metzgar said.

Agents seized the ship and jailed the crew. The captain, William Joseph, will be
charged with smuggling -- if authorities can prove he smuggled any Haitians into
the country, Metzgar said.

"But in all reality, they're probably all gone," he said.

The U.S. Coast Guard has intercepted more than 38,000 Haitian refugees at sea
since last fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              92 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 14, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

America's Homes Hide an Underground Economy;
U.S. Is Forced to Confront Pervasive Hiring Violations

Barbara Vobejda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1223 words


The overwhelming majority of Americans who employ household workers do so in an
underground economy, and recent publicity about those workers is forcing a
discussion of public policy that government and society have long avoided.

The Internal Revenue Service estimates that three-quarters of employers who owe
Social Security taxes for their domestic workers fail to pay. And immigration
experts say Americans illegally employ more than 2 million undocumented workers,
many for household work.

What has driven so many otherwise law-abiding Americans into this legal and
moral gray area?

The answer ranges from simple ignorance to desperation. Some experts compare it
to Prohibition, when laws against alcohol were widely disregarded and eventually
abolished.

Many who violate Social Security requirements are unaware that they owe taxes
for occasional maids and weekend babysitters. Others abide by the wishes of
their employees, who are not paying income tax. And most act in confidence that
the laws are rarely enforced.

"How many of us has heard of anybody who has gotten in trouble? . . . Nobody,"
said University of Maryland sociologist Harriet B. Presser. "It's easy to forgo
these situations when you're putting your child first and nobody's looking."

There are also fundamental shifts that have contributed to the large number of
violators: As more women enter the labor force, more families have become
employers, pushing them into an unfamiliar arena of legal requirements.

And many argue that the 1950 Social Security law, which requires employers to
pay taxes on employees who make at least $ 50 a quarter, is seriously outdated.

"That means a category of service purchasing is included that was never
intended," said Martha Farnsworth Riche, a demographer with the Population
Reference Bureau. "Is this compatible with today's society? No it isn't. It's
ridiculous."

There are obviously plenty of employers who knowingly defy the law, specialists
say. But in an effort to exempt those who hire occasional workers, Rep. Andrew
Jacobs Jr. (D-Ind.), who chairs the Ways and Means Social Security subcommittee,
says he will advocate this session a much higher threshold.

"Almost nobody can conceive that hiring a teenaged kid across the street to
watch the kids for a couple of hours on Friday night would lift them to the
status of employer," he said. "I don't think anybody believed they would be
snared into this situation."

For those who hire illegal immigrants, the reasons are often more complex,
ranging from a desperate search for child care to moral judgments that such
violations are not serious.

"We have a lot of illegals in this country who want to work, and we want to
employ them and people don't view it as a crime," said Peter Skerry, director of
the UCLA Center for American Politics and Public Policy. "This ain't a crime,
the way people define crime."

The negative public reaction to President Clinton's original nomination of Zoe
E. Baird to become attorney general indicated that, at least in some circles and
in certain areas of the country, hiring undocumented immigrants is indeed
considered a serious offense.

But defenders point out that, like many others who have hired undocumented
workers, Baird and her husband notified the federal government of their actions,
part of an established process to obtain a Labor Department certification
permitting the employee to work.

"If a government agency doesn't care, that's rather stark proof that this is not
meant to be a law that's enforced," said Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New
York University and a specialist on legal ethics.

Skerry argued that the public attitude toward these immigration laws, as well as
the laws themselves, reflect "our societal ambivalence toward immigrants. This
is wrapped up in our national psyche, our self-image as a nation of immigrants.
. . . We haven't really faced up to how serious we want to be about controlling
immigration."

The Census Bureau estimates that there are about 3.3 million undocumented
immigrants living in this country, a number that increases by about 200,000 each
year. And immigration experts say most of them are working.

There are no reliable statistics on the number of undocumented workers in U.S.
households. And there are few good numbers on the household workers overall.

But sociologists speculate that, as more women work outside the home, more and
more households will hire domestic employees.

Mary Romero, a sociologist and author of "Maid in the U.S.A.," cites an estimate
that 43 percent of working women hire household help.

The Internal Revenue Service estimates that 2 million employers should be filing
Social Security taxes for their domestic workers each quarter, but only 500,000
do so. Those workers range from gardeners to babysitters, anyone who meets a
20-point test qualifying them as an employee rather than an independent
contractor.

Not all of those who skirt the laws are highly paid, two-earner families like
Baird and her husband.

"The lower you slip down the economic ladder, the more likely you are to use the
off-the-books market," said Patricia Ireland, president of the National
Organization for Women. A working mother making $ 25,000 a year "is likely to
slip money to a neighbor to take care of her kids." Neither woman feels she can
afford to pay Social Security taxes, Ireland said. And the neighbor may well be
operating an unlicensed home day-care center.

It is also common for welfare recipients and the elderly to hide from the
government any money they earn on the side to avoid having their benefits cut or
eliminated.

Officials at the IRS and the Social Security Administration say they have
advocated a simpler method that would let domestic employers pay taxes on their
employees as part of the annual income tax process.

They also make the point that, when Social Security taxes go unpaid, employers
are denying their workers what could be their only retirement income. "These are
often women, and minority women, a segment of society that reaches old age at
the lowest incomes," said Phil Gambino, a Social Security spokesman.

Ireland and others have suggested a host of policy solutions, ranging from
reform of immigration and tax laws to improving child-care options.

In the meantime in Washington, questions about nannies and maids continue to
create anxiety for hundreds of prospective Clinton administration officials who
wait to be vetted after Baird's withdrawal for illegally hiring a Peruvian
couple and U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood's subsequent withdrawal from
consideration for the attorney general's post even though she legally employed
an undocumented alien.

Focusing on such "minutiae," argues Amitai Etzioni, a sociologist at George
Washington University and editor of a journal that examines matters of public
policy and community, is ultimately counterproductive.

"We're squandering our moral indignation," he said, citing not only the uproar
over domestic help, but references to Wood's brief training in the 1960s at a
Playboy club. "The next thing they'll find is people who practice jaywalking.
Government would be composed of Mother Teresa and Ralph Nader," he said.

"I assure you, excepting these two people, give me any person and I'll find a
law they have violated."


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, REP. ANDREW JACOBS JR.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              93 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 6, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

Chinese Alien's American Dream Ends in Virginia Jail

Michael S. Arnold, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 1146 words


Yang Kwok Gin's first Fourth of July in the United States was not exactly what
he expected.

Like millions of immigrants before him, Yang came to America with dreams of
building a better life. Instead, he spent the Independence Day holiday at a
maximum-security jail in Manassas, where he has been held for a month by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) while the government moves to
deport him.

"Sometimes I think about committing suicide," Yang said softly in a recent
interview, looking at the walls around him. "I'd rather just die in here."

Yang, 37, is among many victims of an unscrupulous smuggling ring that duped
him, with promises of work and freedom, into pledging $ 28,000 for his passage
from China. He and other recently smuggled Chinese refugees in INS detention are
being used by the Clinton administration to test a new hard-line policy designed
to deter smugglers and would-be illegal immigrants.

Many of the refugees are reduced to indentured servitude in the sweatshops and
restaurants of New York's Chinatown. Others turn to crime, drugs or prostitution
to pay for their passage.

Still others, like Yang, never get that far. On May 1, he was met at New York's
John F. Kennedy International Airport by a tall man he knew only as "Mr. Chang"
and taken directly to an abandoned warehouse in Jersey City.

"I was very happy, very excited," Yang said recently through an interpreter at
the Prince William-Manassas Regional Adult Detention Center. He described the
early-morning ride in Chang's station wagon, his only taste of freedom in
America. "It was so colorful," he said. "There were beautiful cars. No bicycles.
And I was very impressed by the roads. They were paved."

But, he continued, "As soon as I reached the warehouse, I started to cry."

Yang did not leave the warehouse, whose steel door was padlocked, until 23 days
later when police raided it. Upstairs, authorities said, they found 57 illegal
immigrants in a room the size of a two-car garage, with barred and closed
windows, no mattresses and several jury-rigged fans. A single toilet, fetid and
overflowing, was next to a first-floor room where four enforcers, also Chinese,
slept.

Yang said the enforcers fed the prisoners once a day, cooking with a wok on a
stove tapped into the building's gas line. Although the smugglers had promised
Yang work in America to pay his debt, the enforcers told him that he would be
held hostage until his family in China paid the money.

Yang's story is not unique. INS officials estimate that about 500,000 immigrants
enter the United States illegally each year, as many as 100,000 through
smuggling operations.

Yang, his wife, three children, parents and grandparents tended orange trees on
tiny Tong An, an island off the coast of China's Fujian Province. "It was too
hard for us, just survival," Yang said. A single bulb weakly lit one room of the
family's rickety, three-room house, which, like most houses in his village,
frequently was destroyed by typhoons.

Yang's wife cooked meals, rubbing sticks to ignite mounds of dry grass and twigs
the family collected. They lived on a simple diet of rice and vegetables and
fish that Yang caught in his nets.

The government refused to pay subsidies for his second and third children, Yang
said, and his meager orange crop often lost money. When friends introduced him
to smugglers who showed him pictures of tall buildings in America and told him
that he could find work here, he was interested.

"A lot of people knew about" the smuggling system, Yang said. Some who had gone
before returned with their U.S. work permits and their dollars, recruiting
others to make the trip. The smugglers were willing to loan him, at high
interest, $ 23,000 for plane tickets and phony documents, telling Yang that he
could pay the rest when he got a job in America.

"The documents were all in English, so we couldn't even tell if they were real,"
Yang said. But when he saw his picture in a passport, he said, "I just wanted to
trust them."

Sometime in February, Yang, who had never even ridden in a car, boarded a plane
from Fuzhou to Hong Kong. There, he said, he was locked in a windowless room
and, eventually, put on a plane to New York.

"Don't be afraid," the smugglers told Yang. "Everything will be all right. Even
if immigration catches you, there's no way they'll send you back."

But Yang arrived in the United States during what may be a turning point in U.S.
immigration policy. Smugglers' ships slipping beneath the Golden Gate Bridge and
refugees drowning while swimming to the New York shore have swelled demands to
tighten U.S. borders. Immigration activists warn of an anti-immigrant backlash,
saying bona fide refugees could be denied justice.

"This is a hysteria coming over the country," said Jules Covin, a New York
lawyer representing Yang and 22 other Chinese in the Manassas jail. "Right now,
this is against all aliens."

But INS spokesman Duke Austin countered, "This is not xenophobia or paranoia.
This is reality."

For Yang, reality is bewildering. When he agreed to his original $ 35,000 bail,
he said, he thought it was $ 35. He does not understand the lengthy and complex
deportation process, and although he has been told that he is in Virginia, he
does not know where that is or why he was taken there.

In fact, the move, undertaken because detention centers in New York were filled,
has provided unexpected benefits.

"This is a great revenue-earner for the community," said Col. Glendell Hill,
superintendent of the Manassas facility, which receives $ 64 a day from the INS
for each Chinese inmate. The jail's daily cost to feed each prisoner, plus a
minimal expense for laundry, is $ 3.15, Hill said.

Prisoner Yang has gained weight eating the jail's heavier American food and
extra portions of rice. He is baffled by the exercise equipment. He has become a
fan of late-night, Chinese-language soap operas on WNVC, Channel 56. He noted
that sneakers provided him by the jail were made in China. He has worn socks for
the first time in jail and said that, if deported to China, he may be able to
sell them.

For now, Yang is not thinking of sales. His bail has been reduced to $ 15,000,
far above the customary $ 2,500 or so in deportation cases and a sum he has
scant hope of raising. He is concerned: If he does meet bail, the smuggling
gangs might find him and demand their money. If he is deported to China, he
might face a prison term and sizable fines, if he is lucky. He fears execution
for having disgraced his country by fleeing.

Yang is more afraid of the Chinese government. "With the smugglers, I can
negotiate. If they kill me, they won't get their money, right?"

"I'm hoping that America will just sympathize," he said. "I've got nothing but
hope. At first, it seemed like such an honest little plan. Now I'm too scared."


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SOME OF THE 23 CHINESE BEING HELD IN THE MANASSAS JAIL MEET TO
TALK AND WATCH TELEVISION. CHINESE-LANGUAGE PROGRAMS ARE AVAILABLE ON CHANNEL
56. LARRY MORRIS

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              94 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 8, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. Border Toll Urged as Revenue Raiser;
Old Idea Gains New Support in Senate as Answer to Burgeoning Immigration-Related
Costs

Michael S. Arnold, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 817 words


Lawmakers eager to crack down on illegal immigration without raiding the
Treasury to pay for it have revived a decade-old proposal to charge a toll for
crossing overland from Canada and Mexico into the United States.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), who proposed the border-crossing fee in June,
estimates that a $ 1 fee could raise more than $ 400 million a year. The money
could be used to strengthen the border patrol, cover immigration-related costs
and facilitate border traffic, she said.

Sen. Alan K. Simpson (R-Wyo.) first proposed a border toll in 1982 -- long
before immigration became a hot-button issue -- but his bill was defeated for
fear that it would discourage tourism.

"This revenue should first go to beef up the border gates on the San Diego
border," Feinstein testified before a House subcommittee last week. "This is an
idea whose time has come."

Last year, nearly half of the 1.2 million illegal immigrants caught by the
border patrol were apprehended along the California-Mexico border near San
Diego. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) estimates that its
agents catch only about one-third of those who enter the country illegally.

President Clinton, whose original budget proposal would have cut 93 agents from
the 4,770-strong force, called in July for adding 600 agents and $ 45 million to
the border patrol. But others say it would take more than 5,000 new agents to
secure the porous southwestern border.

Among the benefits of the proposed toll, backers say, is that it is a "user fee"
raising revenue from those who benefit directly from greater border security and
efficiency and doesn't tax the entire country.  But Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.),
co-chair of the House GOP's new Task Force on Illegal Immigration, said Friday
that a border toll "penalizes the ones that are legally coming in, while those
that are illegally coming in aren't paying anything."

Border-town residents and North American Free Trade Agreement advocates say a
toll might create more problems than it would solve.

"This would be disastrous for our city and would create immigration problems
like no one could describe to you," El Paso (Tex.) Mayor Larry Francis told a
Government Operations subcommittee. "Any attempt to reduce the flow of people
will . . . initiate another economic downturn, another peso devaluation and
ultimately a new massive illegal immigration north."

INS operations official James Puleo listed other potential "negative
ramifications" of a border fee: It could create long lines of cars at toll
booths, increasing air pollution. It could require a complete monetary inventory
every 30 minutes as agents -- who might be offered bribes in exchange for entry
into the country -- rotated between collection and inspection duties. It could
cause confusion if INS agents are tasked with exchanging foreign currency or are
confronted with U.S. citizens who can't afford the $ 1 toll.

It also might require expensive remodeling of border crossing facilities and
outlays for recruiting and managing toll collectors. It could even lead to
increased illegal immigration to skirt the toll.

A State Department official warned that the plan likely would call forth
reciprocal tolls from Canada and Mexico and would require renegotiation of the
1988 Free Trade Agreement with Canada.

Neither Canada nor Mexico was consulted on the fee proposal prior to the
subcommittee hearing, according to Donna J. Hrinak, deputy assistant secretary
of state for inter-American affairs. "We are confident, based on past
experience, that both of them would object strongly to any such proposal," she
testified.

A border toll also would require an unusual level of coordination between the
INS and the Customs Service, which, as several lawmakers noted at the hearing,
are often engaged in "turf wars."

Feinstein later issued a statement criticizing INS and the State Department for
"the same tired bureaucratic responses" that had derailed similar proposals in
the past. Subcommittee chairman Gary Condit (D-Calif.) said he wished the
agencies involved could be "more solution-oriented."

"We have a problem in terms of controlling the borders. . . . " Condit said. "It
seems to me that it makes sense to do this, but we need to pin down some of the
actual costs to implement it."

Renewed interest in a border toll comes just after a Justice Department audit in
July found that INS, which claims to be underfunded, could generate at least $
170 million annually by charging appropriate fees for inspections and other
services. Currently, the report said, INS does not charge fees for about 91
percent of the 476 million inspections it conducts or for 1 million of the 3.8
million petitions and applications it processes each year. Passengers arriving
from abroad by air and on most ships already pay a $ 5 fee that is collected by
airlines and cruise lines.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SEN. ALAN K. SIMPSON

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              95 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 17, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

California's Default

Lou Cannon

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California's politicians are competing in an emotional and escalating campaign
to exploit fears of illegal immigration, and it is not a pretty sight.

Republican state legislators started the contest early this year with a series
of bills, since buried in committee, that would have denied illegals access to
most state government services. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D) took up the chase in
Congress with a relatively innocuous proposal to charge a $ 1 toll at
U.S.-Mexican border crossings and use the revenues to beef up the Border Patrol.
This didn't go far enough for her usually more liberal Democratic colleague in
the Senate, Barbara Boxer, who called for sending thousands of National Guard
troops to patrol the border.

Boxer has now been wildly outbid by Gov. Pete Wilson (R), who captured headlines
and the enthusiasm of radio talk shows with a recent appeal to President Clinton
to lift federal mandates requiring health, welfare and educational services for
immigrants. Wilson, once an immigration moderate, also proposed a radical
amendment to the Constitution that would deny citizenship to children of
illegals born in the United States.

"When you have Pete Wilson on the right and Barbara Boxer on the left jumping on
the same train, it's clear they're paying attention to the politics," observed
pollster Mervin Field, who says that current agitation about immigration is the
most intense he has seen in nearly a half-century of voter surveying in
California.

This agitation strikes a responsive chord in a state with a 10 percent jobless
rate, few prospects for economic recovery and half the nation's illegal
immigrants. New estimates by the U.S. Census Bureau place the number of illegals
in the United States at 4 million, not in itself alarming. But 2 million of
these "undocumented immigrants," as the government calls them, are in
California, which has a population of 31.5 million people. Wilson estimated that
government services provided to illegal immigrants cost the state $ 2.3 billion
annually.

The problem with Wilson's figures, according to academic analysts who cannot
compete with him in visibility, is that they emphasize costs and ignore
contributions. A Los Angeles County study showed that immigrants who had arrived
in the county since 1980 paid $ 4.3 billion annually in federal, state and local
taxes as of 1992. But most of the money went into federal coffers. The county
received only $ 139 million of these tax revenues while spending $ 947 million
on services for immigrants.

Another study, by George Vernez for the Rand Corp., found a similar national
pattern. The benefits from the taxes and economic activity of illegal immigrants
are diffused, while taxpayers in a few urban areas bear a disproportionate share
of the costs of educating immigrant children and paying for their medical care.
Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego, New York, Chicago and Miami are among the
big losers.

Vernez's preferred solution is a federal payment to cities and states adversely
affected by immigration. Wilson also started out with this reasonable view,
asking the Clinton administration for $ 1.45 billion as the state's share of
immigration costs. But the White House cut the figure by more than half, and the
House-Senate committee on the budget then took out another $ 300 million to
defray Medicaid costs of immigrants. California, which has pared services to the
bone after three years of recession, wound up with only $ 324 million in impact
aid.

What the scholars say is needed is not National Guard troops or Draconian
sanctions against immigrants but a sensible sharing of the costs. This ought to
appeal to President Clinton, who needs to be responsive to the immigration issue
if he hopes to carry California again.

Wilson, facing an uphill battle for reelection next year, added heat rather than
light to the debate when he threw in the proposed constitutional amendment that
flies in the face of American tradition and family values. The amendment is
"nonsensical," contends UCLA urban affairs specialist and demographer Leo
Estrada, because it would encourage solitary immigration rather than the
immigration of families.

"When there is a family network to build on, it helps set the stage for
adaptation," said Estrada. "The idea of breaking down family unification
encourages more isolated individuals to immigrate. All of our studies have shown
that this is the least desirable immigration."

It is far easier to stir anti-immigrant fears during a time of economic crisis
than to show leadership in devising a political solution that would spread the
costs as well as the benefits of immigration.

Unfortunately, such leadership is conspicuous by its absence in California.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, BISHOP

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              96 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 9, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

Chinese Refugees' New Western Stop: East Europe;
Thousands of Illegal Aliens, Many Bound for U.S., Stranded in Prague, Other
Cities

John Pomfret, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: PRAGUE


With its garish red phoenixes and green dragons, and a neon sign advertising
Tsingtao Beer, the Golden Lotus looks like an average Chinese restaurant on any
busy European street. The only problem is that the Golden Lotus, a one-room
bistro with eight tables, has 325 employees.

The restaurant, Czech investigators say, is one of dozens of Chinese-owned
businesses here that have sprouted in the past two years to serve not Czechs
hungry for Chinese food, but Chinese hungry to flee China.

In Prague, Budapest, Bucharest and Warsaw, scores of Chinese-owned businesses
have taken advantage of relaxed East European immigration and investment
policies to smuggle thousands of Chinese out of China along a corridor from
Beijing to Moscow to Eastern Europe and the West.

When Czech police investigators stopped an illegal Chinese immigrant two months
ago and took him back to his apartment, they were surprised to find that the
dingy third-floor apartment was the mail drop for 130 Chinese companies.

"None of them did any business here," said Miroslava Polova, an official of the
Czech Republic's Foreign and Frontier Police. "They just used the businesses as
a way to get visas for the Chinese. They'd register the business, use the
license to import workers. But once the Chinese got here, they would move them
to the West."

Now, however, as a result of tighter immigration policies in Western Europe and
moves by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to stem the
influx of Chinese into the United States, thousands of Chinese are finding
themselves stuck in Eastern Europe.

In the last week of October 1992, for example, 109 Chinese illegal aliens were
found arriving at New York's Kennedy International Airport, mostly on flights
from Europe. In the same week of this year, the total was down to seven, five
with fake Japanese passports and two with no documents at all, according to an
INS agent.

Germany also has recently tightened its restrictions on Chinese carrying Czech
residence permits. Formerly they could get visas in a day; now it takes two
months. Airlines flying into the United States have tightened checks on their
passengers' travel documents.

By night, Li Daming, 26, washes dishes at the Golden Lotus. By day, the former
factory worker tries to find the men who took $ 8,000 of his relatives' money
and promised him a ticket to the United States.

"I'm stuck here. I've got no money," said Li, who eagerly shows pictures of his
3-year-old daughter back home in Tianjin. "I can eat because I'm at the
restaurant, but that's not a life. Sometimes I think I'd like to return to
China, but if I did I couldn't face my family."

Zhao Wei, 22, who was selling down vests and long underwear on a recent autumn
day in Prague, said "friends" in the United States paid $ 10,000 on a promise
that she would be in New York's Chinatown by June. "They have a job for me in a
nice bar with Chinese businessmen," said the woman from the southern coastal
city of Fuzhou. "But my big boss here says everything is difficult now.
Sometimes I wake up in the morning and I forget where I am."

Since the fall of communism and the opening of borders, Chinese and other
groups, including Russians, Ukrainians, Armenians, Pakistanis and Sri Lankans,
have been using Eastern Europe as a route to the West.

For several years, Budapest was the center of the trade in human cargo because
of its lax enforcement and the ease with which illegal aliens could move on into
Austria and then to Germany and France.

But in the spring of last year, Hungarian police began rounding up Chinese and
other illegal aliens. Hundreds were placed in a former communist detention
center in Kerepestarcsa, where riots broke out because of harsh living
conditions. Border patrols were tightened and close to 1 million people of all
nationalities were denied entry because they lacked proper travel documents or
sufficient funds to pay for their trip home. In March 1992, Hungary also
reinstituted visa requirements for Chinese.

The business moved north to Prague. The city's Chinese restaurants multiplied to
30 from three in less than a year, Czech police official Polova said, partly
because of rising tourism but also as a way to secure residency cards for
Chinese. Chinese textile firms also opened dozens of outlets. Some conducted
legitimate business, but others, such as the 130 firms based in the illegal
resident's apartment, simply sought to use the business license as a way to
import "workers" and move them out as cargo later on, she said.

In late 1992, the Czech Republic followed Hungary's lead and instituted visa
requirements for Chinese. Still, the number of Chinese increased. Now there are
about 3,000 Chinese legally in the Czech Republic, Polova said, but unofficial
figures put the number closer to 20,000.

This concentration of Chinese is causing headaches for the local authorities
because, while most Chinese immigrants are law-abiding, some work for gangs
seeking to spread their influence to Eastern Europe. In addition, the
cash-strapped Czech government cannot afford to send home Chinese who are in the
Czech Republic illegally.

"We really don't know what to do with these people," Polova said.

The Interior Ministry is floating a plan that would force Chinese seeking to
come to the Czech Republic to put up a deposit to cover their return tickets.
However, the plan probably will face stiff opposition from the Foreign Ministry.

Polova said she believes the trade will move next to Poland. Earlier this year,
Polish investigators arrested 17 alien smugglers engaged in counterfeiting
passports and U.S. visas, the INS agent said, adding that the forgeries had
already turned up in Detroit and Boston.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, DAVE COOK

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              97 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 17, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

Catholic Bishops Condemn Hostility to Immigrants

Gustav Niebuhr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 575 words


A committee of the nation's Roman Catholic bishops that deals with immigration
issues unveiled a strongly worded statement yesterday denouncing growing
hostility toward immigrants while also warning against "a new wave of nativism"
in the United States.

"As pastors, we are deeply concerned about the growing hostility toward
immigrants evident now in some parts of society and even, sad to say, supported
by some public officials," said the statement by the committee on migration of
the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.

The statement came amid a rising public outcry against illegal immigration that
has been echoed by some state officials and members of Congress. The statement,
which did not distinguish between legal and illegal newcomers, said immigrants
are being made scapegoats for a weak economy.

"In the context of Catholic social teaching and, indeed, in the light of our
Judeo-Christian heritage, such an attitude is not acceptable," said the
document, titled "Immigrants and Refugees in the United States Today: A Call to
Solidarity."

The statement was authorized by a unanimous vote of the bishops' conference at
its semiannual meeting in the Omni Shoreham Hotel. In remarks before the nearly
300 bishops gathered there, the committee's chairman, Archbishop Theodore E.
McCarrick of Newark, said a "very virulent plague" of antagonism toward
immigrants was spreading in this country.

Some of the toughest talk for cracking down on illegal immigrants has been heard
in California, mired in a deep recession. In August, Gov. Pete Wilson (R) called
for a constitutional amendment denying citizenship to children born in the
United States to illegal immigrants. Later, state Treasurer Kathleen Brown (D),
a likely opponent of Wilson in next year's gubernatorial contest, said
California could save money if illegal Mexican immigrants convicted of crimes
were deported to serve their sentences.

Outside the bishops' meeting, McCarrick said the statement was not meant as
specific criticism of any region or its political leaders, nor was it a call for
ending all restrictions on immigration.

The Rev. Richard Ryscavage, executive director of the U.S. Catholic Conference's
Office of Migration and Refugee Services, which helped to draft the statement,
said: "There's no [organized] constituency for immigrants. So it's easy to bash
the immigrants, because it's not easy for them to talk back. And that's where
the church enters in."

In another matter yesterday, Catholics for a Free Choice (CFFC), which describes
itself as an educational organization supporting rights to family planning and
abortion, held a news conference to respond to a critical statement by the
bishops.

Two weeks ago, the bishops' administrative committee said the Washington-based
organization "attracts public attention by its denunciations of basic principles
of Catholic morality and teaching -- denunciations given enhanced visibility by
media outlets that portray CFFC as a reputable voice of Catholic dissent."

The bishops' committee said that the organization can "in no way speak for the
Catholic Church" and that it "merits no recognition or support as a Catholic
organization."

Frances Kissling, the group's president, said: "We have never claimed to speak
for the institutional church. By the same token, I don't think the institutional
church speaks for a majority of Catholics on a wide range of issues involving
sexuality."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              98 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      April 8, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrant Surrenders

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A decorated Marine turned himself in to authorities and admitted he was an
illegal immigrant, but he probably will not be deported.

Sgt. Danny Lightfoot, who is stationed in Barstow, is a native of the Bahamas.
He entered the country on a student visa but stayed after it expired. He
enlisted in 1983, using fake documents. The Marines discovered he was an illegal
immigrant in 1991, but he was not prosecuted because of his outstanding record,
his lawyer said.

Lightfoot, 29, surrendered to the Immigration and Naturalization Service on
Tuesday, saying he wanted to become a citizen.

"I did it for myself and my family," Lightfoot said. One of his three children
is a U.S. citizen, but the two born outside the country are not. His wife,
Raquel, is a Bahamian citizen and is seeking legal residency in the United
States.

Los Angeles INS deputy director Donald B. Looney said it was "very unlikely"
Lightfoot would be deported, and that his office would recommend that Lightfoot
and his family be allowed to stay.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              99 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 25, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Calculating The Costs of Immigration

Charles W. Hall, Steve Bates, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8

LENGTH: 551 words


Can local governments calculate the cost of providing services to illegal
immigrants?

Despite the lack of data on how many illegal immigrants live in the United
States, growing numbers of local governments have tried to produce cost
estimates, especially where immigration has been greatest.

In recent years, state and local governments in California, Florida and Texas
have tried to tally the costs, assigning portions of various program costs to
the presumed population of illegal immigrants. Their uniform conclusion: Illegal
immigrants, often among the poorest in society, consume more in government
services than they pay in taxes.

Such studies have been controversial. Critics say they are political documents
designed to inflate the costs and minimize the contributions of recent
immigrants and that jurisdictions use the studies to try to receive more
compensation from the federal government.

Officials from Florida and California have already signaled they want federal
funding to help cover services for immigrants -- through the courts if
necessary. And the Clinton administration has said that next year's budget will
include some local relief for governments serving large numbers of illegal
immigrants.

All studies suffer from a lack of hard data. Variables such as the number of
illegal immigrants and the rate at which they use services can't be pinned down,
in part because these are people who don't want to be counted. In many cases,
transient living situations also make estimating difficult, officials say. "I
take all of those studies with a grain of salt," said George Borjas, an
economist at the University of California at San Diego.

One study, by the Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies, attempted to
make national estimates of the needs of illegal immigrants for 13 government
services. That study determined that 14.8 percent of all illegal immigrants
would need Medicaid, compared with 9.5 percent of the general population.

But the study also concluded that only half of those in need -- -or 7.4 percent
of all illegal immigrants -- -would actually get Medicaid, which for them is
limited to prenatal and emergency care.

If that rate is accurate, about $ 20 million in Medicaid money in 1993 would
have been received by illegal immigrants in the Washington area, out of a total
Medicaid expenditure of $ 1.3 billion. That is based on a review of INS data
suggesting an area population of 70,000 illegal immigrants.

The study suggested that 2.25 percent of all illegal immigrants -- compared with
1.8 percent of all U.S. citizens -- receive food vouchers from the federal
Women, Infants and Children program. At that rate, illegal immigrants would have
received about $ 900,000 of the $ 37 million spent locally on that program last
year.

Jeffrey S. Passel, an Urban Institute researcher who has closely studied
immigration issues, said most studies understate the taxes paid by immigrants
and ignore their economic contributions as they adapt.

Similar studies, Passel said, would show many groups, including middle-class
families with schoolchildren, take more in government services than they pay in
local taxes. "I have two children in the Arlington schools, and I'm quite sure
my property taxes don't pay for their education," Passel said.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              100 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 12, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Latinos Vow to Fight 'Anti-Immigrant' Tide

Lisa Leff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: DISTRICT WEEKLY; PAGE J3

LENGTH: 741 words


Latino leaders and residents in the Washington area concluded a week-long
"community congress" Saturday by vowing to fight what they see as a wave of
sentiment against the region's growing population of new immigrants.

The Latino Congreso Comunitario was held to commemorate the 1991 disturbances in
the District's Mount Pleasant neighborhood and to build on the grass-roots
political movement that resulted.

In final planning sessions Saturday, members of the Latino Civil Rights Task
Force said they will campaign aggressively against the climate that produced a
recent legislative proposal in Virginia to curtail social services to illegal
immigrants and a Maryland bill making English the state language.

The campaign would include forming alliances with Asian American, African
American and Jewish groups, setting up a formal lobbying arm, initiating a
mainstream media drive and raising money for legal expenses. Participants also
discussed studying the economic power of Latinos and creating awards to draw
attention to Latino contributions.

"Right now, there is not a regional force to fight these anti-immigrant feelings
and to say we won't tolerate them," Pedro Aviles, executive director of the task
force, said during a workshop on building coalitions. "We need to reach out to
sympathetic groups, like how Martin Luther King did during the civil rights
era."

The congress was sponsored by the task force, the region's major Latino advocacy
group, as a way to involve the Latino community in civic affairs. It included a
voter-registration drive and meetings for Latino activists in the city, Maryland
and Virginia. With a budget of $ 15,000, it was funded primarily by local
corporations and community agencies.

Long-time activists agree that Latino community has become better organized
politically in the three years since Mount Pleasant erupted in three days of
rock-throwing after a police officer shot a Latino man who was being arrested.
The task force, formed soon afterward, founded two new chapters this year, one
in Northern Virginia and one in suburban Maryland.

"If mobilization and pulling from the grass-roots are part of our intent, this
congreso shows we have been successful. A rainy Saturday morning drew a fairly
good-sized group of people and not only people from the city," said Beatriz
"BeBe" Otero, a member of the group's board of directors.

But even as the community has been finding its voice, Otero and other activists
said, the climate for Latinos has worsened. They cited the legislation proposed
by a state lawmaker from Fairfax that would have required Virginia agencies to
tally the cost of services provided to illegal immigrants and report clients who
are not legal residents to federal authorities.

The legislation was defeated, but Gov. George Allen has ordered public schools
to stop serving illegal immigrants once they turn 18, effective July 1. Task
force leaders said they are studying whether to challenge Allen's policy in
court.

Task force members said they also were discouraged about the passage of a
Maryland bill designating English the official language of the state and its
business. The legislation would prevent agencies such as the Motor Vehicle
Administration from issuing documents in languages besides English.

Exceptions could be made when bilingual documents are necessary to protect the
public's health and safety, but task force leaders say the bill would
"marginalize" non-English speakers. Maryland Gov. William Donald Schaefer has
said he is inclined to veto the bill, and he has until May 25 to do so.

Task force president Mauricio Alarcon said even the relatively friendly
administration of D.C. Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly has been disappointing. Alarcon
said Kelly has been slow to implement many task force recommendations for making
D.C. government more responsive to Latinos, even those that would not cost
money.

But Carmen Ramirez, director of the Mayor's Office of Latino Affairs, said the
Latino community is partly at fault for any lack of progress because it has not
amassed its influence in the most effective ways.

"People just see us in the welfare lines. They see us having riots in the
streets. They don't see us participating in the PTAs; they don't see us as
players in the ANCs and the Democratic central committees. We have a lot to
give, but we are not in the mainstream organizations and we need to be there,"
Ramirez said.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              101 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 27, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Texas to Sue Over Illegal Immigrants

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.


The state of Texas said it plans to sue the federal government to recover costs
incurred by illegal immigrants.

"The failure of the U.S. government to enforce its immigration laws places an
enormous strain upon state government, municipalities, counties and citizens,"
Texas Attorney General Dan Morales said in a letter to Gov. Ann Richards.

Texas will become the fourth state -- after Florida, California and Arizona --
to sue over the issue.

Texas, which shares a 1,200-mile border with Mexico, houses about 10 percent of
the estimated 3.2 million illegal immigrants in the United States, according to
1992 federal government statistics. It ranks fourth behind California, New York
and Florida in undocumented immigrant population.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              102 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 27, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Probes INS Office In Arlington;
5 Illegal Immigrants Got Work Permits

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 829 words


The U.S. Justice Department is investigating whether employees of the Arlington
office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service are involved in the sale of
work permits to illegal immigrants, according to sources and papers filed in
U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

Although its full scope remains unclear, the investigation by the Justice
Department's inspector general's office is aimed at more than one employee in
the Arlington INS office, sources said. Specifically, investigators are seeking
to determine how five undocumented aliens living in New Jersey came to have work
permits issued from the Arlington office on a single day last December.

The investigation came to light after the recent arrest of Norberto Escobar, 38,
of Springfield, who owns a business that helps immigrants obtain documents.

Escobar was charged June 11 with illegally arranging for five immigrants living
in New Jersey to secure Social Security cards and documents allowing them to
work in the United States.

Each document serves as proof that immigrants are in this country legally,
having met strict criteria for entry into the United States. Without such
documents it is virtually impossible for an immigrant to get a job.

Escobar is currently free on a $ 100,000 unsecured bond. He said yesterday that
"some allegations have been made against myself, but they are not true." He
would not comment further.

Escobar has waived his rights to a preliminary hearing and a speedy trial,
according to court papers.

The cards obtained by the New Jersey men, allegedly with Escobar's help, "were
genuine cards which had been issued that day from the Arlington, Virginia, INS
office," according to an affidavit in support of a warrant for Escobar's arrest.
"After examining all five cards and consulting the INS computer records, [it was
determined] that they had been issued sequentially, at the same time, and had
all been issued by the same INS employee."

The affidavit did not name the employee who allegedly issued the cards.

The Arlington office provides documentation and services to immigrants living in
the District and Virginia.

The affidavit details the cases of the five illegal immigrants who told
investigators that, after paying Escobar, they secured work authorization cards
from the INS office in Arlington without filling out any application and were
never interviewed by INS staff.

"The aliens each paid three hundred dollars in New Jersey . . . and they
understood they were each to pay . . . an additional four hundred dollars upon
arrival in Virginia," said the affidavit, signed by a special agent with the
inspector general's office. The five men arrived in the area Dec. 6, 1991,
allegedly met with Escobar and obtained the documents they needed.

For his services, Escobar was paid a total of $ 8,500 by the men, according to
the affidavit.

Investigators with the inspector general's office and the INS were alerted by
the Social Security Administration, where workers were suspicious of the men's
applications for Social Security cards, the affidavit said. And when the
investigators interviewed the men, they admitted they entered the country
illegally and gave up the work authorization documents they had received from
the INS office.

According to the affidavit, at least five other illegal immigrants told
investigators that, after paying Escobar, they secured work authorization cards
from the INS office without filling out any application and were never
interviewed by INS staff.

The inspector general's office investigates allegations of waste, fraud and
abuse by employees of the Justice Department, of which the INS is a branch.

A spokesman for the inspector general's office would not comment. An INS
spokesman said he had no details of any investigation.

This is at least the second time in nine months that the inspector general's
office has investigated the Arlington INS office. In September another visa
consultant, Rocio Rivera, publicly alleged that she bribed two INS employees to
help her secure resident alien cards.

Officials later determined that she probably was duped by people posing as INS
officials. She was convicted in December of grand larceny and practicing law
without a license, and was sentenced to 12 years in prison.

Several other recent cases have hinted at an enormous business in the Washington
area in the sale of fraudulently obtained immigration documents, but none has
alleged involvement inside the INS.

In March a Maryland lawyer, Gail Fuller, was convicted on 38 felony counts of
masterminding a scheme to obtain work and residence permits by creating phony
documents and lying to federal employees. She charged immigrants from as far
away as Rhode Island $ 3,000 apiece for services.

And in April 1991, Arlington immigration lawyer Clifford C. Cooper was convicted
of 62 felonies in a similar scam. During the trial, authorities estimated the
scheme netted $ 500,000 in one year alone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              103 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 17, 1992, Friday, Capital Edition

City Seeks to End Border Chases

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A7; AROUND THE WORLD

LENGTH: 69 words

DATELINE: TEMECULA, Calif.


The City Council voted to send Mayor Patricia Birdsall and City Attorney Jerry
Patterson to Washington to ask Congress to curb high-speed chases of
undocumented migrants by the Border Patrol. Six people were killed in a chase
two weeks ago through this city, midway between San Diego and Los Angeles.

The vehicle crashed outside a high school, killing a man, four students and one
of the illegal immigrants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              104 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 28, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Fewer Central Americans Captured Entering U.S.;
Decade-Long Influx Appears to Be Waning

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 927 words


The number of illegal Central American immigrants to the United States appears
to be declining, analysts say, signaling a probable end to a decade-long flow
that brought about 1 million people here from those countries.

Border Patrol arrests of people from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and
Nicaragua dropped sharply in the last two years -- from more than 43,000 in 1989
to 23,000 in 1991 -- and appear headed this year for the lowest level since
1980.

Analysts cautioned that border apprehensions are at best a rough gauge of actual
numbers of people coming to this country. But the decline in Central Americans
detained comes during a two-year period when overall arrests at the border have
been increasing sharply -- from 954,000 in 1989 to 1.2 million last year and
increasing further so far this year. More than 95 percent of those arrested are
Mexican citizens, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The explanations for the apparent decline are hotly debated and reflect the
battle lines over foreign policy toward Central America over the last 10 years.

Conservatives, who insist the Central Americans are "economic migrants,"
emphasize border enforcement efforts here and in Mexico for discouraging people
from coming north. Central Americans, who must often hire 'coyotes' or guides,
face an expensive trip and deportation back home if they are caught.

Liberals, who argue that the Central Americans are refugees fleeing civil war,
say the declining numbers are a direct result of the end of such conflicts,
especially in El Salvador and Nicaragua. They note that while the numbers of
those apprehended from across the region have dropped, those from Nicaragua and
El Salvador have declined most. Arrests of those from Guatemala, which suffers
from chronic political oppression, have dropped more slowly.

"Apprehensions of Central Americans are down on the southern border for a number
of reasons," INS Director Gene McNary said in a recent interview. "We made it
clear they would be detained and sent back," he said, which meant that a "a long
and dangerous trip would be for nothing. That message had a deterrent effect."

A second reason, he said, was increased enforcement activity in the last three
years by the Mexican government to choke off the stream at Mexico's southern
border with Guatemala. INS officials said Mexican authorities caught 133,000
illegal aliens last year, 7,000 more than the year before and much more than in
prior years, when fewer than 100,000 were rounded up.

David Simcox, director of the conservative Center for Immigration Studies,
agreed that the Mexican government's "actions are a big deterrent," reflecting
Mexico's concern that Central Americans are displacing Mexican workers.

Looking at the numbers alone, "you could argue that the great rush is over, that
the pool [of people wanting to come to this country] is empty," Simcox said,
"but I don't think so. The key factor is the Mexican deterrent."

On the other hand, Simcox acknowledged that more Nicaraguans might have decided
to stay home following the 1990 ouster of the leftist Sandinista government
there.

Refugee advocates along the Texas-Mexico border said Central Americans have
noted the Mexican actions. "They say traveling through Mexico is getting very
tough; the journey is much more dangerous; they are deporting more people," said
Delia Gomez, director of the Las Americas Refugee Asylum Project in El Paso.

At the same time, Gomez and Rogelio Nunez, head of Proyecto Libertad in
Harlingen, Tex., along the border hundreds of miles southeast of El Paso, said
they are seeing the same number of Central Americans but the composition has
changed. Salvadorans and especially Nicaraguans seeking assistance appear to
have dropped off but Guatemalans, who now constitute the greatest percentage of
people served, may have made up the shortfall.

Liberals say the changing numbers prove their case. "The primary reason people
have fled Central America over the last 12 years is civil war and political
persecution," said Frank Sharry, head of the National Immigration, Refugee and
Citizenship Forum. "The cessation of hostilities in Nicaragua and El Salvador .
. . means the 'push' factors for those countries have diminished. The numbers
reveal the lie that most of those who fled in the last decade did so for
economic reasons. It doesn't take a genius to figure out that if your house was
going to be bombed, your sons forcibly conscripted or your politically active
spouse 'disappeared,' that the incentive to leave would be high."

Wayne A. Cornelius, head of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the
University of California at San Diego, said the declining numbers show that the
"magnitude of the refugee flows was a direct function of civil conflict and the
expectation that things were not going to get better."

Other experts cautioned that the downward trend of the last two years may not be
permanent, especially if there is a change in the political and economic
stability of the volatile region.

"What we are seeing here is a political blip," said Robert Manning, a sociology
professor at American University. "We are enjoying the afterglow of the peace
accord in El Salvador. That may not last."

Salvadorans in this area, hit by harder economic times and the high cost of
living, may not be encouraging other family members to come for the time being.
"They have to take care of them when they get here," Manning said. "An
unemployed Salvadoran is not able to support two families."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, CAUGHT AT THE BORDER. (DATA FROM CHART WAS UNAVAILABLE), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              105 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 7, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Va. Man Charged With Arranging Sale of Work Permits

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B3

LENGTH: 590 words


An Alexandria man has been charged with arranging the sale of work permits to
illegal immigrants at the Arlington office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the latest accusation to stem from a 10-month federal probe of the
regional facility.

Fady K. Joubran is charged with directing immigrants who paid him $ 4,000 to INS
employees who provided the immigrants with work authorization papers, with no
questions asked.

Joubran's arrest last week brought to seven the number of people who have been
charged in the investigation by the Justice Department's Inspector General's
Office into alleged bribe-taking and other illegal practices at the regional INS
office. Four of the seven who have been arrested are current or former INS
employees.

A spokesman for the INS, which has no role in the investigation, said he was
unaware of Joubran's arrest and would not comment further. An official with the
Inspector General's Office said he could not comment on an ongoing
investigation.

Joubran is president of HYE Offices in Falls Church, a firm that advertises its
services dealing with immigration matters and caters primarily to Middle Eastern
immigrants. Joubran, who is free on a $ 50,000 personal recognizance bond, could
not be reached for comment yesterday.

According to an affidavit filed in federal court in Alexandria, at least five
people, including one person who worked with Joubran, are cooperating with
federal investigators and have provided similar accounts of an operation in
which INS employees provided work authorization to clients of Joubran in at
least a half-dozen instances.

Typically, according to the court document, the work permits were registered to
other people.

The operation described in court documents is similar to one that federal
investigators said led to the July 8 arrest of four women who are current or
former INS employees.

In a 45-count indictment against the women, prosecutors alleged that during a
14-month period beginning in November 1991, the women conspired with another
visa consultant to issue work authorization permits in exchange for bribes of $
100 a card. One women is alleged to have received more than $ 32,000 in bribes.
The women have pleaded not guilty.

Sources familiar with the investigation said that although Joubran's alleged
operation was similar to the one allegedly used by the women, the two cases are
not related.

Work permit-fraud cases in recent years have almost exclusively involved Latin
Americans, but the latest charges indicate that the Arlington probe has moved
beyond that. Court documents allege that Joubran's operation catered to Muslims
from the Middle East and India.

Several of the witnesses whose statements are included in the affidavit against
Joubran said they came from as far away as New Jersey to get work permits.

Two of the cooperating witnesses told investigators they came to Arlington from
Jersey City with three other men. The men said they met Joubran outside the INS
offices at 4420 North Fairfax Dr. They said Joubran led them inside and to the
fifth floor, where INS employees gave them the documents without asking any
questions, according to a court document.

When one of the men questioned the INS employee about what he was signing, "the
INS employee told [him] to sign the document and not create a problem," the
court document said.

Another witness told investigators that he received $ 300 for each client he
sent to Joubran with fraudulently prepared immigration applications, the
affidavit said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              106 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 25, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Higher Pay For Low-Wage Earners? Get tough with illegal immigration.

Robert M. Dunn Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 883 words


The United States in general, and the Democratic Party in particular, face a
direct conflict between two historic goals: increasing real incomes for
working-class Americans and the maintenance of a relatively open and
compassionate immigration policy. Real incomes of low-wage American workers have
been falling for almost two decades, and there is strong reason to suspect that
the arrival of large numbers of unskilled people from abroad, many of whom are
illegal immigrants, has been an important reason for that decline. It is
unlikely that real wages of U.S. unskilled and semi-skilled workers will recover
unless the flow of undocumented workers into the country is sharply reduced.

Despite debates over magnitudes, the evidence is now overwhelming that real
wages for U.S. non-supervisory production workers have declined in recent years.
U.S. government data show that such hourly wages rose steadily from World War II
to a peak in 1973 and then declined by about 13 percent by 1991. Real weekly
wages of U.S. production workers fell by about 19 percent, the difference
representing the growing role of part-time workers. This decline occurred during
the Ford, Carter, Reagan and Bush administrations, so it is the result of basic
trends in the economy rather than the policies of a particular president.

During the same 1973-1991 period, average real per capita disposable income in
the United States rose by 27 percent. If real per capita incomes rose by more
than a quarter in a period during which low-wage Americans saw their real weekly
wages fall by about one-fifth, the distribution of U.S. incomes must have become
far more unequal.

U.S. government data show that the real incomes of families in the bottom fifth
of the population rose steadily from the 1930s until the early 1970s, were
relatively constant until 1978 and then fell by about 15 percent to a trough in
1984. A modest recovery in the next five years still left such incomes about 8
percent below the 1970s peak in 1989. A Department of Commerce study indicates
that the share of total incomes received by the top fifth of U.S. families
increased sharply between 1970 and 1990, while the shares going to the bottom
groups declined.

There are a number of causes of this decline in real incomes of less-skilled
U.S. workers, including rapid growth of imports of labor-intensive manufactured
goods from low-wage developing countries, which has helped to reduce
manufacturing jobs from 31 percent of U.S. employment in 1960 to only 16 percent
in 1991. In addition, U.S. labor demand has shifted toward higher professional
skill categories, which tends to reduce the relative incomes of
less-well-educated Americans. Undocumented immigration, however, may be a larger
factor.

There is no way to know how many illegal immigrants are here, but when such
people were offered an opportunity to regularize their status a few years ago,
2.3 million people from Mexico alone tried to do so. Press reports suggest that
Southern California is particularly inundated, and it is obvious that an
increasing share of construction and restaurant jobs in Washington are held by
recent arrivals from Latin America and the Caribbean.

If the United States faces an unlimited supply of labor from the south at a wage
of about $ 5 per hour, incomes of less-skilled Americans will not increase even
if economic growth in this country accelerates. If real wages of poorer
Americans are to increase and the inequality of incomes is to be reduced, there
must be some restriction on the foreign supply of low-wage labor, and that means
both stricter immigration policies and tougher enforcement measures.

Immigration of high-skill, professional and technical labor has an effect on the
distribution of income that is the opposite of the immigration of unskilled
people. Adding to the supply of highly educated labor reduces incomes of
high-income Americans and makes the distribution of income more equal. It is not
a pleasant conclusion, but it is inescapable. If Washington wants to increase
incomes of low-wage Americans and reduce the growing inequality of U.S. incomes,
it must severely restrict the inflow of unskilled workers from abroad and
allocate the available immigration quotas to highly educated foreigners.

When supply-siders and other "free market" economists argue for open immigration
policies, it ought to be remembered that they usually reflect the views of
owners of businesses, who benefit from the abundance of low-wage labor that
immigrants provide.

It is Bill Clinton and the Democratic Party who face a nasty conflict over this
issue. Low-wage Americans are part of the core constituency of the Democrats,
and such people would clearly gain from policies that restrict the immigration
of unskilled people from Latin America and the Caribbean. But the Democrats also
represent black and Latin voters who have personal and political reasons to
oppose policies that would restrict entry of more black and Spanish-speaking
people. Clinton has begun to face this issue, saying that our "first obligation"
is "to ensure that immigration laws do not displace American workers." But it is
going to be a tough issue for Democrats.


The writer is a professor of economics at the George Washington University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              107 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 16, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

INS Workers Convicted in Bribery Case

From news services and staff reports

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C5; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 144 words


Three employees of the Arlington regional office of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service were convicted yesterday of accepting bribes and
conspiring to defraud the government by selling work permits to illegal
immigrants, the U.S. attorney's office said.

The three worked as application clerks in the examination section of the INS,
according to court papers. They were convicted after a three-day trial in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria of selling the work authorization permits for $ 100
apiece, according to a news release from the U.S. attorney's office.

Shebra Johnson, 22, of Washington, was convicted of accepting $ 15,000 in
bribes. Saundra Thomas, 26, of Arlington, was convicted of accepting $ 2,500 in
bribes. And Sonia Wilkerson, 22, of Landover, was convicted of accepting $ 300
in bribes. Sentencing is scheduled for Dec. 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              108 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 1, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Addenda

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 196 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service said an analysis of fiscal 1992
statistics on drug seizures, illegal alien deaths and assaults on U.S. Border
Patrol officers indicate that the agency has begun to "regain control" of the
U.S.-Mexican border, mainly through improving border security in the San Diego
area.

Jail inmates awaiting deportation rioted for three hours Friday, smashing
windows, television sets and furniture, before police used stun grenades and
pepper gas to quell the disturbance. There were no serious injuries during the
uprising at the INS detention facility in Aurora, Colo.

A jury has cleared Dallas of negligence in a case where two police officers,
called to investigate screams coming from a woman's apartment, left nine minutes
after arriving without knocking on her door or trying to contact her. Shirley
Gremminger, 50, was found dead 12 hours later, and her daughters sued the city
over the 1985 incident. Gremminger's killer has not been found.

The 1992 smog season in Southern California ended as one of the cleanest on
record, continuing a decade-long trend of slow-but-steady improvement of the
nation's most polluted air.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              109 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 28, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Immigrants Freed

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 146 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A young Chinese woman, kidnapped by gang members and held as their sex slave,
escaped and led police to a Brooklyn hideout where they freed eight other
smuggled immigrants, police said.

Six people alleged to be members of the Fuk Ching gang were arrested and charged
with rape, unlawful imprisonment, assault and robbery.

The 21-year-old woman, who told investigators that she flew to John F. Kennedy
Airport three weeks ago from South America using a fake passport, escaped by
jumping out a first-floor window after one of the suspects fell asleep, police
said Saturday.

The Fuk Ching gang is believed to have been involved in the case of the Golden
Venture, a ship carrying immigrants that ran aground off New York earlier this
month; authorities said it dominates the illegal Chinese alien-smuggling
business and charges up to $ 30,000 per person for passage.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              110 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 18, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

Migrant Ships Elude Coast Guard;
Search Near Hawaii Targets Vessels Thought to Carry Chinese

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: HONOLULU, July 17, 1993


The Coast Guard was searching the Pacific Ocean around Hawaii today for several
ships suspected of carrying Chinese migrants originally bound for illegal entry
into the United States.

The vessels, which earlier this week had been pinpointed by radar, have since
eluded searchers, and Coast Guard officials said today they no longer know the
course or speed of the ships.

"We're trying to find them. We're trying to locate these vessels and see what
they are. We don't know where they are," said Ed Moreth, spokesman for the Coast
Guard's 14th District.

Moreth declined to answer questions about what kind of aerial or surface
surveillance was being conducted, saying, "We don't discuss any information
about law enforcement assets."

Coast Guard officials in Washington said they were still attempting to determine
the exact number and the destinations of the ships and under which flags they
are operating. The ships are suspected of being used to smuggle migrants from
China in a growing crime syndicate operation in the trafficking of human cargo
to the United States.

Cmdr. Marc Wolfson, chief spokesman for the Coast Guard in Washington, estimated
on Friday that if the ships continued the speed and course known at that time,
they could enter U.S. territorial waters off Hawaii today or Sunday. Today,
Wolfson said the area under surveillance is so vast that the vessels could avoid
detection for days more.

"These kind of ships ply the ocean all the time. We don't know how much fuel
they have on board. They could change course at any time," Wolfson said.

Coast Guard officials here and in Washington declined to discuss whether the
vessels were part of a group of four ships carrying an estimated 750 Chinese
that were sighted off the Pacific coast of northern Mexico on July 6 when the
Coast Guard boarded and detained three other ships carrying more than 650
Chinese migrants.

After a week of occasionally tense diplomatic exchanges with Washington, the
Mexican government on Wednesday agreed to allow the three detained vessels to
dock in Mexico only long enough for the passengers to be screened and
repatriated to China.

Mexican authorities had said at least four additional ships with Chinese
passengers "disappeared" before U.S. Coast Guard cutters could intercept and
board them also.

If the ships manage to elude the Coast Guard in international waters and enter
the U.S. territorial limits, the Chinese passengers could thwart a toughened
U.S. campaign to stem trafficking in illegal migrants. U.S. officials have
sought to avoid allowing undocumented aliens into American territory, where they
can apply for political asylum and remain through protracted legal proceedings.

Coast Guard officials said an interagency group has set up an operational
headquarters here to coordinate the search and determine what steps will be
taken if they are found. The group, which includes officials of the State
Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Coast Guard and the
Justice Department, was expected to meet today to be briefed on the search
effort.

Since 1991, federal authorities have intercepted at least five ships that were
attempting to smuggle about 1,000 undocumented aliens from China to Hawaii. They
included the East Wood, a Panamanian-registered freighter carrying 524 Chinese
that was intercepted 1,500 miles southeast of Hawaii in late January. After
being detained by U.S. authorities in the Marshall Islands for three weeks, all
of the passengers were forcibly repatriated to China.

In February 1991, about 90 Chinese migrants jumped off a ship in Honolulu Harbor
and ran into the downtown area before being tracked down by immigration
authorities.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, BRAD WYE

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              111 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 24, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

The Baird Nomination

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 584 words


ZOE BAIRD'S congressional testimony in explanation of her hiring of two illegal
aliens to work in her household and her failure to pay Social Security and other
taxes in their behalf added nothing to extenuate what she did. In fact, in
certain respects, what came out in the elaboration made it worse. She and the
new Clinton administration were right to withdraw her nomination to be attorney
general.

Neither the Clinton transition team nor the Senate leadership had been
completely blindsided here. All had been advised -- although the extent of
disclosure is still at issue -- that there was at least a potential problem
concerning Ms. Baird's employees. But curiously, none of those informed seemed
to take the offense seriously. The immigration and tax violations were brushed
off as "technical" matters that did not reflect on the nominee's integrity or
ability to discharge the duties of the chief law enforcement officer in the
nation.

Other Americans knew better, and not just those who, in two-career professional
families, seek child care. Farmers, small business owners and plenty of others
are obliged to comply with the laws Ms. Baird and her husband, a constitutional
law professor at Yale, broke. Unsurprisingly, such people did not take well to
the implication that a wealthy and successful couple didn't feel bound to do so.
Checking documents, filling out forms and paying taxes that amount to about 20
percent of salary is the requirement. Some evade, but most accept the
responsibility, and they should. These laws protect low-wage legal workers from
underground competition and provide security for them in sickness, old age and
unemployment. Compliance is more than a matter of law, it is a component of
social justice.

Along with others, when the news first broke we said the offense was serious
enough to be disqualifying, but that in fairness it was necessary to give Ms.
Baird a chance to explain her actions at the hearing if she could. As we say,
what came out at the hearing did not improve her case, but actually worsened it.
She said nothing that altered or mitigated the fact that having broken these
laws, she could not have led the department charged with enforcing them.

Zoe Baird is an extremely accomplished lawyer who will continue to flourish, at
least for now, in the private sector. And having confessed error and paid
penalties, she will survive. But her error was disqualifying. The sad part is
that before all this was known, she was emerging on other grounds as one of the
strongest and most impressive of Bill Clinton's nominees. But she turned out not
to be the person to lead the Justice Department, especially at a time when
leadership of unquestioned integrity is needed.

There is an enormous pool of talented lawyers in this country of every race and
both genders. The narrowing of the choices of a prospective nominee to any one
of these is offensive and wrong. The whole purpose of the monumental civil
rights effort undertaken with such pain and so much success in this country over
the past several decades was to guarantee that no one would be excluded on the
basis of race or gender, that an appointing official in a situation such as this
one would consider not just the narrow band of persons that previously was
favored, but all who were fit irrespective of race and gender -- a much broader,
fairer range. That is what President Clinton should do. He should widen his
focus and take enough time in choosing another nominee.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              112 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                       May 3, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

What's in NAFTA for Us

Susan Kaufman Purcell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 781 words


Thereis a popular misconception that the proposed North American free trade
agreement is mainly about free trade. What it really involves is the protection
of the interests and national security of the United States.

Critics of the agreement argue that it makes no sense for the United States, the
richest country in the world, to sign an agreement with Mexico, a developing
country. They claim that Mexico's considerably lower wage scale and relatively
lax enforcement of labor and environmental laws will give its companies a
comparative advantage over U.S. firms. Their conclusion: The agreement will
force U.S. companies to move south of the border to remain competitive.

Opponents also fear that free trade between the United States and Mexico will
exacerbate three other current threats from Mexico: illegal immigration, drug
trafficking and pollution along the 2,000-mile shared border. They reason that
the freer flow of goods and services between the two countries will make it
easier for unwanted people and drugs to enter the United States, while the
increase in U.S. companies setting up shop on the Mexican side of the Rio Grande
will lead to ever higher levels of contamination along the border.

They could not be more wrong. It is precisely because of these problems
emanating from Mexico that the free trade agreement makes sense for the United
States. The best way to protect U.S. interests against a continued inflow of
undocumented workers, illegal drugs and spreading border pollution is to help
Mexico develop economically. A prosperous Mexico will pose as little threat to
the United States and be as good and congenial a neighbor as Canada is now.

The proposed free trade agreement will encourage Mexico's continued economic
development in a number of ways. It will persuade potential investors that
Mexico's recent economic reforms will be difficult if not impossible to reverse,
thereby encouraging them to continue investing their capital in Mexico, an
absolute necessity if Mexico is ever to join the club of industrialized nations.
As the Mexican economy grows, wage levels in Mexico will rise. The European
integration experience shows that once wages in the poorest countries reach 40
percent of those in the richest, illegal immigration dramatically tapers off.
U.S. jobs are far more threatened by the entry of hundreds of thousands of
undocumented Mexican workers to the United States than by the movement of U.S.
companies to Mexico. U.S. workers therefore stand to gain far more from the
NAFTA than they will lose.

The free trade agreement would also help solve the pollution problem. Studies
show that the relationship between industrialization and environmental
degradation resembles a bell curve. Pollution is greatest in the earliest phases
of industrialization but begins to level off and then decrease as more wealth is
available for controlling pollution. As one of the wealthier developing
countries, Mexico is almost at the point where it will be able to begin devoting
more resources to environmental cleanup. The free trade agreement will help get
it there faster.

Finally, we know from our own experience that drug traffickers thrive when
poverty and hopelessness are widespread. As more Mexicans are able to earn a
decent living legally, and as Mexico has more money to spend on drug
enforcement, the entry of illegal drugs from Mexico will decrease. The free
trade agreement will therefore reduce, not increase, the flow of illegal drugs
from Mexico into the United States.

Although the proposed North American free trade agreement is a win-win
proposition for both the United States and Mexico, there will obviously be
losers on both sides of the border, since not all companies or workers will be
able to adjust to the larger and more competitive market. It is only fair that
the governments of both countries devise policies for socializing the costs of
the agreement. Washington should therefore proceed with plans to improve the
education and vocational training of all Americans who wish to upgrade their
skills in order to find employment in a U.S. economy that will increasingly have
fewer jobs for illiterate or untrained workers. The problem has its origin,
however, not in the NAFTA, but in the increasing globalization of the world
economy.

It is time to reorient the debate over NAFTA to focus on its potential impact on
the U.S.-Mexican relationship in all its complexity. Only then will the logic of
a free trade agreement between a rich, industrialized country and its poorer,
developing neighbor begin to make sense.

The writer is vice president of the Americas Society, a nonprofit institution.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              113 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 4, 1993, Friday, Capital Edition

Chinese Emigration

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22; AROUND THE WORLD

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


China said it is working to stem the flow of illegal Chinese immigrants to the
United States, but added that Washington should stop offering political asylum
as bait.

Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin, speaking a day after U.S. authorities
arrested 270 Chinese trying to sneak into California by trawler, said Beijing
needs international cooperation to stem the human tide.

Wu said Beijing is acting to tighten security on its borders and has
"intensified" its efforts to check the documents of Chinese citizens leaving the
country. He said China is stepping up patrols of coastal areas, where most of
the illegal immigrants begin their journeys to the United States packed into
trawlers and tramp freighters.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              114 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 4, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Harvest of Blame;
Californians Turn on Illegal Immigrants

William Hamilton, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1701 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif.


Driving around this Orange County seat where they have lived for 20 years is an
upsetting experience for Ron and Pat Heike.

From the neighborhood park that they no longer feel comfortable using on
weekends to the dry cleaner's parking lot where drug dealers do brisk morning
business to the old downtown, where, in Ron Heike's words, "you won't see any
Anglos," they encounter tableaux that illustrate how the city has changed.

The source of the problem as far as they are concerned is obvious: the flow of
illegal immigrants from Mexico that has helped to make Santa Ana by some
accounts the nation's most Latino city other than El Paso. But they are not so
sure about the solution.

"We can stop them," said Heike, although he does not sound as if he believes it.
"I think we can take the military and do it with the military."

In Santa Ana, a city of 310,000, 70 percent of the population is Latino, and
between 30,000 and 60,000 of them are in the country illegally. The influx of
immigrants, legal and illegal, has led to acrimonious debates about overcrowded
schools and apartment buildings and turned disputes on such issues as regulation
of street vendors or creation of job centers for day laborers into emotional
ethnic conflicts.

Increasing resentment by such middle-class whites as the Heikes underlies the
struggle and has made illegal immigration a powerful political issue in Santa
Ana and Orange County, the sprawling suburban area southeast of Los Angeles that
was synonymous with Disneyland and conservative politics and has become 23
percent Hispanic.

Similar conflicts are being fought in San Diego, Los Angeles and throughout
California as the nation's most populous state struggles simultaneously with a
faltering economy and rapidly changing demographics.

The most visible impact has been in Sacramento, where the Legislature has been
debating legislation aimed at restricting illegal immigration by using the
National Guard to patrol the border, as Ron Heike would, banning illegal
immigrants from state colleges and universities and other measures. But
politicians at every level -- ranging from Gov. Pete Wilson (R) and Sen. Dianne
Feinstein (D) to candidates for mayor of Los Angeles and other local offices --
are responding to calls that something be done.

At its simplest, the message sounded by Citizens for Responsible Immigration and
other grass-roots groups that have organized around the issue is this: Illegal,
or undocumented, immigrants are too great a burden on an economically pressed
state and should be prevented from entering this country by closing the Mexican
border or eliminating inducements for them to stay.

To Latino activists, the careful distinction that such groups make between
illegal and legal immigrants is disingenuous. Because the two often are hard to
distinguish, activists see the campaign to curb illegal immigration as an attack
on all immigrants and implicitly on the multiethnic society that California has
become.

They also see parallels with nativist eras in the state's history when the
response to tough times was to blame the immigrant. In the 19th century, for
example, the Workingmen's Party of California organized around the slogan "The
Chinese Must Go," and during the Depression hundreds of thousands of Mexicans
were deported.

Since illegals are so powerless, said Adela de la Torre, chairman of the Chicano
and Latino Studies Department at California State University at Long Beach,
"they are the most perfect scapegoats in the world, immigrants in general but
illegal immigrants in particular."

With the white population declining in relative size and influence to the point
where demographers predict that early next century it will be a minority in
California, de la Torre predicted that immigration will remain a flashpoint in
the state. "It's going to be a recurrent issue," she said. "It's not something
that's going to end."

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), an Orange County conservative who is one of
the state's most outspoken opponents of illegal immigration, said immigration is
becoming "a decisive political issue in California."

"People in California are feeling under attack and overrun, and a lot of people
feel cheated," he said. "They feel as if they're paying for services and an
educational system and . . . all of a sudden, they look around and the people
who've come here illegally and been here for a few months are siphoning
thousands of dollars out of that system."

When Rohrabacher read articles several months ago about an illegal Salvadoran
immigrant who was dying of leukemia in a local hospital and whose mother was
trying to visit him from El Salvador, he saw a larger issue: free medical care
for an illegal alien.

"If it wasn't for me," he said, "the public wouldn't have known this man was the
recipient of hundreds of thousands of dollars in tax-paid medical care. If this
guy had come from El Salvador and robbed a liquor store, people would have been
outraged. Instead, he took hundreds of thousands from a system he never
contributed to."

Whether illegals pose an overall burden to the state is at the heart of the
California debate, and any studies seeking to answer that question become
embroiled in controversy.

By law, undocumented immigrants are ineligible for almost all public benefits
other than emergency medical care under Medicaid, or Medi-cal as it is called in
California, and some prenatal care. But groups such as the Federation for
American Immigration Reform (FAIR) say costs to the criminal justice system and
public schools must be considered. They cite a study for the state last year
estimating that the net cost of illegal immigrants to San Diego County alone is
nearly $ 150 million a year and to the rest of the state about $ 3 billion.

"This is becoming a routine game," said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the
Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California at San Diego and
a critic of the report. "It's justified frequently as being a weapon in the
continuing battle with Washington to get reimbursement for service costs."

Social services also figure prominently in the debate because advocates of
strong measures against illegal immigration argue that they are an inducement
for people to leave their homes. Reduce those incentives, they say, and fewer
will come to or stay in California.

"You'll never stop" illegal immigration, said Alan C. Nelson, a former
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and now a FAIR
lobbyist in Sacramento. "But you can reduce it dramatically, I'm convinced, and
it all boils down to demagnetizing it."

"Demagnetizing" is the rationale behind the 22 bills that have been introduced
in Sacramento and that Latino groups have identified as "anti-immigrant." Among
other things, they would require school districts to report undocumented
students to the INS, limit the amount a mother could receive for children under
Aid to Families with Dependent Children and require proof of citizenship to
obtain a driver's license.

Assemblyman Richard Polanco (D-Los Angeles), chairman of the Latino Caucus,
predicted that none of the bills would pass and said their main purpose is
putting legislators on record for the next election and "fanning the flames of
immigrant-bashing feelings."

Polanco and experts such as Cornelius said the bills suggest a fundamental
misunderstanding of immigrants and their behavior.

"The primary motivation," Cornelius said, "is economic -- job-seeking -- and
family reunification. Both of those motivations are unrelated to the level of
public services to which they may or may not have access here."

Nonetheless, Nancy Thomson, coordinator of Citizens for Responsible Immigration,
of nearby Orange, said cities such as Santa Ana are "the enablers" that make it
attractive for illegal immigrants to stay.

"I would like the city to say, 'No, we don't welcome illegal aliens,' " she
said. But she said city policies such as prohibiting police from helping to
enforce immigration laws have led to what she calls Santa Ana's downfall.

The city did try, however, to reduce overcrowded housing, a move that proponents
argued was necessary to prevent crime and neighborhood deterioration and that
opponents said discriminated against immigrants with large numbers of children
or families forced to double up.

Under the state housing code, 15 people can live in a two-bedroom unit and 26 in
a three-bedroom unit. In 1991, the Santa Ana City Council voted to reduce the
numbers to seven and 12. The ordinance, copied by other towns and cities in
Orange County, was challenged immediately on grounds that it was discriminatory.
Last year, a state appeals court struck it down.

The Heikes were outraged by the decision. Driving through an affluent north-end
neigborhood recently, they pointed out a house they said is rented to eight
Latino families.

"On a weekend," Pat Heike said, "there are probably 10 or 12 cars parked in
front of the house. And they change the oil in the gutter, and it just runs down
the street."

Ron Heike, a sales manager who heads a group called SAMSON (Santa Ana Merged
Society of Neighbors), said, "We have to stop that kind of stuff. How we do it,
we are not certain yet. More intrusions like that, and this neighborhood is
going to go."

Nativo Lopez, co-director of Hermandad Mexicana Nacional, an immigrants rights
group that challenged the anti-overcrowding ordinance, has little patience for
such talk.

"I'm glad they're concerned about the deterioration of our neighborhoods," Lopez
said. "You would think they would be the strongest advocates for more affordable
housing, for better quality services. But in fact, they are not. In fact, they
have been on the side of the argument for expelling [immigrants] from the city."

Efforts to limit immigration, Lopez said, are exercises in hypocrisy in a state
and a country where people depend on immigrant labor, legal and illegal.

"They want them to be cutting their lawns, they want them as maids, to pick
their strawberries," he said. "But they don't want them in their neighborhoods.
They don't want to see them. They can't have it both ways."


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, RON HEIKE, ABOVE, HEADS SAMSON, A NEIGHBORHOOD GROUP THAT BACKED
A SANTA ANA ORDINANCE WHICH WOULD HAVE REDUCED THE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS ALLOWED
IN A HOME. NATIVO LOPEZ, PHOTO LEFT, DIRECTS A GROUP OPPOSED TO SUCH
RESTRICTIONS. PAUL KURODA FOR TWP; MAP, BRAD WYE

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              115 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 19, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Mexican Navy Seizes Third Migrant Ship;
Smuggling of Chinese Said to Be Growing

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1134 words

DATELINE: ENSENADA, Mexico, July 18, 1993


The Mexican navy today seized the last of three ships carrying a total of 650
Chinese illegal migrants that had been detained off Mexico's Pacific coast, and
the passengers were immediately deported.

Mexican Interior Ministry spokesman Jorge Medina warned that the Chinese
smuggling problem in the Pacific appears to be getting worse. He said that
another ship has been detected off the coast of Mexico and five others have
appeared near Panama, in addition to as many as nine believed to be in the
vicinity of Hawaii. The ships that were reported to be moving toward Hawaii on
Friday, however, continued to go undetected today, and U.S. officials said they
had no new information on their whereabouts.

A senior Mexican official said that there are now more than 50 Chinese vessels
in the Pacific carrying migrants, but U.S. officials cautioned against such
estimates and said solid information is scarce.

One Clinton administration official said "several dozen ships, a number of which
are still in port, have been identified as having some indication of suspicious
activity in trafficking Chinese migrants," Washington Post staff writer William
Claiborne reported from Hawaii. But, the official added, "it is very difficult
to attach any numbers to this phenomenon, and many of the reports we get are
unconfirmed and can't be confirmed."

So far this year, the United States and Mexico have captured roughly 1,500
Chinese smuggled across the Pacific aboard dilapidated ships. Almost all the
voyages originated in China's Fujian province.

Claiborne reported that the ships believed to be in the Hawaii area may have
changed course to avoid entering U.S. territorial waters. Coast Guard Cmdr. Marc
Wolfson said that the vessels' position could also be affected by a hurricane
moving in the direction of the Hawaiian Islands from the Mexican coast.

Hurricane Dora, Wolfson said, was 1,200 nautical miles east of Hawaii, carrying
wind gusts up to 80 mph. "The vast expanses of the ocean and the uncertainty of
the weather are certainly factors involved in this operation," Wolfson said. He
said that while Dora is not a threat to the Hawaiian Islands, it could affect
both the course of the vessels and the search effort.

In addition, Wolfson said, intelligence has shown that other ships used in the
trafficking of Chinese migrants have large fuel capacities and are able to
travel great distances for weeks without refueling. If that is the case with the
ships now being sought, he said, they could easily change course for another
destination or separate and follow different courses, further complicating the
search effort.

In Mexico, the Chinese ship Sing Li, which had remained in international waters
after two other smuggling vessels were seized by the Mexican navy in the
country's territorial waters, was finally towed into port at dawn today after
its occupants resolved an apparent dispute over whether to surrender.

Authorities immediately loaded the 240 persons aboard the ship onto buses for
repatriation through the airport at Tijuana, 60 miles north of here. In all,
Mexico deported about 300 Chinese today aboard a jumbo jet bound for Xiamen,
China, following two deportation flights that carried about 300 other illegal
migrants out of Mexico on Saturday.

Officials said that disputes among passengers aboard the Sing Li contributed to
delays in bringing it into port after it had been detained at sea for 10 days
along with the other two ships. Medina said 19 people aboard the ship were
handcuffed immediately after the vessel entered Mexican waters because
authorities feared they might incite violence if left unrestrained.

Of the original 650 who had spent an estimated three months at sea aboard the
three rusty, squalid vessels, only about 70 remain in detention here. One of
them, identified as businessman Jung Cheng, was hospitalized Saturday night,
apparently with appendicitis, but Medina said Jung would be deported early
Monday along with the other remaining migrants.

More than 30 crew members from the three ships have been arrested here and will
face prosecution for illegal trafficking in human beings, Medina said.

Authorities again prevented reporters and photographers from getting near the
migrants. Those who departed aboard buses today showed no emotion as they passed
journalists at the entrance to the port, but some held up their hands to reveal
plastic straps that had been used to handcuff them.

Photographs taken of the migrants aboard the ships and made available by a
government source do not demonstrate the misery the migrants are said to have
been subject to on their long illegal journey.

Most of the passengers appeared to be well dressed in clean, ironed clothing.
Some men were wearing wristwatches, Reebok tennis shoes, slacks and suit
jackets, while women wore floral-print outfits, lipstick and fingernail polish.

Various sources said the migrants, who are believed to have made down payments
of $ 5,000 to $ 10,000 to an international smuggling ring for the opportunity to
try to sneak into the United States, appeared to have been coached on what to
say if questioned by U.S. or Mexican immigration officials during their journey.

They appear to have been told that they could qualify for political asylum in
the United States if they claimed they were fleeing China to escape a
population-reduction law that limits all Chinese families to just one child.

An official who talked to the migrants said several made reference to the
Chinese law when being interviewed. "A 19-year-old man came at me pleading,"
said the official. "He spoke just a little English and said, 'My mother already
has another child, so I must leave China.' "

The official said it appeared that in addition to the payments for the trip to
North America the migrants had to agree to work off an additional, unspecified
debt once they reached the United States. He said that a "Chinese Mafia" in the
United States appeared to be working with the China-based smuggling ring and
that the migrants themselves were expected to carry out illicit activities as
part of their work to pay off the debt.

"They aren't going there to study chemistry," the official said of the migrants.

A source provided a list of seven U.S. telephone numbers and a New York address
that were taken from some of the Chinese aboard the ships. A man who spoke
little English answered at a number with a San Diego area code and said he had
no knowledge of anyone aboard the ships seized in Mexico. However, he said he
was aware of someone aboard a ship heading for Panama.

At another number, that of a Chinese restaurant in New York state, a man who
answered said he knew nothing of any Chinese migrants who were told to call him
and knew no one from Fujian province.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHINESE MIGRANT WAS TAKEN FROM THE LONG SEN, ONE OF THREE BOATS
SEIZED BY MEXICAN NAVY, BEFORE DAWN SATURDAY. MEXICAN GOVERMENT PHOTO; PHOTO, AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              116 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 19, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

NAFTA: It's About Jobs ...

George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A29

LENGTH: 878 words


ON INTERSTATE 5, NORTH OF SAN DIEGO -- If you blink you may miss them. Don't
blink. They are signs of the time.

They are large yellow signs of the sort that use black silhouettes -- of falling
rocks, leaping deer, playing children -- to warn motorists. But the silhouettes
on these signs are of a running family -- a father, mother and small daughter.
They represent illegal immigrants who risk, and sometimes lose, their lives,
sprinting through the stream of speeding vehicles to evade a government
checkpoint.

Here, where the surf rumbles a few hundred yards from the traffic's roar, where
the Republic runs out of room and the horizon reminds Americans of Asian nations
exporting economic challenges and challenging immigrants, here two of the
nation's political preoccupations fuse: immigration and the North American Free
Trade Agreement.

From the moment in the 18th century when national consciousness began emerging
on the thinly settled eastern fringe of this continent, the animating question
of American politics has been: What kind of people do we want to be? Uniquely
blessed by the burden of choice -- the French, for example, do not share our
sense of perpetual becoming -- we now face, with immigration and NAFTA, choices
that will shape who we are.

In Sacramento and Washington, legislative hoppers are piled high with proposals,
from national identity cards and increased border patrols to diminished
entitlements for immigrants, to slow the flow of foreigners. Some are sound;
almost all deserve debate and will get it, evidence that anxiety about
immigration is now discussable, rather than dismissible as xenophobic
primitivism. But all such proposals pale in significance when compared with
NAFTA.

What impels immigrants to risk everything crossing the freeway -- or the ocean
it borders? The hope of betterment -- in a word, jobs. Most immigrants would
prefer to pursue a productive future at home. NAFTA will help potential
immigrants to prosper at home -- if NAFTA can be rescued from current
irrationalities of American politics.

Pat Buchanan Republicans, a small but gingery group, oppose both immigration and
NAFTA, an incoherence matched within the Democratic Party. Many Democrats are
queasy about acknowledging the principal incentive for immigrants -- the
availability of entry-level jobs in America -- because many black leaders blame
the disorderly lives of the inner-city underclass on the supposed unavailability
of such jobs. Furthermore, freer trade means, as freedom generally does, an
uncertain future, and so is threatening to the timid, including some Democratic
constituencies, such as organized labor.

Fear (Buchananites are timid nationalists -- a phenomenon once considered a
contradiction in terms) touches the immigration issue at every turn. Does
immigration increase crime? Perhaps. But would denying, say, educational
entitlements to the children of illegal immigrants serve domestic tranquillity?

Because governments are objects of interests and conduits of passions, such as
fear, much that governments do is mistaken. But most mistakes -- spending here,
taxing there -- are correctable. However, if this moment for liberalized trade
through NAFTA is missed, there will be a spate of surrenders by the government
-- in the name of "compassion" -- to timid interests demanding protection. And
if immigration law is changed in a manner that codifies fear and hostility,
America's identity will be altered.

Protection, candidate Clinton said, is just a fancy word for giving up. Giving
up, that is, the nation's characteristic stance of confidence about competition
and a fast unfolding future. And if immigration reform takes the form of a
fearful flinching from infusions of ambitious and industrious newcomers, America
will have gone far toward redefining itself as whiny and embattled.

The idea that most immigrants are drawn here, like iron fragments to a magnet,
by welfare entitlements misses a huge and heartening truth. What was once called
"the Protestant ethic" -- faith manifested in social advancement through
individual striving -- is coming in quantity from Catholic countries to the
south.

Richard Rodriguez, an American writer of Mexican parentage, says that Tijuana,
comparable in size to its neighbor, San Diego, is, in a sense, more American
than San Diego. He means that Tijuana is rawer, less middle-aged, more as
America used to be in its youthful boisterousness.

But America is more than an economy, more than an arena for individual striving
for material betterment. It also -- it primarily -- is a culture and a fabric of
civic traditions. Singapore booms, but it is not "American."

In the flood tide of 19th century American confidence, Walt Whitman proclaimed
that America was more than a nation, it was a world. The justifiable concern
about today's immigration is that America may be becoming less than a nation, a
community lacking a clear cultural definition, a mere geographic expression.

Still, remember the reality represented by the silhouettes on the yellow signs.
There is something unseemly about an America that is frightened by families
sprinting across the freeway to get to work. Such an America has much more to
worry about than those families.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              117 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 28, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

In a Strange Land;
Son Could Not Live His Mother's Dream

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1783 words


Francisco Sanchez Amador's underground odyssey from Nicaragua to Rockville had
left him motherless and destitute, without so much as a passport to prove who he
was or where he came from, and his three shadowy months as an undocumented
resident had yielded almost nothing.

As the 18-year-old prepared recently to return to the life he fled more than a
year ago, the short inventory of his possessions showed how little he had
accomplished. His sole purchases were some socks and a few pairs of underwear.
The clothes on his back and the contents of his two duffel bags -- secondhand
shirts and pants -- had been donated by the Nicaraguan Catholic Community, a
church group that had taken him in and was now sending him off.

Even his new passport, issued this month by the Nicaraguan government on
oversized white paper, was good for only 30 days, a sign of how fleeting this
hard-won security was. As if to drive the deprivations home, a letter of
introduction Sanchez carried with him, addressed to a priest in Nicaragua, asks
for guidance and flatly describes his predicament: "He is returning as poor as
he was when he arrived in Washington."

In fact, when Sanchez left from National Airport Oct. 15, he was considerably
poorer than when he and his mother first had ventured north in 1992, a testament
to the dangers of a road trip embarked upon by thousands of people every year.
The force behind his journey had been his 50-year-old mother, a domestic worker
with eight children, who drowned somewhere in Central America on her third
attempt to leave with her son.

Sanchez's decision to press on to Rockville alone and then give up the struggle
was wrenching not only for him but also for those who had helped him, many of
them arguing that the mother's sacrifice left the son with a duty he could not
abandon so soon. But the life he led here -- the feet that swelled from too much
walking, the nights spent in the woods in Montgomery County -- proved that being
poor and alone in an alien place so full of promise is sometimes worse than
being poor at home without much hope.

As a tale of an undocumented resident who tried but didn't make it, Sanchez's
short stay reveals how the region's growing Latino community works as a magnet
and then an incubator for new arrivals, as a loose fraternity for those who have
trouble adjusting and finally as the only refuge for those who can't.

Laconic and at times very much a boy, Sanchez said he felt "despair" from the
moment he arrived at the Rockville home of sponsors he barely knew, a Nicaraguan
family that borrowed $ 2,800 to pay for his trip and offered him a home and a
job until he could set out on his own. The burden of repaying a sum that to him
seemed a fortune scared him, Sanchez told several people, and three weeks later
he sneaked away, astonishing the sponsors, who had intended to help Sanchez's
mother and have now assumed the loan.

But even with that burden lifted, life here was much harder than he had
imagined. Whether it was his age, his mother's death or the weight of the
inevitable obstacles -- all factors cited by people who helped him -- Francisco
Sanchez simply wanted to go home.

"He had an illusion that life was easier here," said Santiago Cortez, a member
of the Nicaraguan Catholic Community and one of several people who took Sanchez
in. "He saw that we have to run around from one place to another, and that life
is hard.

"When you come here," Cortez said, "you have to have a lot of courage to get
ahead."

The car dealership near Montgomery Mall pays Jose Antonio Barberena a couple of
dollars for every car he cleans, piecemeal work that keeps him busy and out of
sight, in the back of the service department. It is illegal work because he is
undocumented, and that distinction made him a kindred spirit when Francisco
Sanchez showed up looking for a job on a hot August day.

Sanchez had been living on the streets for more than two weeks, feeding himself
with the little money he had saved cleaning offices, the side business of the
Nicaraguan who had sponsored him. His cash was running low, he was surviving on
soft drinks and bread.

Barberena, 30, a Guatemalan, was summoned to the parking lot by a worker who had
not understood what Sanchez was saying. "Do you have papers?" Barberena asked.

"No."

"Do you know English?"

"No," Sanchez said. "I need someone to help me because I'm desperate."

Barberena said he was moved because he saw himself in Sanchez. That night, at
great risk, he hid the teenager in the well of one of the car lifts in the
service department, covering him with some cardboard and telling him not to move
until Barberena came back to fetch him. "Don't say anything, because I'll get
into trouble," he told Sanchez.

The chance encounter marked the beginning of Sanchez's rescue, an effort that
over the next few weeks took him to several houses in Montgomery County and
involved parishioners in the District, Silver Spring and Alexandria. They
included a wealthy Nicaraguan woman who wanted to adopt him; yet another
undocumented resident, who put him up for more than a week; an Argentine woman
who, without knowing anything about him, took him in for two weeks; and finally
Onofre Gutierrez of the Nicaraguan Catholic Community, who was instrumental in
granting Sanchez's wish to leave.

Barberena, who married an American citizen and is obtaining a visa, sheltered
Sanchez for three weeks and gave him tips on how to avoid detection: Never
urinate on the street; don't shoplift; avoid the police. "If you don't have
anyone to back you up, to help you, what do you do?" Barberena said in an
interview two months after he had passed Sanchez on to others. "Blessed be the
Lord for having him cross my path."

Barberena arrived five years ago after accepting a vague offer from an American
who owned a restaurant concession at a District hotel. He left his three
children and their mother in Guatemala, and as with Sanchez, what he expected
was not what he found. His sponsor, whom he had met while working at a hotel in
Guatemala City, on the first night here took him to an apartment in Chevy Chase
and tried to get him drunk. "He wanted me to please him in another way," said
Barberena, who fended off the advances.

Barberena and countless others lived through hard times and the inevitable
disappointments, and in the fraternity of undocumented residents, where such
survival stories are held up as trophies, Sanchez's departure did not make
sense.

"That is what I don't understand about him," Barberena said. He recalls telling
Sanchez, "Francisco, look how much it has cost you to get here. Stay here. Help
your family. How many of us want to come here? . . . What are you going to do?
How will you help your brothers? You can do more here. You will regret it."

"I want to go back. I want to go back," Barberena remembered Sanchez replying.
"He was almost crying."

In several interviews, Sanchez did not elaborate on his reasons for leaving,
saying only that he was "desperate." But his descriptions of the difficult
journey and the fact that, to this day, he does not know where his mother's body
is, clearly took an enormous toll.

Mother and son saw each other for the last time in March or April, when they
tried crossing from Guatemala to Mexico for the third time in six months. On two
earlier attempts, the "coyotes," people who earn their living smuggling others
into the United States, had been caught and the 20 or so travelers deported to
Guatemala. "I have suffered so much; I have put up with so much; I am going to
struggle one more time," the mother, Carmen Amador, told her sponsor in
Rockville during a telephone call from El Salvador.

On the third attempt, Sanchez and other young men were hiding in the crawl space
between the roof and the ceiling of a train. Near Tapachula, Mexican immigration
authorities detected the group. The men were ordered off, detained for a day,
and eventually deported. Carmen Amador, a short and stocky woman known to
friends as La Carmita, was posing as a passenger on the train and was not
caught. Several weeks later, when he had gone back to El Salvador to await yet
another attempt, one of the coyotes called Sanchez and told him his mother and
several other people had drowned when their boat capsized.

"No! I didn't believe it. I didn't believe it," Sanchez said, recounting the
moment and choking back tears. "I want to go to that place, I told him. I want
to go see my mother. I want to go. Take me, I told him."

It is unclear where the accident took place. In telephone interviews, Mexican
officials and Red Cross workers along the border with Guatemala did not recall
the incident but said such accidents are not unusual.

Sanchez said he spoke by telephone later with a survivor of the accident, a man
whose daughter also drowned. He was told that it happened in Mexico during a
storm "at sea," an unusual description because most such crossings are over
rivers, in this case the Suchiate, on the border between Mexico and Guatemala.

Sanchez called his brothers and sisters in Nicaragua and broke the news. They
told him to return, but he said he had decided to finish what his mother set out
to do.

"She wanted to send things to the girls," Sanchez said, referring to his two
younger sisters. She "wanted to improve their economic condition, send them
little things, their shoes, clothing. That is what she was thinking. A little
money."

On Oct. 14, the night before Sanchez's departure, members of the Nicaraguan
Catholic Community gathered at the Alexandria home of Onofre and Vilma
Gutierrez, where Sanchez had been spending his last week in this country. "He is
insisting, and we no longer are going to say that he stay," said Imelda Pierson,
the group's president. "He should not be pressured."

Sanchez had fallen into their laps five weeks earlier. Barberena had taken him
to the Nicaraguan Embassy, where a clerk explained that the passport would be
free but airfare would not. The two were referred to Onofre Gutierrez, who is
widely known in the local Nicaraguan community, and in the ensuing weeks the
group coordinated fund-raisers, shuffled Sanchez from house to house, gave him
odd jobs and tried to persuade him to stay.

With his plane ticket in hand, the group offered Sanchez a $ 50 monthly stipend
if he enrolled in a technical program in his home town of Granada.

That night, Sanchez posed for pictures and laughed.

The next day, Onofre Gutierrez and his son, Ignacio, drove Sanchez to National
Airport. Onofre Gutierrez said, "Take care," and Sanchez shook his hand, smiled
and waved goodbye.

"He is happy," Onofre Gutierrez said. "It is what he wanted."


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DESPITE SUPPORT FROM OTHER NICARAGUAN IMMIGRANTS, FRANCISCO
SANCHEZ AMADOR WANTED ONLY TO GO HOME. NANCY ANDREWS

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              118 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 5, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Church's 'National Migration Week' Seeks to Ease Path

Gustav Niebuhr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 706 words


At a time when hostility to immigrants is on the rise in many parts of the
United States, officials at the U.S. Catholic Conference are celebrating
National Migration Week, hosting "multicultural" Masses to which recent arrivals
have been invited to tell their stories.

When people get to know an individual immigrant, they often put aside their
antagonism, said the Rev. Richard Ryscavage, who directs the conference's
Migration and Refugee Services. "This is one tool the church can use to calm
people in the country about immigrants . . . to take away the fear factor."

Near the close of a midday Mass at the conference's offices -- near Catholic
University at 3211 4th St. NE -- a priest beckoned a slender young man to come
up to the lectern and talk about how he came to the United States.

Habtom T. Gebremichael -- a soft-spoken, 29-year-old from Eritrea, in east
Africa -- took a few minutes to tell a harrowing story.

This is what he said: He was jailed by the former Marxist military government of
Ethiopia, was tortured and later forced into the army. He escaped, walked to the
neighboring nation of Djibouti, then took a boat to Saudi Arabia, where he
worked two years. He bought a passport to get him to Sweden, where he sought
political asylum, but was deported to Sudan, where he was arrested. He escaped,
lived in Sudan for two years and then finally hiked five days through the desert
to Egypt, where he found a Catholic church and a sponsoring organization that
sent him to the United States.

"He's such a survivor. . . . There's such a will to carry on, such an energy.
And that's an incredible gift to this country," said Ryscavage, a Jesuit priest.

The Mass was the first of three to be held at the conference's offices. Today a
wounded Bosnian Croatian soldier and a Bosnian Muslim woman will offer their
testimony. On Thursday, a Vietnamese-born woman who fled her country by boat in
1984 will speak.

Ryscavage said the speakers were chosen partly on the basis of their
availability and partly because the staff at the migration office wanted to
highlight concerns about African and Bosnian refugees.

But he also said that because the Catholic Church "pre-dates the establishment
of sovereign states," it does not make the same legal distinctions among
immigrants that governments do. "Ultimately, for the church, a newcomer is a
newcomer, particularly if they are in need."

A statement deploring "the growing hostility toward immigrants," authorized in
November by U.S. bishops, did not distinguish between legal and illegal
immigration. Ryscavage said the church does not support illegal immigration, but
believes that a "generous" provision should be made for allowing newcomers into
the country.

"The church has such a solid moral ground to stand on, to say it's in the Gospel
to welcome strangers," said Randy K. Glantz, spokesman for the bishops' refugee
services.

At yesterday's Mass, the Rev. Tesfamarian Baraki noted that according to
Scripture, Jesus's family was forced to flee for safety into Egypt shortly after
his birth. He asked those present to remember "uprooted" persons everywhere.

After the Mass, Baraki, a priest in the Washington Archdiocese's Ethiopian and
Eritrean Apostolate, said African refugees like Gebremichael face special
difficulties. "As new immigrants, these people don't have a place in the black
community or in the white community, so they are struggling."

Baraki, pastor of the Kidane-Mehret Ge'ez Rite Church -- which meets in the
former high school All Souls, at 1001 Lawrence St. NE -- said between 30,000 and
50,000 Ethiopians and Eritreans live in the United States; about 5 percent are
Catholics. Many came to this country with no family and are expected to send
money home. It can be very stressful, he said.

"Just in December, we heard of three suicides . . . because these young people
don't have any support systems. And they're trying to support their families
back in their homelands," Baraki said.

At this point, Gebremichael spoke up, saying, "Well, I'm lucky. Some [Eritrean]
refugees died in the desert. They couldn't find water." On the other hand, he
said, he had been laid off on Friday from his job as a shuttle bus driver.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: In an article Wednesday, the Rev. Tesfamarian Baraki was quoted
incorrectly. He said that between 30,000 and 50,000 Ethiopian and Eritrean
immigrants live in the Washington metropolitan area.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HABTOM T. GEBREMICHAEL, A REFUGEE FROM ERITREA, TOLD A HARROWING
STORY OF DIFFICULTIES IN FLEEING HIS HOMELAND. CRAIG HERNDON

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              119 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 15, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Stowaways Found Dead on Ships

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A16; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 85 words


Stowaways seeking to enter the United States illegally were found by immigration
officials in Philadelphia and Boston, with three dead from suffocation aboard
one of the ships, officials said.

Four men, believed to be Colombians, were found aboard the container ship in
Philadelphia. Three of them were dead and the fourth was hospitalized.

In Boston, at least 20 Romanian stowaways were found aboard a container ship in
what authorities said was the fourth incident of its kind in recent months.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              120 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 3, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

In Migrant Camp, Relief Is Met With Caution

Guy Gugliotta, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1229 words

DATELINE: FLORIDA CITY, Fla., Sept. 2, 1992


By night, packs of hunger-maddened dogs fight vicious battles over morsels of
rancid meat and other edible unmentionables rotting in the Mixmastered remains
of what used to be a trailer camp.

By day, toddlers amuse themselves riding tricycles and searching for sodden
treasures nestled in the wreckage of their homes, while parents cautiously eye a
parade of soldiers, police and uniformed relief officials, still unsure whether
arrest and deportation lurk in the flood of goodwill pouring in from all sides.

"Five migra [Immigration and Naturalization Service] patrols were here right
after the storm," Maria Elena Quiroga said. "What a disgrace that they come here
in the middle of a disaster looking to take people away."

The INS visit could not be confirmed, but this week the migrant workers of the
Everglades Labor Camp deep in the flatland savanna of Florida's south Dade
County played host to dozens of volunteers from other agencies of official
America.

The camp, virtually obliterated by Hurricane Andrew last week, was being killed
with kindness. Four mobile medical vans pulled into the yard in front of the
camp's day-care center before noon one day recently, disgorging doctors, nurses
and orderlies from towns and cities up and down the East Coast.

Air National Guard troops from the 202nd Civil Engineering Squadron of Starke,
Fla., hooked up the generator for a makeshift infirmary and chain-sawed trees in
the front yards of those fortunate enough to have lived in sturdy cinder-block
cottages rather than trailers that were shredded, chopped and sent to perdition
by Andrew's 140-mph sustained winds.

Heavy-equipment operators from the Florida Water and Sewer Authority bulldozed
chunks of trailers into neat piles so Air Force Tech. Sgt. Danny Inch and his
nine-member 41st Air Rescue unit could have a better place to land helicopters.

Inch and his friends, more accustomed to picking astronauts out of the water off
Cocoa Beach, Fla., had arrived in the middle of last week to take command of
relief efforts. They now patrol the grounds at night, keeping the dogs at bay
and contemplating mayhem. "They haven't bitten anyone yet," Inch said. "We
haven't killed any, and we won't. But this has got to stop."

The objects of their protection, and their growing respect and affection, are
512 predominantly Mexican vegetable pickers, nursery workers, laborers and their
families, all that remain of about 4,000 people who lived in the camp before
Andrew arrived Aug. 24.

"I have never been so close to death," said Cesar Fuentes, 44, who took his
wife, four children and three friends into a tiny bathroom and jammed himself
against the door after Andrew broke his windows, tore off part of his roof and
turned his household into a soggy mass of nothing. "I got tired, and I almost
gave up. The wall was bowing inward with the pressure. For three nights
afterwards, I couldn't sleep. I just woke up screaming."

Fuentes, like all of those interviewed at the Everglades Labor Camp this week,
has no insurance, no savings and no job prospects outside south Dade County
where he has lived and worked, hand to mouth, for 12 years.

But it was ever thus. The migrants, from places such as Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leo'n,
San Luis, Michoaca'n and points south, came to Florida in search of jobs,
schools for their children and the opportunity to send money home. Moving is not
an option.

"What am I supposed to do?" said Belia Gonzalez, 23, who lives with her husband
and three children in a cottage that no longer has bedrooms. "We have no money
to go to Mexico, and even if we went back there, we wouldn't have anything to
do."

Work is what this is all about. "My wife cried when she saw our trailer," said
Gilberto Villanueva, 48, who earlier this year moved out of a cottage to become
the sheepish owner of a now nonexistent mobile home. "But I didn't, because you
can always find work here."

For the Mexican migrants, buried deep in Dade County's multi-ethnic pecking
order, encounters with U.S. public officials most often involve unpleasant
questions about "papers" -- legal residence, work permits and whether a person
has a right to be in the United States at all.

Villanueva came to Florida 18 years ago and is a legal resident with seven
children who are U.S. citizens because they were born here. Most of the other
migrants have been in Florida six to 12 years. All said they have papers, but
all know that some papers are better than others.

"Sure there are some undocumented people here," said Quiroga, a mother of five.
"But these are hard workers, and if we weren't here nobody would pick the crops.
All we want is to be left alone."

That became impossible after Andrew. Although the camp, miles from any
significant population center, was virtually ignored in the immediate aftermath
of the storm, help was coming in waves a week later.

Now there is a five-foot mountain of bottled water in the yard alongside the
camp's day-care center. The center itself has become an enormous bodega filled
with everything from canned clam chowder to roasted peanuts and three kinds of
soap. One bin offered Huggies, Pampers and ordinary diapers.

A Filene's-basement-sized pile of clothes yielded shirts, trousers and blouses
of all shapes and sizes. Villanueva, a stubby man with outsized shoulders, used
manicuring scissors to cut down the sleeves of a turquoise shirt, giving him a
raffish, very-Miami look. "I could use some underwear," he said, with a laugh.
"But I'm not complaining."

Indeed, nobody is complaining. The migrants cook over charcoal fires, something
most of them did throughout childhood. They never had air conditioning, so
tropical heat is no problem, and plastic sheets and tents keep the rain at bay.

To meet relief workers, the migrants used the time-honored tactic of sending
their children as ambassadors. The youngsters speak English, which makes them
invaluable as interpreters, and they are cute, wide-eyed and cuddly, apparent
innocents who can nevertheless instantly assess the potential for migra trouble
and report back.

By today, the volunteers appeared to have passed the test. "We have absolutely
everything we need," Quiroga said. "And these people have been great."

But not great enough to be approached randomly. Inch concluded that "they're
awfully shy," but it is no wonder. Short and cheery, Inch obviously is
accustomed to attracting people like a magnet, but his team of hulking young Air
Force divers, wearing olive-drab T-shirts, shorts and semiautomatic pistols on
their hips, project all the warmth of a gang of Clint Eastwoods looking for
someone to "make my day."

Despite their standoffishness, the migrants' quiet stoicism under appalling
conditions has stirred stupefied admiration among relief workers.

"My God, these people are tough," said medical volunteer Richard Williams, an
off-duty crisis nurse at Miami's VA Hospital. "My wife was complaining because
we didn't have any air conditioning for two days, and look at these folks --
they have nothing at all."

It is clear that the relief workers often felt greater sympathy for the migrants
than the migrants did for themselves. When Fuentes emerged from his bathroom to
find his whole life heaped in a pile on the living-room floor, he hardly
noticed.

"To tell you the truth," he said with a shrug, "I felt reborn."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, YOUNG RESIDENT OF EVERGLADES LABOR CAMP CARRIES OFF INFANT
FORMULA FOR HIS SISTER AS PERSONNEL FROM PATRICK AIR FORCE BASE UNLOAD RELIEF
SUPPLIES. MARY LOU FOY

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              121 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 29, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

Guatemala Agrees to Facilitate Repatriation of Illegal Chinese Immigrants

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 795 words


Nearly two weeks after the Coast Guard boarded a battered fishing trawler headed
for California with a cargo of more than 100 illegal Chinese immigrants,
Guatemala has agreed to let the ship land so that most of the passengers can be
sent home, the Coast Guard announced yesterday.

As with several of the Chinese smugglers' ships intercepted last year, the
crowded vessel has remained at sea in federal custody while the State Department
conducted complex negotiations with several nations to determine the fate of its
passengers and investigators sought to identify those responsible for financing
the ship's journey.

Six federal agents boarded the ship yesterday off Acapulco, Mexico, and began
investigating allegations that the ship was operated by a major Chinese
smuggling ring, a senior Clinton administration official said. The agents are
prepared to arrest the captain and crew and remove them from the ship before it
reaches Guatemalan waters, the official said.

In addition, the official said, passengers who can provide testimony against the
smugglers will be asked to come to the United States as witnesses. The rest of
the passengers will be turned over to an international agency for screening and
probable repatriation when the ship arrives in Guatemala.

If all goes as planned, the official said, this would mark the first time that
the United States has brought criminal charges against immigrant smugglers
captured on the high seas and prosecuted them with the help of witnesses from
their ship.

The Taiwanese-registered ship, the 168-foot Jin Yinn, was boarded by sailors
from two cutters about 890 miles southwest of San Diego on April 16, Coast Guard
officials said. They found 113 passengers, all believed to be from mainland
China. Four of the crew, including the captain, are from Taiwan while six other
crewmen are Chinese nationals, a State Department official said.

Last July the seizure of three smuggling ships off the California coast provoked
a two-week diplomatic standoff until the Clinton administration persuaded a
reluctant Mexican government to accept the ship. All but two of the more than
600 Chinese nationals aboard the flotilla were promptly flown home after the
ships docked in the Mexican port of Ensenada.

Both in that case and in the current one the administration has been determined
not to let the smugglers' human cargo enter the United States.

Once they reach American soil foreign nationals have the right to seek political
asylum regardless of how they got here. Because the asylum system is
overwhelmingly backlogged, most applicants in recent years have been left free
to live and work in the United States while their cases lay in a bureaucratic
limbo.

Unlike last July, the Mexican government has refused to cooperate in this case,
and several Central American countries were contacted before Guatemala agreed to
let the ship dock, an administration official said. Negotiations have been under
way with the International Organization of Migrants, the same group that handled
the repatriation of the immigrants last summer.

The diplomatic negotiations that accompanied the seizure of the Jin Yinn started
even before it was boarded, a State Department official said. Once it was
spotted 240 miles southeast of San Diego while headed for California, the ship
turned to the open sea and refused to acknowledge Coast Guard signals. While
cutters shadowed it for five days, federal officials obtained permission from
the Taiwanese government to board and seize it.

The ship was then put under tow and held at sea for nearly two more weeks as
U.S. diplomats searched for a country that would allow it to land. Currently the
ship is scheduled to reach Guatemalan waters early next week, but negotiations
are continuing on how investigators will deal with the crew and potential
witnesses.

Like the Golden Venture, which ran aground in New York last summer, federal
officials said the voyage of the Jin Yinn appears to be the work of one of
several large criminal organizations that coordinate activities among recruiters
who find passengers in China's Fujien province, financiers and ship brokers from
various Asian countries and criminal gangs based in New York's Chinatown.

The last such ship known to have reached the United States unloaded more than
100 illegal immigrants off the Virginia coast in mid-March. That incident came
to light April 5 after federal agents raided a house in Prince Georges County
and found 64 allegedly illegal Chinese immigrants in the basement and detained
another 12 in Flushing, N.Y.

The arrival of the two ships this spring marked the end of a lull in such
activities that had begun last summer, an official of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              122 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 4, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Verifies Killings in Serb Camps;
State Dept. Spokesman Repeats Condemnation Of 'Horrible' Abuses

Don Oberdorfer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 925 words


The Bush administration said yesterday it has confirmed reports that Croats and
Slavic Muslims are being tortured and killed in Serb "detention camps" in the
former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia, but gave no indication that the United
States is willing to go beyond verbal condemnation to halt the atrocities.

State Department spokesman Richard Boucher called the kinds of abuses reported
in the Serb camps "just horrible" and said the United States has made absolutely
clear its condemnation of the "practice of ethnic cleansing" in the struggle
between Yugoslav ethnic, religious and national groups.

The only specific measure endorsed by Boucher to stop the atrocities, however,
was an appeal that the International Red Cross be permitted to visit the camps,
which are being compared to the World War II Nazi concentration camps for Jews.
Repeated appeals by the international body have so far met with limited success.

A senior State Department official justified the current U.S. posture by saying
that economic sanctions, diplomatic isolation and the start of a negotiating
process among the Yugoslav combatants have already been implemented with U.S.
support. If stronger measures are needed, the official said, "the only thing
left is the question of military action."

Boucher said the United States is continuing to consult with allies about ways
to ease the situation in Bosnia, but official sources said no new U.S.
initiatives are in sight. Last week the White House sharply criticized
Democratic presidential nominee Bill Clinton for suggesting that the United
States seek U.N. Security Council authorization for air strikes against forces
attacking the U.N. relief effort in Bosnia.

After months of hesitation and internal debate, President Bush recently
authorized the limited use of U.S. force as part of multinational efforts to
provide humanitarian relief to war victims in Bosnia. Even this restricted
mission has prompted deep misgivings among senior U.S. military officers and
Pentagon officials.

As recently as last Saturday, Secretary of Defense Richard B. Cheney reiterated
his opposition to committing U.S. forces in ground action that could lead to
deepening involvement. "It's tragic, but the Balkans have been a hotbed of
conflict and turmoil and bloodshed and violence for centuries," Cheney said in
an interview on Cable News Network.

Reports have filtered out of the Balkans for months about abuses and atrocities
in detention camps and other places where civilians were being held prisoner.
Among the most extensive accounts, the New York newspaper Newsday reported
Sunday on the basis of interviews with survivors that more than 1,000 civilians
have been executed or starved in two Serb camps set up in northern Bosnia.

One survivor said prisoners were executed in groups of 10 to 15 every few days
in a former iron-mining complex at Omarska where Croat and Slavic Muslim
prisoners were held in metal cages without sanitation, adequate food or
exercise. Another survivor said 1,350 prisoners were slaughtered between mid-May
and mid-June in an improvised camp in the city of Brcko, many of them with their
throats cut and their bodies thrown into a nearby river, Newsday reported.

A State Department official said recent press reports and similar information
received through official channels "provided confirmation of what we've all
suspected has been going on" for months.

In Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross said its personnel have
visited eight detention centers in Bosnia but have been unable to gain access to
many other camps. The Swiss government called on combatants in Bosnia to open
the detention camps to the Red Cross.

"Very serious violations of internationally recognized law and practice on the
treatment of civilians in military conflicts are being perpetuated by all
parties," Red Cross spokesman Pierre Gathier said, according to Reuter.

In a speech to a U.N. conference in Geneva last week, Red Cross chief Cornelio
Sommaruga placed blame on all the warring parties, and said civilian populations
"are being terrorized, minorities intimidated and harassed, civilians interned
on a massive scale and hostages taken, while torture, deportations and summary
executions are rife."

Boucher said the United States has received reports that the Muslim-led Bosnian
government and Croat militia forces in the republic, as well as Serbs, also
maintain detention centers, "but we do not have similar allegations of
mistreatment at those."

The State Department also condemned the sniper attack Saturday night on a bus
carrying 50 orphaned children from Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia, to new homes in
Germany. Two of the children were killed in the gunfire, and nine others were
prevented from leaving because they had Serb names.

"It's hard to imagine how anybody can continue the violence, continue to support
the violence, when it's reached this state," said Boucher.

[Dusko Tomic, secretary general of the Medjasi Children's Embassy, which
organized the orphans' evacuation, told Associated Press that Serb police seized
the nine children in the Sarajevo suburb of Ilidza. The local Serb commander and
a doctor from the Ilidza field hospital claimed permission to care for the
children until relatives picked them up, he said.]

[The AP reported from Croatia that the bus arrived in the Adriatic port of Split
yesterday with the 39 remaining orphans aboard. The children were taken to an
orphanage for the night and were to be flown to Germany early today.]


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, NURSES TEND TO ORPHANS REMOVED BY SERB FORCES FROM A BUS THAT
WAS TO CARRY THEM FROM SARAJEVO TO GERMANY. AFP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              123 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 27, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S., in Shift, to Accept Balkan War Refugees

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 672 words


The United States yesterday put aside its earlier reluctance to accept refugees
from the civil war in the Balkans, saying it would allow up to 1,000 persons
released from detention camps in Bosnia-Hercegovina and their immediate family
members to come to this country.

State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the Bush administration was
making an exception to policy because the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees
has determined there is an urgent need to move released detainees out of the
combat zone.

U.S. officials expect that the majority will be Muslims who had been held in
camps run by Bosnian Serb irregular forces. About 1,600 released detainees
currently are at a transit facility run by the Red Cross in Croatia, and U.N.
officials say that unless they move on, the lack of space would make it
difficult to arrange the release of about 7,000 others still being detained.

Earlier, the United States had said it would take about 100 former detainees who
urgently need medical treatment. But the U.S. position generally has been that
the main emphasis of the United Nations and individual countries should be on
getting supplies into Bosnia to prevent mass starvation and other hardships
during the coming winter.

Moreover, U.S. officials have voiced concern that resettling large numbers of
refugees would play into the hands of efforts by Bosnian Serbs to cleanse much
of Bosnia of its non-Serb population. In August, Acting Secretary of State
Lawrence S. Eagleburger told the London conference on Yugoslavia that any
resolution of the civil war should contain provision for refugees to return to
their homes.

Boucher said yesterday that the administration decided it had to set aside such
concerns temporarily because of the humanitarian plight faced by the detainees.
He said they would enter the United States under conditions allowing them
permanent status here, but added the hope that they eventually would be able to
return home if they wish.

Also yesterday, Clyde Snow, a prominent forensic anthropologist working with the
United Nations, told a news conference at the State Department details of the
apparent massacre of 174 wounded Croatian soldiers, whose bodies were discovered
by U.N. officials earlier this month near the Croatian city of Vukovar. The city
was besieged for three months last year by Serb irregulars and the
Serbian-controlled Yugoslav National Army, known as the JNA.

Snow said his information came from two witnesses who escaped the alleged
massacre. According to his account, after the JNA occupied the city, it agreed
to transfer the approximately 400 Croatian patients in the Vukovar hospital to
Croatian control.

However, the account continued, JNA troops appeared at the hospital on Nov. 21,
1991, and, under orders from the colonel in command, singled out 174 wounded
Croats and put them aboard three buses. The witnesses said those taken away
initially were not alarmed because they thought their move was part of the
transfer arrangements.

Instead, the witnesses continued, the buses were taken first to a JNA barracks,
where they were held for several hours, and then to a farm at the nearby village
of Ovcara. There, they were taken off the buses, herded into a large shed and
beaten savagely for hours by a mixed group of JNA soldiers and Serb irregulars.

The witnesses said the prisoners then were segregated into groups of about 20
men each. Each group was loaded, in turn, on a truck which shuttled back and
forth between the farm and a secluded field off a dirt road. There, each group
was shot to death and their bodies pushed into the mass grave. The truck then
returned to the farm to ferry another load of prisoners to the killing site.

Snow said that when he and U.N. officials located the site, they found four sets
of skeletal remains protruding from the mass grave. He said the site has been
secured by U.N. troops, while a U.N. commission, appointed last Friday to
investigate war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, decides what to do next.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              124 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 31, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

48 Cuban Defectors Released in Miami;
Months of Plotting, Tension, Fears Described

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 522 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 30, 1992


The 48 Cubans who defected here aboard a Cuban commercial airliner Tuesday were
released from U.S. custody tonight and were embraced by weeping relatives. They
told tales of months of plotting, fear of betrayal and the code word "fiesta."

Surrounded by a crush of television cameras and reporters at the gates of the
Krome Avenue Detention Center, the defectors said their escape aboard the Aero
Caribbean airliner began when they received phone calls Monday night and were
told by plot organizers that it was time for a "fiesta."

The code "fiesta" meant that the defectors should attempt to board the flight
Tuesday morning from Havana to Varadero Beach, a popular Cuban resort.

The flight, usually reserved for tourists, was headed to Varadero empty because
of mechanical problems, which the defectors said they helped to cause.

Some of the defectors who arrived at the Havana airport for the flight did not
know each other.

"There was a lot of tension. It was risky. We had to keep it very secret," said
Jorge Enrique Provenza, 36. "Everyone knew but we couldn't even say 'hello' to
each other in public or let on. We couldn't trust each other. We really got to
know each other on the flight to Miami."

Pilot Carlos Cancio Portel, one of the apparent leaders of the defection, was
whisked away tonight from the Immigration and Naturalization Service's detention
center at the edge of the Everglades without speaking to reporters.

He and the others had been detained and questioned by federal investigators as
prosecutors considered whether to charge them with hijacking or other crimes.

After a security guard and the plane's copilot were restrained and the guard
drugged by the defecting passengers, the plane veered off its domestic route and
touched down at Miami International Airport with 53 people aboard.

The five people who did not seek asylum, including the copilot and the security
guard, left Miami tonight on a flight back to Cuba while a Cuban pilot flew home
the Aero Caribbean plane.

Andres Rivero, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office here, said the FBI
spent the day interviewing the Cubans to determine whether they had violated
U.S. or international law.

Legal sources said the United States has several statutes that could apply to
the case, including laws and treaties against air piracy, transport of stolen
property and kidnapping.

However, several lawyers here said it would be highly unusual for the government
to prosecute the defectors. Such a prosecution is certain to enrage Miami's
large and influential Cuban-exile community, which has embraced the 48 as
heroes.

"There is a lot of discretion involved in these kinds of cases," said Mark
Schnapp, a former assistant U.S. attorney now in private practice. "The bottom
line is that no one was hurt and that these people were fleeing a Communist
dictatorship."

Cubans most often arrive here after hijacking boats, and the boats and their
captains are allowed to return. In the last year, others have arrived in stolen
helicopters or other planes later returned. No one in recent memory has been
prosecuted for such acts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              125 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                       May 7, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Open: Jobs for Specialists;
Wanted: Foreign Workers;
Labor Dept. Proposes 'Green Card' Shortcut

Boyce Rensberger, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 912 words


At a time when shrinking federal science dollars and spreading layoffs in
high-tech industries are putting American scientists and engineers out of work,
the Labor Department is trying to make it easier for employers to hire
foreigners.

The department's plan is to declare shortages of scientists and engineers in
various fields in certain states. Employers in those places then would no longer
need to advertise openings to Americans -- even though some states may have
surpluses -- before giving the job to a foreign scientist or engineer.

According to proposed rules published in the March 19 Federal Register, the
Labor Department would automatically certify aliens for permanent residence in
the United States if they were qualified for certain jobs in official shortage
states. The proposed system would shortcut the current process whereby employers
who wish to hire foreigners first must prove that they could not find a
qualified American. Certification is a necessary step before foreigners can get
"green cards" that allow a them to reside here permanently.

If the department's proposal survives the comment period, which will end June 1,
it would declare that there are shortages of chemists in six states, chemical
engineers in three states, computer scientists in seven states, and biologists
in 17 states, including Maryland, home of the National Institutes of Health, the
nation's largest employer of biomedical scientists. The department believes
there are also shortages of materials engineers in four states and mechanical
engineers in two states.

The proposal has baffled and outraged leaders in several scientific and
engineering fields.

"I don't think there are shortages of anybody right now, aside from a few
esoteric superspecialties," said Betty Vetter, head of the Commission on
Professionals in Science and Technology, who opposes the proposal. "The timing
of this thing absolutely blows the mind."

Vetter's group, which collects data on the supply of and demand for scientists
in all fields, is sponsored by 27 scientific societies, including all the
specialties in which the Labor Department study contends there are shortages.

"Shortage? I certainly don't see any shortage in biomedical science," said
Robert D. Goldman, chairman of the department of cellular, molecular and
structural biology at Northwestern University's medical school. "When we
advertise for an assistant professor or something comparable, we regularly get
over 500 applications from all over the country. That doesn't look like a
shortage to me."

Goldman, who is an officer of the American Society for Cell Biology, one of the
country's largest associations of biomedical researchers, said the supply of
federal grant money for training and research has tightened so much in recent
years and job opportunities have dwindled so much that many young people are
quitting science for other fields.

Even young biomedical scientists who stay in the field, Vetter said, must
usually be content with a series of temporary jobs that pay the least of any
field requiring a doctorate. Starting salaries for PhDs in biology typically are
in the low $ 30,000s.

"If there really were a shortage of biomedical PhDs," Vetter said. "You would
think they'd be offering a lot more."

Martin Siegel of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers said there were so
few jobs in his field that only two-thirds of the chemical engineers who will
graduate this year have been offered jobs. Normally, he said, they all have
positions by the time they leave school.

Individual scientists also have spoken out against the proposal.

"I wish to express my vehement objections to these completely specious
conclusions," John G. Van Alsten wrote the Labor Department. A chemist with E.
I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Van Alsten said many of his colleagues are having
trouble finding jobs. He said he had talked with placement officers at three
major universities and all expressed incredulity that anyone could think there
were shortages of scientists and engineers.

Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.), chairman of the Government Operations
subcommittee on employment, housing and aviation, thinks high-tech jobs should
be kept open for Americans.

"It's inexplicable that Labor would view a possible shortage of, say, mechanical
engineers in Pennsylvania as a reason for opening the doors to foreigners
instead of expanding recruitment here at home," he said.

Pat Stange of the Labor Department's Division of Foreign Labor Certification,
which made the proposal, said the ruling is not final.

The determination of shortages was made by Malcolm S. Cohen of the University of
Michigan's Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations under a $ 50,000 contract
with the Labor Department. Cohen said he relied on statistics such as the
unemployment rates for each profession, the growth or decline in wages and the
number of foreigners certified by the department using the procedure.

"In no case did I find there was an overall shortage throughout the country,"
Cohen said. "The shortage indications are confined to specific states."

Cohen also said he does not consider his findings conclusive. He noted that
since he completed his study, several major employers of scientists and
engineers have laid off large numbers of professionals. Also, he said, "I didn't
actually talk to any employers or employee groups. That's what I'm hoping the
comment period will bring out."



LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, NOT ENOUGH AMERICANS? TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              126 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 11, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

State Department Is Slow to Hire Americans in Embassies Abroad;
Pay Scales Take Time, Agency Says;
Critics See Foot-Dragging

John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 841 words


Almost two years after Congress decided U.S. citizens could compete for
previously restricted jobs in American embassies abroad, the State Department
continues to block its far-flung outposts from hiring Americans.

Department officials say the delay comes from difficulties involved in
implementing the law. But disappointed job seekers and their allies in Congress
contend that the department simply has turned a straightforward legislative
directive into a bureaucratic nightmare.

At issue are approximately 9,400 positions -- among them those for drivers,
cooks, clerks, secretaries, accountants and translators -- that for years were
filled only by foreign nationals. In July 1991, Congress agreed that the
practice amounted to discrimination against Americans and passed legislation
opening the jobs to U.S. citizens.

The World Federation of Americans Abroad (WFAA), a private organization of about
150,000 members, says that since then, thousands of Americans have applied for
the jobs only to be told that they can't be hired because the State Department
still doesn't have an employment policy for them.

The principal problem, everyone agrees, is State's insistence on devising pay
scales for different jobs in different countries that are comparable to the
going rate for similar positions in the United States. The department also wants
to classify American hires as temporary employees and provide fewer fringe
benefits than those given to foreign employees.

WFAA and congressional staffers say that this approach conflicts with the intent
of the legislation when Sen. John D. "Jay" Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.) proposed it.
In a March 3 letter to J. Brian Atwood, undersecretary of state for management,
Rockefeller said that his idea was to give American employees salaries and
benefits equivalent to what foreign nationals are paid by U.S. embassies. To do
otherwise would discriminate against U.S. citizens, he said.

"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to understand that point," said one
congressional staff member. "But the State Department continues to insist that
it must have a different scale of pay, benefits and job security for Americans.
When you consider that they're trying to work out a system applicable to some
150 countries, many with vastly different pay rates, you come away with the
impression that they might be ready to start hiring Americans sometime after the
turn of the century."

"Such comments are terribly unfair," said Kenneth Hunter, a deputy assistant
secretary of state for personnel who is developing the pay scales for Americans.
"This takes a great amount of time and labor."

However, when Hunter and other State Department officials were asked why the
department doesn't want to pay Americans the same as foreign employees, they
didn't really have an answer. When asked about it during his confirmation
hearing in March, Atwood spoke of "the desirability of making the pay scale
equitable with the rates of pay received by other American employees abroad." He
didn't explain what he meant.

One problem cited by Hunter is that paying Americans the same as foreign
nationals would not be fair to spouses and family members of U.S. diplomats, who
can be hired for some embassy jobs for less pay than foreign workers. Hunter
also noted that in many Third World countries, some foreign workers are paid
below the U.S. minimum wage.

Advocates of hiring Americans say that both problems can be corrected easily.
Dependents of U.S. diplomats, who work in embassies, should be paid the same as
other American hires, they argue. Jobs paying less than the minimum wage simply
should not go to Americans.

Critics of State's approach say it reflects continued foot-dragging by a
department that was against hiring Americans in the first place. Some critics
also charge that the department wants a separate pay scale because Americans
often would be paid less and therefore would have less incentive to apply for
embassy jobs.

That reasoning is based on the fact that most positions likely to attract
American applicants would be in Western Europe and Japan, where foreign
employees earn fairly high salaries. By contrast, in Third World countries,
salaries tend to be far below U.S. levels.

Whatever the reason, State Department officials privately acknowledge that
unless there is considerably more pressure from Congress, the matter is unlikely
to be resolved any time soon. Atwood, who was recently confirmed in the
management post, is about to switch jobs and administer the Agency for
International Development. Supporters of Rockefeller's legislation will now have
to start all over with Atwood's successor.

Rockefeller recently said the new administration needs "time to get organized."
But he added that State's failure to act "has gone on too long," and in his
March 3 letter to Atwood, he criticized the proposed separate pay scale. "It
appears to me that discrimination against Americans -- and only Americans,
because they are Americans -- would be perpetuated," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              127 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 15, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

Maryland Seafood Plant Manager Calls Illegal Wages Unintended

Lisa Leff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, July 14, 1992


The manager of an Eastern Shore seafood processing plant acknowledged today that
his family's company paid its Mexican migrant workers illegally low wages to
pick crabs, but insisted that it was done out of ignorance, not malice.

Testifying in the civil trial resulting from a lawsuit brought by 15 of the
workers, Philip J. Harrington III said he did not know the Mexican women were
entitled to receive the federal minimum wage because the plant always paid its
American workers for every pound of meat they picked, not by the hour.

"I was in shock about the minimum wage. I owed them . . . money," Harrington
said, adding that the discrepancy was brought to his attention by a Maryland
labor official who was investigating his payroll records.

Similarly, Harrington, 21, said that he took the advice of a North Carolina
labor contractor in paying the Mexican crab pickers a piecework "training wage"
less than what he paid his American workers, unaware the practice was
discriminatory until he was sued.

The lawsuit, which alleges violations of U.S. labor standards and the workers'
civil rights, was brought by part of a group of 26 Mexican workers the Philip J.
Harrington and Son Seafood Co. hired last summer to work at its Secretary, Md.,
plant. The workers were brought to the United States under a Labor Department
program that permits employers to hire foreigners for jobs Americans are no
longer willing to perform.

The workers have maintained that they were fired from the company after they
complained to lawyers from the state Legal Aid Bureau and the American Civil
Liberties Union about their wages and other working conditions.

During the trial, four of them testified that Harrington confiscated their
passports, forbade them to leave the plant's premises unescorted and threatened
to abandon them at the Mexican border if they disobeyed.

Speaking in his defense today, Harrington attributed the women's claims to a
cultural misunderstanding that was exacerbated by the fact that he spoke no
Spanish and had to rely on a worker to translate his conversations.

For example, he said he did not fire the women from their jobs, but had simply
offered to return them to Mexico because he thought they were homesick after
almost three weeks in Maryland and wanted to return to their families.

"They didn't seem to be angry. I just assumed they wanted to go home," he said.

Harrington also disputed the workers' contention that they were treated like
virtual prisoners at the plant, forbidden to gather in a nearby park or to make
telephone calls in private.

He said that although he advised the women not to trespass on an adjacent
private property or to go out alone at night, the advice was offered for their
safety, not to restrict their movements.

Harrington's account of how he tracked down the women at a Washington shelter
for the homeless after they were removed from his plant by their attorneys also
differed dramatically from that of the workers. The workers testified that he
came to the shelter at 2 a.m. to intimidate them into signing forms pledging
they would not take legal action against him.

He said that he went to the shelter because five women had indicated they wanted
to return to the plant and that the forms were intended to avert further
misunderstandings.

Under Maryland wage guidelines, crab pickers last summer were to be paid $ 1.75
for every pound of meat they provided or the minimum wage of $ 4.25 an hour,
whichever was higher.

The Harrington plant paid the Mexicans a flat rate of $ 1.40 a pound.

During cross-examination, John Keeney, one of the workers' attorneys, asked how
Harrington could have been unaware that the women were entitled to the hourly
minimum wage of $ 4.25.

The Labor Department forms he filled out to get permission to hire the workers
clearly stated an intent to pay the minimum wage if their per-pound earnings did
not exceed that amount, as required by law.

Harrington said that in preparing the form, he had simply copied the information
from a similar form his labor contractor had supplied as a guide. "All I did was
copy the information. I didn't pay no attention to it," he said.

U.S. District Judge Benson E. Legg said he will issue a verdict in the case Aug.
14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              128 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 18, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Justice For Migrant Workers

Colman McCarthy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 744 words


Among the corporations that employ them, they are called "guest workers." The
euphemism camouflages what the sugar-cane cutters and apple pickers really are:
exploited Caribbean blacks -- mostly Jamaicans -- who are brought in for
seasonal farm work, often the most dangerous and arduous labor in America.

In separate courts recently, both groups won rare legal victories against
companies that care more for profits than economic fairness to workers. In
Florida, a circuit court judge ruled that 15,000 Caribbean cane cutters were
entitled to an estimated $ 50 million in damages because they were cheated out
of their full piece-rate salaries. In the District of Columbia, the U.S. Court
of Appeals affirmed a lower court ruling that some $ 6 million is owed by
growers to several thousand apple pickers who worked East Coast orchards from
1983 to 1985. They, too, were nickel-and-dimed out of piece-rate wages regulated
by the Department of Labor.

Both rulings coincided with the annual inflow of Jamaican and other West Indies
farm workers. These indigent and mostly unseen harvesters fan out to apple
orchards from Maine to Virginia and then migrate in early autumn to the Florida
cane fields on the south shore of Lake Okeechobee. After the six-month cutting
season -- and living in such dank company towns as Pahokee and Clewiston, and
doing exhausting work shunned by Americans -- they return to the islands for a
few months rest.

This time promises to be different. They'll be paid wages they agreed to work
for. The court decisions mean that each cane cutter is due as much as $ 6,000,
and apple pickers about $ 4,000.

In the Florida case, a judge found that six companies, including U.S. Sugar,
were paying workers about $ 3.75 per ton of cut cane after contractually
promising $ 5.30 per ton. The lower amount was "task-rate" pay. Field bosses
decided arbitrarily how much the task of cutting a given row of cane --
sometimes a half-mile long -- was worth, rather than basing the wages on
tonnage. For workers cutting 10 tons of cane a day, the difference amounts to at
least $ 16 a day. This shortchanging began in 1987.

The apple pickers had a more complicated case. A 1978 Labor Department
regulation required growers to raise their piece-rate wages proportionately to
increases in the minimum wage. The Reagan administration, in one of its meanest
assaults on the poor, reinterpreted the regulation to permit growers to pay
lower piece rates. The workers went to court, and in 1985 the Labor Department
was ordered to apply the 1978 regulations. Back wages of $ 6 million were
ordered for farm workers who picked in the 1983-85 seasons.

Translated from the language of courts and legal briefs, the two cases mean
this: Some growers thought they could get away with scamming their impoverished
workers, but they were caught in the act. In the $ 50 million Florida case,
these were immensely powerful and rich companies able to spend massive amounts
of money to hire major law firms to litigate aggressively. They represent U.S.
agriculture at its moral worst: conniving to deny the poorest people in the U.S.
labor force a few nickels for performing the dirtiest work.

As vile as these companies were, another group was worse: the federal and state
regulators who left the farm workers vulnerable in the first place. The
companies wouldn't have tried to cheat if they hadn't sensed a sunny regulatory
climate created in the Reagan-Bush years.

The growers might have pulled off their vicious gyps had it not been for a few
lawyers of conscience and grit who sided with the workers. These included
attorneys for the Migrant Legal Action Program and the Farmworker Justice Fund.
One lawyer, Edward Tuddenham of Austin, Tex., was involved in both cases. He
estimates that thousands of hours of legal work went into the suits, one of
which needed seven years to complete, the other three. "My only regret," he said
last week, "is that we weren't able to do something about these problems
sooner."

Tuddenham, Harvard Law '78 and one of only 12 members of that class who chose to
serve poor people, understands that lawyers like him can do only so much.
Employment contract violations are rampant, with few migrant farm workers aware
of their rights and having the emotional energy to stand up for them. When they
do stand, the enduring comfort is that some of the most spirited and idealistic
lawyers in the country are next to them.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              129 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 4, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Don't Cry for These Cane Cutters

James Terrill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 623 words


Post columnist Colman McCarthy attacked our company directly and, in our view,
unfairly in his op-ed column of July 18 ["Justice for Migrant Workers"].
McCarthy wrote that our company's guest workers are "exploited Caribbean
blacks," "impoverished" workers who were the target of a company "scam." In his
attack, he used such terms as "cheated," "shortchanging," "scamming,"
"conniving" and "vile."

He wrote that, thanks to a recent state court decision, "This time ... they'll
be paid wages they agreed to work for." If McCarthy had bothered to call us or
to visit our worker housing, he might have a different view.

For the record, the state court case did not involve the contract that Jamaican
cane cutters signed and which the U.S. Department of Labor and the West Indies
Central Labour Organization approved. Nowhere will he or the court find anyone
who negotiated that agreement to confirm that the contract says the workers
should be paid by a different method or were paid improperly. The terms of that
contract were fulfilled, and every man earned far more than the U.S. minimum
wage. The court ruling, which we expect to be overturned on appeal, was based on
excerpts from a state employment agency document that Jamaicans never see.

The judge used isolated phrases from that document, and not the actual contract,
to draw the false conclusion that workers were underpaid. In fact, cane cutters
work an average of six to 6 1/2 hours per day and cut about 1.2 to 1.5 tons per
hour. Their typical wage is close to $ 7 per hour and is monitored by electronic
timekeepers. Housing and medical care are free. Food is subsidized. At home they
would earn $ 3 per day.

Underlying McCarthy's use of pejorative language and broad generalizations is a
paternalistic view that these responsible West Indian men should not be allowed
to work in the United States for wages that are solidly middle class by their
nation's standards. Rather, the men and their families should suffer Third World
wages or unemployment in order to spare American journalists the sight of black
men working to improve their families' lives. When American men take hard,
dangerous jobs for high wages in Mideast oil fields, we admire their grit. When
Jamaicans take jobs in Florida that are safer, less arduous and far more
profitable than the same work in Jamaica, Americans see "exploitation."

Contrary to the column's insinuations, U.S. Sugar cane cutters in Florida are
not rootless "migrants" who drift around the country in an exploited underground
labor pool. They are documented workers whose housing and working conditions are
the best in American agriculture. Our company's fields and housing are open to
inspection by the press and by legal services representatives as well as by the
U.S. and Jamaican governments. These are not the appalling waterless shanties
depicted in "Harvest of Shame."

The tragedy is not the conditions or wages of West Indian H-2A Program workers.
Those conditions and wages are so desirable that most of the men return year
after year, taking their profits home to buy land, invest in small businesses
and educate their children.

Rather, the tragedy is that their jobs are being destroyed by the cost of
constant litigation mounted by the professional activist lawyers McCarthy so
admires. Those costs finally have forced U.S. Sugar to accelerate the
mechanization of its harvest. This year we will hire 1,100 fewer cutters than
last and will harvest a record 65 percent of the crop by machine.

This trend is not our choice. It is the sad result of a misguided idealism that
would destroy men's lives in the guise of improving them.

The writer is executive vice president of the United States Sugar Corp.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              130 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 6, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Sweetening the Pot for Cane Cutters

COLMAN McCARTHY

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C9; COLMAN MCCARTHY

LENGTH: 717 words


Unprecedented is a word to be used sparingly. A citizen who can claim it is J.
Nelson Fairbanks, president and CEO of U.S. Sugar, the Clewiston, Fla.,
corporation that is the country's largest cane grower.

Last month, Fairbanks and the 2,100 Caribbean farmworkers he employs to cut cane
in south central Florida announced a labor peace that was unprecedented.
Sometimes -- not often and not expected -- the poor win one and sometimes, too,
a wealthy corporation can have a conversion that puts it on the side of ethics
and fairness.

In negotiations with lawyers from the Farmworkers Justice Fund, Florida Rural
Legal Services and the Migrant Legal Action Program, U.S. Sugar has agreed to
raise the cutters' pay from an average of $ 6.54 an hour last season to $ 7.28
this year. This is $ 1.60 above the minimum wage set by the Labor Department for
employees in the H-2A foreign workers program.

Improvements in safety, health care and savings programs have been agreed upon,
as well as the creation of a labor dispute resolution program. In addition, the
company now offers tuition money for workers to attend night school classes.

None of this is heaven on Earth but it beats the hellishness of the old days. In
1983 the House Education and Labor subcommittee on labor standards held a series
of hearings in one of the sugar towns. It found that growers held a "unique and
awesome form of management power" over the cutters, who "can be summarily
dismissed and sent home, never to return to the United States, for the slightest
infraction or sign of organized protest over wages and working conditions."

H-2s, as they are called, have been coming to the cane fields since the early
1940s, settling in for the fall-to-spring sugar harvest in barren and dank towns
on the south shore of Lake Okeechobee. The Caribbean labor force, moving through
the muck and grime of rowed fields, performs what has been called the dirtiest
and most dangerous work in America, worse than meat packing and coal mining.

For the past 20 years, public-interest lawyers were about the only professional
allies the cutters had to protect them from corporate exploiters. The lawyers
organized, they sued, and would not go away. Farmworker law is not one of the
oversubscribed courses in U.S. law schools, which means that the few attorneys
who specialize in it tend to be committed advocates with the necessary fire and
ire.

One of the lawyers is Michael Hancock of the Farmworkers Justice Fund. In
litigating against U.S. Sugar over the years, his goal was to bring the company
to the table, not to its knees. That's what happened. Of U.S. Sugar's recent
conversion -- better wages, fairer work rules, new health, safety and education
programs -- Hancock said: The company "has demonstrated courageous leadership in
making these decisions."

This is a lawyer who has seen the worst coming out of boardrooms. It is to his
credit that he can now praise his former adversary and leave behind the
bitterness of conflict and confrontation to make common bond. How often does
that happen, short of a court ordering it?

Fairbanks of U.S. Sugar, a trim, physically fit man who looks as if he goes
light on his own product, came to Washington to join Hancock to announce the new
era of cooperation. He traced the change to a moment of corporate introspection
a few years ago: "We started looking at ourselves and said maybe there are some
areas where we ought to try to improve. . . . We said to the [farmworker]
advocates, 'We want to be good employers. Why don't we try to resolve some of
these disputes? We give some and you give some and we work cooperatively.' "

In the history of agricultural labor-management relations, the professional
consciences of chief executives have rarely stirred on behalf of workers. In
"The Corporate Reapers: The Book of Agribusiness," published earlier this year,
A.V. Krebs argues that "American agriculture has been characterized by a
continual restructuring of a rural society aimed not toward meeting its own
worthwhile community needs but rather at satisfying the needs of remote and
self-serving 'communities of economic interests.' "

U.S. Sugar, the cutter of cane, has cut its ties with that ethic. Take it from
the farmworkers' lawyers: It's more than sweet talk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              131 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    February 19, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

The Ban Makes No Sense

Dinah Wiley, Philip Fornaci

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 776 words


Since 1987, the United States has barred people infected with HIV from entering
this country or from establishing legal permanent residency ("green card")
status. The decision to exclude people with HIV was initiated not by public
health authorities, who universally condemn the exclusion, but by right-wing
Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.).

This week, while a new administration tries to return this issue to the
authority of public health officials, the Senate has again intervened with a
shameful display of ignorance and prejudice. Yesterday the Senate passed an
amendment to the appropriations bill for the National Institutes of Health
maintaining the immigration ban.

Under the terms of the 1990 act, Congress directed the secretary of health and
human services to determine which medical conditions, if any, would be
considered "communicable diseases of public health significance" and therefore
grounds of exclusion for immigration purposes. The secretary, Louis Sullivan,
announced on June 1, 1991, that HIV would not be included in such a list.
However, under political pressure from the Bush White House, Sullivan was forced
to reverse his position, and the exclusion of people with HIV remained intact.

At Whitman-Walker Clinic Legal Services Department, we assist many of the
foreign-born whose lives are affected by the HIV exclusion law. They are mainly
immigrants already living here who are seeking permanent residency status. They
are people who have American spouses and children, or who have job skills that
are needed by employers in our economy. These immigrants are denied their green
cards simply because they are HIV-positive, despite having lived, worked, and
paid taxes in this country for many years.

Our client "Sara," from a South American country, came to the United States as a
student and then married an American citizen, with whom she has citizen children
to support. Because of the HIV immigration ban, our government has denied her
permanent residency and permission to work. Another client, "David," from a
Southeast Asian country, has been living and working in the United States for
nearly two decades. When he sought green card status, however, the government
denied his request and took away his work permit simply because he tested
HIV-positive.

David and Sara, like most of the immigrants punished by this law, became
infected with HIV while living in the United States. They are not bringing HIV
into our country; they are already a part of our country. Most people in this
situation are healthy and have employer-provided health insurance. Some will be
productive for many years, and some may never become ill.

Proponents of the exclusion argue that people with HIV will be a drain on the
already strained U.S. health care system. But the United States does not exclude
aliens with other expensive medical conditions that require treatment, such as
cancer, chronic hepatitis or heart disease. Because all applicants for
immigration must satisfy the INS that they are "not likely to become a public
charge," it is clear that fear of potential medical expenses is not the primary
reason for excluding only people with HIV. The immigration exclusion is purely
an act of discrimination against people with HIV, motivated by the same forces
of ignorance and fear that inspire acts of discrimination against all people
with HIV, citizen and non-citizen alike.

The HIV exclusion has left many of our clients with a tragic choice. They can
leave America, their families, their friends and their jobs and return to their
home countries, subject to social stigma and inferior or nonexistent medical
care. Or they can stay here and live underground, without legal status or
permission to work, reluctant to seek the HIV treatment and services they need.

This week, under instructions from President Clinton, Secretary of HHS Donna
Shalala was expected to reverse the ban and remove HIV from the list of
excludable medical conditions for immigration purposes. The president's approach
is rational and humane. The Senate's action yesterday is an attempt to usurp the
new administration's public health authority. If the House of Representatives
does not erase the Senate amendment from the NIH bill (and the bill survives a
presidential veto), even more HIV-positive aliens will be driven underground.
Without documents and fearful of deportation, they will refuse the education,
treatment and services offerred by clinics like Whitman-Walker, which will
result in unnecessary suffering and deaths. Dinah Wiley is director of legal
services and Philip Fornaci is staff attorney at the Whitman-Walker Clinic.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              132 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 20, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

...And Immigration

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A20

LENGTH: 393 words


THE SENATE has voted decisively to foreclose President Clinton's options in
dealing with entry into the United States of people infected by the virus that
causes AIDS. During the campaign, the president had promised to lift regulations
that now keep out HIV-positive immigrants and visitors. To prevent that, the
Senate on Thursday, by a vote of 76-23, approved an amendment to a National
Institutes of Health authorization bill offered by Sen. Don Nickles (R-Okla.)
that would allow waivers for visitors with HIV to enter the country temporarily,
but would continue the ban for immigrants and refugees, who are admitted for
permanent residence.

The different treatment accorded visitors and immigrants reflects current
medical opinion that AIDS, which is not casually transmitted, is not a danger to
public health in this country. While some senators continue to argue this point,
most of those who voted to keep the ban expressed concern about the cost of
caring for AIDS patients. This is not a frivolous question, because caring for
AIDS patients is expensive. Estimates begin at about $ 100,000 each, and the
cost is increasingly being borne by the taxpayers. Even Sen. Edward Kennedy, the
leading opponent of Thursday's decision, acknowledges that cost is a legitimate
issue that ought to be examined. He would have continued the ban for 90 days so
that a study could be done, but would have allowed the president to make a final
decision after that. The strong vote for the Nickles amendment indicates,
however, that while senators do want to get the facts, they want Congress, and
not the president acting alone, to make any decisions on lifting the ban.

If the House accepts the Senate language, the ban should be treated as a
moratorium, not a permanent restriction. In six months, the president will have
to submit information on the cost of admitting HIV immigrants and refugees, an
estimate of those likely to seek entry into the United States and a report on
the feasibility, in the absence of an AIDS test, of enforcing that part of the
immigration law that bars persons likely to become public charges. Once this
information is at hand, Congress should reconsider the restriction. Meanwhile,
waivers still available for the unification of families, the protection of
refugees and other humanitarian reasons should be granted.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              133 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 12, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

Haiti Detains Military Deserter Headed for U.S.;
Action Seen as Serious Challenge to Clinton's Attempt to Curb Flow of Boat
People

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 427 words


A Haitian military deserter granted refugee status by the U.S. Embassy in
Port-au-Prince was picked up and jailed by Haitian authorities yesterday shortly
before he was to fly to the United States, a State Department official said.

The detention of the former soldier poses a serious challenge to President
Clinton's efforts to stanch the flow of Haitian boat people by trying to make
refugee processing safer for Haitians who seek it. Clinton has said he would
reduce the inducements Haitians feel to flee their country as they did in the
massive flotillas of boat people following the military coup that ousted
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the country's first elected president, in September
1991.

According to a source with direct knowledge of yesterday's detention, the man
was at the airport being processed to board a plane to Miami when someone
recognized him as a deserter and authorities detained him. The ranking U.S.
diplomat in Haiti, Leslie Alexander, filed a formal protest with Haitian
authorities about the incident.

In Washington, meanwhile, Secretary of State Warren Christopher yesterday
announced appointment of a special adviser on Haiti, former ambassador to
Nicaragua Lawrence Pelluzzo, to help resolve the island nation's continuing
political crisis. To facilitate the processing of refugee claims, Clinton said
earlier this year he would send U.S. Embassy officials into the countryside to
handle the claims, rather than make asylum seekers go the embassy in
Port-au-Prince and risk exposure. He also said he would reduce the time it takes
to make a determination of immigration status, thereby hoping to make it less
dangerous for Haitians to go through in-country processing.

But the new procedures for in-country processing have not yet been implemented,
refugee advocates say. "This is an astounding illustration of the inadequacies
of in-country processing," said Arthur Helton, director of the refugee project
for the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Jocelyn McCalla, executive director of the New York-based National Coalition for
Haitian Refugees, said, "It basically demonstrates that the process is far from
secure."

Because of Haiti's continuing political turmoil, in-country processing has not
been made as routine as it normally is in other countries, said Kay Bellor,
acting director of the immigration and refugee program for the Church World
Services, which was to resettle the refugee who was detained.

"Basically, adequate security measures haven't been negotiated with the
government," Bellor said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              134 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 11, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

International Arrivals

James T. Yenckel

SECTION: SUNDAY TRAVEL; PAGE E2

LENGTH: 356 words


On April 30, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service will begin a
six-month test of an experimental program aimed at speeding frequent business
travelers through international arrivals at JFK and Newark international
airports.

The program -- utilizing a device to scan hand measurements -- is open to
citizens of the United States, Canada and 22 other countries who enter the
United States from abroad three or more times a year.

If the test results are favorable, the program could be expanded to other
international U.S. airports, according to INS spokesman Verne Jervis.

Called INSPASS (for INS Passenger Accelerated Service System), the new system is
expected to substantially cut processing time for international arrivals.

About 50,000 business travelers are being sought to take part in the test. They
will be issued a wallet-size card encoded with personal identification data and
hand measurements.

When arriving from abroad at either airport, they will slip the ID card through
an automatic reader and put one hand into the scanning device. If the card and
hand data match, the travelers automatically will be cleared through immigration
formalities.

The arrivals check could take as little as six seconds and usually no more than
30 seconds. Normally, INS agents require at least 60 seconds to complete the
arrival check for U.S. citizens, and longer for citizens of foreign countries.

The initial INSPASS application procedure is expected to take about 10 minutes,
and a card will be issued on the spot.

Travelers headed abroad can sign up before departure at INS offices at the
International Arrivals Building at JFK and the Terminal B International Arrivals
Greeting Zone at Newark Airport.

The program is open to frequent business travelers from Andorra, Austria,
Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Italy,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, San
Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.

All participants must possess a passport, and non-U.S. citizens will need visas,
if required.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              135 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 15, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

Nature's Wrath Robs Family of a Long-Sought Reunion

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 995 words


The tree fell on the northbound Toyota Celica just as Ana Edith Gonzales was
leaning back to put eyedrops in her eyes, at last following the advice of her
husband, Arcadio de Jesus. "Stop rubbing your eyes. You're going to damage
them," he had told her when they got the good news at the immigration lawyer's
office earlier, and now again, as they rode through the violent thunderstorm on
17th Street NW.

Arcadio de Jesus Gonzales said the branch that crashed through the passenger
side of the Celica Wednesday had a thick elbow, almost two feet in diameter. Ana
Gonzales, about to ease the effects of her allergy to tree pollen, was struck on
the right side of the head by the thick branch as she sat in the front passenger
seat.

"Cayo, Cayo," he heard her say, calling him by his nickmane. "I'm dying."

Those were her last words. In the three days since this act of God struck on a
tree-lined block in Mount Pleasant, the 32-year-old Gonzales has measured the
dimensions of the tragedy in ways large and small. He remembered rushing her
through a store on Mount Pleasant Street as the storm brewed; he remembered
deciding at the last minute not to take 16th Street north; he wondered what
would have happened if they had had time to buy the plane tickets; and he
wondered whether his wife's shoes -- she loved shoes -- will fit his 13-year-old
daughter.

"When the time comes, what can you do?" Gonzales, a Salvadoran immigrant, said
yesterday in his Silver Spring apartment, where his wife's relatives sat quietly
in mourning. "What is most moving is the wish she had to see her children, to be
with her children."

The accident occurred four days before Ana Gonzales was to board a plane to San
Salvador, a mission that would have reunited her with her children, ages 13, 12
and 9, after a six-year absence. The mother had a May 24 appointment at the
American consulate in San Salvador, where she and the children were to receive
permanent visas before returning to a new life in Silver Spring, said Felix
Toledo, an immigration lawyer with the legal clinic Ayuda Inc.

To Salvadorans, many of whom live in immigration limbo for years while petitions
to bring relatives here move through the system, the granting of a visa is
tantamount to a new lease on life. In this case, Gonzales said, it was the
triumph he and his wife had been seeking since he left a remote hamlet in
eastern El Salvador in 1985, crossing illegally into the United States and then
joining his parents in the Washington area.

Ana Gonzales followed seven months later, and over the years her husband
obtained legal residency and then began the process of applying for his wife and
children. "They were going to become permanent residents," said Toledo, who had
known Arcadio Gonzales for years and had met with the couple an hour before the
accident. "This is a great tragedy."

The couple sometimes worked several jobs at once -- she had a work permit and
was employed at a Chinese carryout, he at Nordstrom's in Montgomery Mall -- and
together they sent $ 200 a month to support the three children, who were being
reared by their maternal grandparents.

Planning for the trip began weeks ago. Ana Gonzales had two suitcases full of
gifts, and one of the last tasks was visting Toledo. Wednesday at 4 p.m.,
Arcadio Gonzales picked up his wife at the carryout near the Silver Spring Metro
station, and the two returned to their apartment to pick up the $ 2,500 for the
plane tickets. From there, they went to Ayuda's offices on Columbia Road NW,
where they went over the paperwork with Toledo.

With a friend, Reina Castillo, the couple stopped at a supermarket on Mount
Pleasant Street and hurried through the aisles, aware of the impending storm. It
was shortly after they left, as Gonzales was driving north on 17th Street, that
the towering oak crashed into the car.

"It was as if the tree had been waiting to fall on top of the car," said
Gonzales, who escaped with a bump on the head and cuts on his hands and arms.
Castillo, trapped in the seat, also escaped serious injury. All three were taken
to Washington Hospital Center, where Ana Gonzales was pronounced dead.

To compound the tragedy, the family discovered Thursday that the $ 2,500 in Ana
Gonzales's purse and four grocery bags apparently had been stolen from the car
overnight. Police said that officers guarded the car for several hours and that
no valuables or identification were found when it was searched, as is routine
after an accident.

But relatives of Ana Gonzales, including her three brothers, on Thursday found
the purse between the two front seats and recovered passports, birth
certificates and income tax forms, all ruined by the rain. Missing were
Gonzales's handbag and four of the six grocery bags.

The account of the relatives was bolstered by Katherine Canfield, whose house is
near the scene of the accident. At 3 a.m. Thursday, Canfield said, she saw a man
rifling through the car and taking what appeared to be money from a wallet. She
also was present when the relatives removed belongings from the car. A police
spokeswoman yesterday said the matter is now under review.

Canfield, who has gotten calls from people wanting to help, has established the
Ana Gonzales Memorial Fund at Crestar Bank, 1800 Columbia Rd. NW, Washington,
D.C. 20009. Donations can be made at any bank branch. "Maybe this will restore
some faith in mankind," Canfield said, alluding to the theft.

Ana Gonzales will be buried in El Salvador, and Arcadio Gonzales is planning to
bring the children back here. The news of the death was delivered there by a
relative who lives in the city of San Miguel and traveled an hour and a half to
the hamlet, La Estrechura. Gonzales has not been able to speak with his children
-- there is no telephone there -- but a cassette tape recorded by them arrived
Thursday morning.

"We know you from pictures," the son says to the mother. "We want to meet you in
person."


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ARCADIO DE JESUS GONZALES.

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              136 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 26, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

57 Illegal Chinese Found in Jersey City

Malcolm Gladwell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, May 25, 1993


Police and telephone inspectors checking a suspicious phone bill Monday stumbled
across 57 illegal Chinese immigrants being held captive in an auto body shop in
Jersey City, N.J.

The young men, who had no money or identification papers, told Jersey City
police that they were smuggled from China by an immigration ring and were being
held in the padlocked, two-story building until relatives and friends could pay
a $ 25,000 ransom for each. Police said the men appeared to have been detained
for at least 10 days.

All 57 and four other men thought by police to be guarding the group are in the
custody of the Newark office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"It is one of those buildings with steel curtain doors with padlocks on it,"
said Detective Dennis O'Connell of the Jersey City East District, one of the
officers who discovered the group. "There is no way any of them could have
gotten out. If there had been a fire, they were cooked."

Authorities said the group was discovered because two telephones had been
installed on the shop's second floor within the last few weeks, during which
time more than $ 3,000 worth of calls to China had been made, including 300
calls over a two-day period last week.

New Jersey Bell inspectors alerted police Friday and went to the building Monday
while a call was in progress, authorities said. On arrival, however, they
realized that whoever was making the call was clearly locked inside.

"I climbed onto the roof and found a window covered with something like heavy
linoleum," O'Connell said. "I expected to see two or three people, but when I
tore away the tarp I saw 61."

O'Connell said the men appeared healthy and that the room was clean, with two
bathrooms, a stove, two 100-pound bags of rice and mattresses on the lower
levels. He said four of the men were bigger than the others and appeared to be
enforcers, carrying American money and cigarettes and wearing distinctive
tattoos.

O'Connell said the men told authorities that a van carrying food arrived every
day at 6 p.m.

Chip Bogdanski, an INS spokesman in Newark, said five of the group were
juveniles, a few appeared to be in their late thirties and the rest were in
their twenties. "We're trying to find out what their status is and what their
purpose is here," he said.

Police said the captives told them that they had been taken by boat from China
to Guatemala and then overland across Mexico into the United States. How long
they had been held in Jersey City was unclear, police said, although the
building's landlord said someone rented it April 15 after claiming to want to
store dry goods and food.

In San Francisco, a daring attempt to slip Chinese immigrants into the country
by dropping them off at night at the foot of the Golden Gate Bridge Monday ended
with 171 ship passengers and 10 crew members headed for jail, the Associated
Press reported.

INS officials were searching for about 70 other passengers who scattered after
leaving the 250-foot cargo ship.

Three Coast Guard cutters caught the ship about 70 miles offshore Monday,
returned it to port and detained the crew, authorities said.

A U.S. Park Police spokesman said the group apparently left China March 30. Most
were in good health but weary and frightened by the day's events, he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHINESE CARGO SHIP, WHICH LANDED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, SITS AT
DOCK IN SAN FRANCISCO AFTER COAST GUARD CUTTERS CAPTURED IT. THE 250-FOOT VESSEL
WAS INVOLVED IN ONE OF TWO INCIDENTS THIS WEEK IN WHICH CHINESE SOUGHT TO SLIP
INTO THE UNITED STATES. REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              137 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    May 29, 1993, Saturday, Capital Edition

Resident Alien Is Deported

From news services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Steven William Dodkin, who has lived in the United States since arriving with
his parents at age seven months, became "a man without a country" when he was
deported this week to Britain, where he has no relatives or friends.

Dodkin, 27, was deported after appearances before U.S. magistrates and judges,
each of whom questioned the government's prosecutorial discretion, and finally
before a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service judge who reluctantly
ordered deportation.

The case stems from Dodkin's two convictions for firearms and drug violations in
the late 1980s. When it was learned that he had never applied for U.S.
citizenship, he was ordered deported last June. Three weeks later, he reentered
the United States through Canada and was arrested.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              138 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 7, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Alien-Smuggling Ship Runs Aground;
Hundreds of Chinese Swim Onto N.Y. Beach;
7 Die in Frigid Ocean

Malcolm Gladwell, Rachel E. Stassen-Berger, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, June 6


Clutching bags of clothing and using plastic jugs as life preservers, hundreds
of illegal Chinese immigrants jumped into the frigid waters of the Atlantic
Ocean early this morning after the freighter smuggling them into the United
States struck a sandbar 200 yards off a Queens beach.

From 2 a.m. until well past dawn, waves of young Chinese, mostly males, swam,
floated and struggled toward the shore in a scene that one police officer
compared to the World War II Normandy landing. At least seven died. Officials
said that 29 were taken to area hospitals suffering from hypothermia and
exhaustion and that 295 were treated and released into the custody of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

This morning's grounding of the Golden Venture, a 150-foot Honduran-registered
freighter, marks the second time the Coast Guard has discovered a cargo ship
carrying illegal Chinese immigrants in the last two weeks. Immigration officials
said they believe that dozens of ships have delivered their human cargo to the
United States from China in the past year as part of a multimillion-dollar
smuggling operation based in Manhattan's Chinatown. The cost of this illegal
passage from China to the United States is $ 25,000 to $ 30,000.

The Golden Venture, which officals said was carrying more than 300 illegal
immigrants, began its journey in Fujian Province 112 days ago, stopping several
times in China and once in Africa before making its way to the New York coast.
Between 2:15 and 2:30 this morning, the Coast Guard station in Boston alerted
the station here that a boat had run aground in the shallow waters off Rockaway
Beach in Queens. Park police spotted people in the water, and by 3 a.m. 52
ambulances, 250 police officers, four helicopters and scores of firefighters had
assembled on the beach to pull terrified and exhausted swimmers from the
53-degree water. Rescue workers brought truckloads of blankets to cover the
survivors, many of whom had stripped down to their underwear for the swim.

"Just as you thought you had a grip on it, there were more people coming out of
the ocean," said Robert Leonard, an emergency medical technician who arrived on
the beach just after 3 a.m.

New York police said they believe that 25 people from the ship managed to reach
the beach and escape capture. Authorities are searching for them.

Leonard said that many of the ship's passengers looked as though they had not
eaten for months and seemed confused and ready to break down at any moment.

"Any kind of sudden movement or loud noise and they snapped," he said.

The dead bodies of two immigrants washed up on the shore around 10 a.m., and two
more were retrieved from the ocean by the Coast Guard. Two others died later of
cardiac arrest in Coney Island Hospital. The circumstances of the seventh death
were not immediately known.

Police said they are investigating whether the ship was deliberately grounded.

The immigrants -- mostly from Fujian, a poor, agrarian province -- had been
well-dressed and seemed prepared for the landing, according to police. Police
and Coast Guard personnel told the passengers in several languages to stay on
the ship and wait to be rescued, but many seemed resolute about leaving the
vessel and swimming to shore. About 100 remained on the ship and were rescued
there.

The immigrants are being held in Manhattan, but many eventually will be moved to
other federal detention centers because New York's center does not have enough
room to hold them all.

"We are reaching around the nation for detention space," Ingham said. Some of
the aliens will be bused to Pennsylvania and Virginia to await processing. The
immigrants will have to prove that they have a right to be in the United States
but will be allowed to apply for political asylum.

The Indonesian captain of the vessel, Amir Humanthal Lumban Tubing, 44, and 10
crew members are in police custody and are scheduled to be charged with
immigration violations in hearings Monday morning, police said.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHINESE ABANDON SHIP AS 112-DAY JOURNEY ENDS 200 YARDS OFF
ROCKAWAY BEACH. AP; MAP JOSEPH ROBINSON

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              139 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 10, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

White House to Obey Order to Admit HIV-Infected Haitians

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A30

LENGTH: 577 words


The White House said yesterday it will comply with a federal judge's order and
admit to the United States the HIV-positive Haitian refugees who have been held
for as long as 20 months at the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The announcement is a step toward ending the state of limbo in which the
beleaguered band of boat people has lived, under U.S. military guard, since
fleeing Haiti after the September 1991 military coup that overthrew Jean
Bertrand-Aristide, Haiti's first elected president.

The State Department's Community Relations Service, which handles refugee
resettlement, yesterday began interviewing the refugees at Guantanamo to
determine if they have relatives in the United States and whether the refugees
can be placed with them, said Ron Tomalis, a spokesman for the program.

Lawyers for the Haitians say about half of the refugees have relatives who are
U.S. residents. Those who cannot be placed with family will be placed through
two charities, Tomalis said. "We're trying to do this as quickly as we can. I
don't expect to have the first flight to come until early next week," he said.

Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. of the Eastern District of New York Tuesday ordered
the release, saying that the medical status of the Haitians does not justify the
"indefinite detention" to which they have been subjected. All of the Guantanamo
Haitians were deemed to have credible claims for political asylum in the United
States, but subsequent medical tests revealed they carry the virus that causes
AIDS, which is among the medical conditions for which immigrants can be
excluded.

In a move that angered Haitian refugee advocates and formed the basis of the
lawsuit settled with Johnson's order, immigration officials put the HIV-positive
refugees through a second, more rigorous test of their asylum eligibility, but
without the benefit of legal counsel that usually is allowed at that stage of
the immigration process.

Johnson ruled that the denial of the right to counsel was illegal, and he
harshly criticized the Bush and Clinton administrations for their handling of
the HIV-positive immigrants.

In her announcement of the White House decision to comply with the court order
yesterday, spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers stressed that the policy toward
HIV-positive Haitians "predated the Clinton administration." She also said the
Justice Department will continue to review Johnson's ruling and possibly appeal.
Such an appeal would not affect the movement of refugees.

Although U.S. law excludes immigrants with communicable diseases such as AIDS,
special "humanitarian paroles" can be granted by the attorney general. Numerous
HIV-positive refugees have been admitted to the United States on that basis in
the last several months.

And yesterday morning, the population at the refugee camp dropped to 142 as 16
of the Guantanamo refugees were flown into the United States, Tomalis said.
Humanitarian parole for the 16 was arranged well before Johnson's ruling.

But it could not be determined whether those refugees were allowed in under
terms of an interim court order Johnson issued in March mandating parole for the
Haitians who become sick with AIDS symptoms. Seven of those brought in yesterday
were children, none of whom were tested for HIV, and nine were HIV-positive
adults, including five women and four men, said Lt. Cmdr. Gordon Hume of the
Navy's Atlantic Command, which is coordinating care of the Haitians.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: June 11, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: The Community Relations Service, which resettles refugees, is part
of the Justice Department, not the State Department, as was incorrectly reported
in an article yesterday.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              140 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 2, 1993, Friday, Final Edition

'Favoritism,' 'Good Old Boy' System Found at INS

Michael Isikoff, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A17; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 540 words


An internal Immigration and Naturalization Service report has harshly criticized
the agency's personnel practices, concluding that "favoritism" and what many
staff members perceive as a "good old boy" system have severely undercut
opportunities for advancement among the INS's 1,700 black employees.

Congressional staffers say the agency may hold the worst record in the federal
government on hiring and promotion of African Americans.  According to INS
figures, there are no blacks among the senior-level officer corps in the agency
and none run any of its 56 district offices. The officer corps includes Border
Patrol and INS agents and immigration examiners and inspectors.

"The service has shown little inclination to effect a real policy of [equal
employment opportunity] for all of its employees," the report read, calling the
agency's affirmative action plan "an empty promise." It continued: "Five years
ago, the service identified African Americans as being underrepresented. Despite
this fact, African Americans are no better situated today within INS. . . . "

The strongly worded report has potentially important implications for the INS as
well as its parent agency, the Justice Department. INS is already facing an
equal opportunity complaint from more than 200 black agents who have charged
discrimination of "epidemic proportions," making it the latest of a number of
Justice Department agencies that have been hit with racial discrimination suits
in recent years.

Although the task force does not identify specific examples of discrimination,
its broad findings appear to provide the plaintiffs with ample ammunition. "It's
Exhibit A in our case against the service," said John Washington, a special
agent in INS's Los Angeles office and a spokesman for the black plaintiffs.
"This is exactly what we've been saying all along -- discrimination exists at
the highest levels of this agency."

"The INS task force report confirmed that for African Americans, the INS is not
an equal opportunity employer," added Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.), chairman
of the House Government Operations Committee, who prodded the INS to release the
report last week and discussed it with Attorney General Janet Reno. "It is
intolerable to exclude African Americans from INS management positions."

INS management said last week it was taking steps to correct the problems,
including preparing a new affirmative action plan with "firm objectives" and
increasing funding for its equal employment opportunity (EEO) program. The
agency also released a recent memo from acting commissioner Chris Sale that
freezes the advertising and filling of all supervisory positions.

Among the report's specific findings was the apparent existence of a "glass
ceiling" that has prevented most black INS employees from ever rising above the
"journeyman" level. More significantly, it found an atmosphere of deep-seated
frustration among most black agents.

In interviews with the task force, a majority of supervisors and employees
identified "favoritism" -- not merit -- as the "determinative factor" in hiring
and promotion. These INS workers perceived the agency as being run by a "good
old boy" system of white males, the report stated.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, BLACKS IN MANAGEMENT AT INS (DATA FROM THIS GRAPHIC WAS
NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              141 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 10, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

Mexico Is Said to Reject Refugees;
More Emigrant Ships May Join Chinese Intercepted by U.S. in Pacific

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 928 words


The fate of 659 Chinese refugees adrift in the Pacific remained unclear early
today amid reports that Mexico had rejected a U.S. request to admit the boat
people and allow the United Nations to process their asylum claims in Mexico.

Rejection would be a setback for President Clinton's new get-tough policy on
illegal Chinese immigrants, and a senior U.S. official involved in negotiations
with the Mexican government said early this morning that the administration had
believed for most of the day yesterday that Mexico would accept the proposal.

This official expressed skepticism at the certainty of the reported rejection,
saying that what might appear to be rejection could in fact be acquiescence.

The Chinese remained aboard three rundown freighters, which the U.S. Coast Guard
had intercepted Tuesday in international waters. U.S. officials said they
expected the small flotilla to rendevous around midnight (EST) 60 miles west of
the Mexican port of Ensenada, which is about 70 miles south of San Diego.

The refugees soon could be joined by others. One Mexican official told reporters
yesterday that at least four additional ships carrying 700 more Chinese were in
the Pacific off the coast of Mexico.

In its statement last night rejecting the U.S. plan, the Mexican Foreign
Ministry said it will seize boats used to smuggle emigrants and "apply the full
weight of the law against the crews and those trafficking in human beings," the
Associated Press reported.

Nevertheless, AP quoted the statement, which was written in Spanish, as saying,
"The government of Mexico . . . is not able to accept the proposal of the United
States government." It did not elaborate.

Although Mexican Navy ships will not heed the U.S. request to detain the boats
in international waters, a Mexican government official said they also will not
prevent the suspected smuggling vessels from entering Mexican waters, the Los
Angeles Times reported early today.

The newspaper said this response leaves the fate of the Chinese immigrants --
and of the proposed cooperative action by the United States and Mexico --
unresolved. It was unclear whether the Mexican government's decision meant that
the U.S. Coast Guard would have to escort the ships into Mexican waters to carry
out the administration's plan to have asylum claims processed in Mexico.

The United States was "prepared to assist the government of Mexico in the cost
of. . . repatriations" of those determined not eligible for asylum, State
Department spokesman Joe Snyder said yesterday.

But U.S. officials seemed uncertain whether any refugees whose asylum claims
were deemed legitimate would be permitted U.S. entry. "We'd have to see. . . our
experience on similar cases," Snyder said. "And, of course, we don't want to
prejudge them, but our experience in similar cases has been that there. . .
haven't been many."

Asked why Mexico should accept U.S.-bound Chinese diverted by the Coast Guard in
international waters, Snyder said, "Because they were interdicted in waters that
were closest to Mexico." He said that processing in Mexico was "likely to be
quicker and more efficient." Once an immigrant reaches U.S. territory, he can
pursue numerous legal appeals and delays of deportation.

Vice President Gore, who has been overseeing the situation in President
Clinton's absence, told reporters yesterday that the administration's position
was in keeping with its policy to have "a no-nonsense response to this wave of
criminal smuggling of illegal immigrants into the United States."

"They'll be given careful attention according to the law," Gore said, and "those
who do not have legitimate requests, and historically that has been the vast
majority in these cases, will be returned directly to China."

After a ship carrying more than 300 Chinese ran aground off New York City early
last month, the administration announced a new policy for dealing with a wave of
smuggled Chinese immigrants. It included the interdiction and redirection of
smuggling ships in transit, expediting the processing of asylum claims and
repatriation of those whose claims are found invalid.

The new policy also called for the State Department to approach "flag states of
smuggling vessels to secure cooperation in punishing smugglers" and "arranging
for the disposition of migrants." But U.S. officials said yesterday they still
were unable to determine the flag or flags under which the three ships were
operating.

Although countless Mexicans and other Latin Americans daily cross into the
United States illegally, Mexico has its own illegal immigration problem along
its southern border, including an estimated 50,000 Guatemalan war refugees
living in the southern part of the country.

Sociology Prof. Heinz Dieterich, in Mexico City, said a "normal backlash" could
be expected in Mexico for any group of foreigners perceived by poor Mexicans as
posing competition for jobs or other economic resources.

"They may well think, 'We have so much unemployment and so little money, why do
we have to accept them when the United States is better able to absorb them?' "
Dieterich said. However, if the Chinese were accepted on a temporary basis
before moving elsewhere, "the Mexicans probably would view it as a necessary
humanitarian measure," he added.

Mexico faced a similar problem last April and May when a boatload of 306 Chinese
refugees arrived at Ensenada. Most of those refugees later were deported.

Staff writers Ann Devroy in Washington and Tod Robberson in Mexico City
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, BRAD WYE

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              142 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 13, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

Accord Near on Chinese Migrants;
Most Aboard 3 Ships Will Be Sent Home, U.S. Officials Predict

William Claiborne, Ann Devroy, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 758 words


More than 650 Chinese migrants aboard three decrepit fishing vessels off the
Pacific coast of Mexico remained in diplomatic limbo yesterday as U.S. officials
worked to close an extraordinary agreement with Mexico under which the two
nations would cooperate in determining the migrants' future.

While sanitary conditions aboard the three ships worsened and tensions among the
passengers and crews were said to be rising, administration sources said U.S.
and Mexican diplomats were putting the "finishing touches" on a compromise
agreement aimed at ending the weeklong incident.

Under the proposed accord, U.S. officials would obtain "biographical
information" from the migrants and make arrangements for the swift return to
China of those not deemed eligible for asylum in the United States. In return,
the Mexicans would accept the migrants on their territory for return to China
and seek United Nations assistance in determining their status under
international law.

U.S. officials predicted that most, if not all, the passengers would be returned
to China, doubting that more than a few could make the case that they face
political persecution if returned there. U.S. authorities appear determined to
enforce new, more stringent immigration rules intended to discourage Chinese
gangs involved in a growing trade of smuggling human cargo to the United States
for immense profit.

An administration official said the two sides were discussing the details of the
agreement and an announcement could be made as early as today.

However, a senior official of the Mexican Foreign Ministry said yesterday that
although his country continues to exchange views with the United States on the
migrants, Mexico adamantly insists that the United States accept responsibility
for the boats without shunting the problem onto Mexico.

"This is not Mexico's problem," the official told reporters. "This is a problem
that originated with the United States because the boats were not destined for
Mexico but for the United States."

U.S. officials have begun administering questionnaires to the Chinese passengers
as the U.S. Coast Guard continues to ferry food and emergency supplies to the
three ships, which have been detained 60 miles west of Ensenada, Mexico,
officials said.

Under the proposed agreement, the completed questionnaires and other screening
documents would be turned over to Mexican authorities for accelerated processing
by Mexican or U.N. officials.

The United States has been negotiating the fate of the migrants since Wednesday
and found itself in a stalemate Friday when the Mexican government turned down a
U.S. request that the migrants be taken to a Mexican port and repatriated. The
United States offered to help defray the costs of processing the migrants and
sending them back to China.

The request was aimed at keeping the migrants out of U.S. territory because
their appeals for political asylum would take longer, cost more in detention
expenses and probably result in greater leniency here than in Mexico, officials
said.

A U.S. interagency task force had recommended that the U.N. High Commissioner
for Refugees be asked to determine the migrants' asylum status, but officials of
that office said yesterday the world body would not become involved until the
government in charge of the migrants made a formal request.

"We don't look at this as a refugee situation. We look at them as economic
immigrants. We don't want to play into the hands of the smugglers," a U.N.
official said.

The United States, an official said, wants the migrants to be processed by
another country or entity to send a strong signal to the smugglers that the
Clinton administration will put up resistance against any migrants ferried by
the smugglers being considered for entry into the United States.

Meanwhile, U.S. Coast Guard officials and a passenger airlifted from one of the
vessels said sanitary conditions on the crowded ships were deteriorating despite
the efforts of crews on Coast Guard ships to provide food and emergency medical
assistance.

Petty Officer Scott Eriksen told a pool of reporters at the scene that
passengers are "packed tighter than most people could ever think possible.
There's a very bad smell."

One passenger, Zhou Shiyun, 19, who was airlifted from one of the vessels Sunday
and underwent surgery to terminate an abnormal three-month pregnancy, told the
San Diego Herald-Tribune she would kill herself if sent back to China.

Correspondent Tod Robberson in Mexico City contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, COAST GUARD AGENT TOSSES BLANKETS TO CHINESE ON THE SING LI, A
SMUGGLERS' SHIP OFF THE COAST OF MEXICO. REUTER

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              143 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 14, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

Diplomatic Mishaps Set U.S. Migrant Policy Adrift

Ann Devroy, Daniel Williams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A17

LENGTH: 815 words


A new, tough policy designed by the Clinton administration to deter the influx
of Chinese refugees by sea has run into a tangle of diplomatic misadventures
with Mexico that has left more than 650 Chinese migrants and the policy itself
in precarious condition.

Administration officials said yesterday that talks with the Mexican government
over the fate of the migrants, still afloat off Mexico's Pacific coast, are on
hold.

Twice in the past week, U.S. officials had reported the negotiations were near
conclusion on a plan to process the migrants in Mexico and return most of them
swiftly to China. But the discussions appeared to have broken down after Mexican
officials complained that the United States seemed to be taking their
cooperation for granted.

U.S. officials suggested yesterday that the diplomatic impasse cannot last much
longer, considering what one called "the absolutely deplorable" conditions
aboard the three ships carrying the Chinese.

The story of the Chinese migrants has highlighted the difficulties of
implementing what President Clinton declared in a Rose Garden ceremony on June
18 would be a new strategy to end the "transport in human cargo and traffic in
human misery" being conducted by organized crime rings smuggling Chinese into
the United States. A key element of that policy was expanded Coast Guard
authority to board suspected smuggling ships in international waters and arrange
for the speedy processing and return to China of the migrants.

The policy's first major test -- the boarding of the three ships eight days ago
-- has run into the hard reality that no broad understanding was reached
beforehand with Mexico.

U.S. officials have sought to have the migrants processed in Mexico, either
under Mexican law or international law, believing that more of them would thus
be returned to China -- and more swiftly -- than if they were brought to U.S.
territory. U.S. immigration law is more lenient, particularly toward the
Chinese.

In 1990, the Bush administration issued an executive order expanding the
definition of political persecution to those who could show adverse effect from
forced family-planning policies. Immigration lawyers said that allowed far more
Chinese to be granted political asylum than is usual, a fact that encouraged
illegal Chinese immigration and facilitated organized crime efforts to bring
Chinese migrants here.

The example being made of the three shiploads of Chinese is intended to send a
stern message to other potential refugees thinking of making the arduous
journey. "We are trying to say to them: 'Don't come. You won't even make it to
American shores. You'll end up in Mexico or some other place, but not here,' " a
State Department official said.

But the handling of the Chinese migrants went diplomatically awry almost from
the outset. Mexican sensibilities, easily ruffled over immigration matters, were
particularly offended by the apparent confidence expressed by U.S. officials in
news stories that the government of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari would go
along with the U.S. plan.

An account of the plan to have the migrants processed in Mexico was published
last Friday in The Washington Post and reached Mexico City before the U.S.
ambassador to Mexico, John D. Negroponte, made an official request. On Saturday,
the Mexican Foreign Ministry sent a rejection note to Negroponte.

On Monday, Alex Watson, the State Department's assistant secretary for
inter-American affairs, visited Mexico City and tried to persuade Mexico to
accept the boatloads. He was rebuffed.

Mexican officials say they are unwilling to perform the task of processing the
Chinese, even if Washington follows through on offers to cover all costs,
arrange for interpreters, handle the completion of biographical questionnaires
and plan the transport back to China for those not eligible for asylum.

Given its frequent disputes over the treatment of Mexican migrants in the United
States, "Mexico, of all countries, was not the one to choose to do this favor,"
said a Mexican official.

Yesterday, the Clinton administration attempted to impose a "news blackout" on
further information about the plight of the Chinese migrants, halting visits by
reporters to the ships and declining to discuss the status of any negotiations.

While Mexican officials said emphatically the talks were over, a senior U.S.
official said Mexico and the United States "have a history of working in
cooperation" and the three Chinese ships "are an example not of a policy gone
bad but of a policy for which a process is being worked out."

Another official said: "The president announced the policy only three weeks ago.
It is difficult to overestimate the logistical challenge this involved, the
range of problems that have to be solved. It is unreasonable to expect something
as complex as this to be a 48-hour operation."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              144 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 15, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S., Mexico End Impasse On Chinese;
Migrants on Ships Will Be Sent Home

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1121 words


The Mexican government announced yesterday that it will allow three vessels
carrying more than 650 Chinese migrants to enter the country for immediate
repatriation to their homeland, breaking an embarrassing diplomatic impasse with
the United States.

Mexico's undersecretary for foreign relations, Andres Rozental, said at a news
conference in Mexico City that his government was making a "humanitarian
gesture" and was not accepting a U.S. offer to pay the costs of sending the
Chinese migrants home. "None of the illegal immigrants will remain in Mexico,"
Rozental said. "Repatriation will proceed immediately."

He did not say when or where the smuggling vessels, which have been sitting
about 60 miles west of the Mexican port of Ensenada, were expected to enter
Mexico's territorial waters.

Mexico's action brought to a close a week of occasionally tense U.S.-Mexican
exchanges over what to do with the ships, which were intercepted July 6 by the
U.S. Coast Guard as part of a toughened American effort to stem trafficking in
Chinese migrants by organized crime syndicates. U.S. officials wanted to avoid
allowing the migrants on American territory, where they could apply for
political asylum and remain here through protracted court proceedings.

But Mexico rejected a U.S. request to grant temporary asylum to the migrants,
even after Washington offered to pay the costs of repatriating the Chinese. The
offer appeared to insult the Mexicans, who issued a warning Monday that the
migrant ships would be turned away from Mexican territorial waters.

The breakthrough in the international drama, during which U.S. Coast Guard
cutters circled the decrepit migrant ships as their passengers sweltered in
worsening sanitary conditions, came after Vice President Gore telephoned Mexican
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari Tuesday night to smooth the diplomatic
waters.

A senior administration official said Gore had been assigned to call Salinas to
"offer reassurances that the United States was not trying to impose its
policies" on the Mexican government.

Gore also told Salinas the administration would set up a series of meetings to
attempt to work out a broader solution to the boatloads of Chinese migrants who
continue to arrive in the Pacific near the Mexican and U.S. coasts. The official
said the administration had "irritated" the Mexican government in its handling
of the incident and is now working to improve relations.

The White House issued a statement welcoming the Mexican announcement but had no
other official comment.

Mexican officials denied caving in to pressure from Washington. "It's a shame to
say it, but the United States refused to let these people in, and if we don't
they will die," Rozental said in a telephone interview.

Rozental said the Chinese will be deported as soon as possible and no requests
for asylum will be considered. "They wanted to go to the United States. We don't
want people coming here thinking they can use Mexico as a platform," Rozental
said.

"I don't think this is the last time such a thing will happen," he added. He
said that U.S. immigration officials are scheduled to arrive in Mexico City
today to discuss the issue.

International human rights organizations demanded yesterday that the Clinton
administration, before taking steps to send any more Chinese migrants home
against their will, check out reports that 524 boat people who were repatriated
to China earlier this year were jailed or otherwise persecuted.

The human rights advocates said the 659 involved in the Mexico case -- or any
other migrants -- should not be returned to China against their will unless U.S.
officials establish that no harm befell the earlier migrants. Those Chinese,
whose Panamanian-registered freighter, the East Wood, was intercepted in the
South Pacific, were detained for almost three weeks in the Marshall Islands last
spring in a form of diplomatic limbo strikingly similar to the current case.

The Asia Watch human rights monitoring group said it has not received an answer
to its month-old appeal for information on the fate of the migrants who were
forcibly returned in March.

"The State Department should make some attempt to find out what happened to
those people," a spokesman for Asia Watch said. Similarly, William Frelick,
senior policy analyst for the U.S. Committee for Refugees, said no Chinese
migrants should be forcibly repatriated before it is known what happened to
those returned previously.

A State Department official said that a diplomat from the U.S. Consulate in
Guangzhou has interviewed several of the East Wood passengers, who said they had
not heard of any of the returned migrants being jailed or persecuted except for
a few who were detained because of prior criminal activities.

The consular official reported that some of the "repeat offenders" aboard the
East Wood were fined the equivalent of $ 1,200 for illegal emigration and some
migrants were ordered to attend one- or two-day "reeducation" courses, which the
State Department official likened to a driver's education class.

Frelick dismissed the State Department's explanation, saying that the embassy's
investigation was cursory and that continuing reports of long prison sentences
handed out to the migrants should be more thoroughly investigated.

"It's ironic that the State Department, which has been so careful about the
repatriation of Vietnamese boat people to Vietnam . . .is making assumptions
about the treatment of the Chinese when it really doesn't know what's happening
to these people," Frelick said.

The misadventures of the East Wood passengers, who had paid up to $ 30,000 each
to criminal syndicates to smuggle them to the United States, began on Dec. 27
when the 310-foot ship set sail from Hong Kong. In late January, the vessel's
generators failed 1,500 miles east of Honolulu, and the ship was eventually
towed by the U.S. Coast Guard to Kwajalein Island in the Marshall Islands, which
are a self-governing U.S. protectorate.

The U.S. government housed the migrants on a military base while officials of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees conducted interviews with
selected passengers to determine whether they had legitimate claims for asylum
or were "economic refugees."

On March 6, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the U.N. agency
concluded that the "evidence overwhelmingly pointed to a case of trafficking in
human beings for profit" and the migrants did not have legitimate appeals for
asylum. Shortly afterward, the International Organization for Migration arranged
to fly the passengers in four charter planes to China.

Staff writers Daniel Williams and Ann Devroy contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, VICE PRESIDENT ALBERT GORE JR.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              145 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 29, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

Closing the Golden Door

George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


"Nativism," a noun denoting some nasty history, is now an epithet distorting
debate about this nation's policy regarding immigration.

Nativism, meaning irrational and mean-spirited partiality toward native-born
people and hostility toward immigrants, is as old as the Republic. Before the
end of the 18th century, German immigrants were stigmatized as an unassimilable
ethnic group because of their language and Catholicism. Religious and racial
prejudice greeted, among others, Irish immigrants on the East Coast and Chinese
on the West Coast.

But xenophobia and greediness -- the desire to slam shut the golden door -- do
not explain all or even most of today's opposition to current immigration
policies, particularly here. America is, as the Economist says, "the only
first-world country that shares a 2,000-mile border with the third world ...
dirt roads up against bright lights." And the most luring lights are those of
Southern California.

In the 1980s about 9 million people immigrated to the United States legally,
another 2 million illegally. Today one-third of all immigrants come to
California, where the population, currently 31.5 million, rose by 570,000 last
year and is expected to rise another 600,000 this year. Most of the growth is
from immigration from Mexico, Central America and Asia, or from births to recent
immigrants.

Concern about immigration is approaching monomania in this state where the
recession has approached the depths of a depression. Here, as elsewhere,
immigration is discussed first, and too much, as an economic issue.

The argument about immigration -- what kind of people should come, and in what
quantities -- is actually two arguments. One is economic, but the more important
and interesting one is cultural.

The economic argument concerns immigration's costs. Is immigration economically
injurious? Or do immigrants constitute a net addition to the nation's wealth --
if not immediately and in every location, at least over time and to society
generally?

Resolution of this argument requires complex calculations that quantify, among
many other variables, the economic value of the infusion of entrepreneurial
energy from those who travel sometimes 10,000 miles in search of entry-level
American jobs. Such industrious immigrants may, or may not, have a depressing
effect on some American wages; if so, that may, or may not, make American
industry more suited to an increasingly competitive global economy.

Many immigrants, particularly very new ones, cost more in welfare, health and
educational services than they pay in taxes. (All immigrants pay sales taxes;
many pay income taxes.) However, their economic activity -- earning and spending
-- makes them, I believe, substantial net contributors to national wealth.
(Twenty-five percent of immigrants in the 1980s had college degrees.) But that
positive economic fact does not settle the argument about the net effect of, and
proper policy concerning, immigration.

The cultural argument about immigration begins with this fact: Immigration at
the end of this century occurs in a social context different in two crucial ways
from the context at the beginning of the century.

Today immigrants are received into a welfare culture that encourages an
entitlement mentality. That mentality weakens the mainspring of individual
striving for upward mobility. A generous welfare state such as the United
States, and California especially, can be a "magnet" for migrants. To the extent
that the welfare culture has such enervating effects, the argument for
immigration as a source of social invigoration fails.

The second difference in the context of immigration, another difference that
makes problematic the tradition of liberality regarding immigration, is the
weakening of the ideal of assimilation. But it is unclear the extent to which
immigrants themselves are hostile to or even ambivalent about assimilation.

The anti-assimilationist impulse may emanate primarily from those native-born
intellectuals who believe America is a sick, racist, sexist, exploitative,
oppressive, patriarchal etc. society into which no self-respecting person would
wish to assimilate. Furthermore, say some intellectuals, "diversity" is an
inherent good: the more the better because it is good to weaken a sick
community's sense of community. In addition, individual "authenticity" requires
adherence to ethnic identity. And ethnicity should be the basis of a civic life
built around group rights and entitlements. (Here is an immigration policy: For
every 10 immigrants, deport an unhappy tenured professor.)

Such home-grown intellectual fruit can poison the debate about immigration and
perhaps can spoil immigrants. Debate should begin with this premise: America is
not just an economy; it is more than an arena for wealth creation. It is a
culture. The high rate of immigration since 1960, combined with the high
fertility rate of immigrants relative to that of native-born Americans, is
producing rapid change in the nation's ethnic and cultural balance.

Peter Brimelow, a contributing editor of National Review and senior editor of
Forbes, says, "The onus should not be on the critics of current policy to
explain their motives. Instead, supporters of current policy must explain why
they wish to transform the American nation as it had evolved by 1965."

True. And accusations of "nativism" are not explanations.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              146 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 8, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

Don't Fence In America

David Crosland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 786 words


The Clinton administration has announced a "super plan" to stop "organized
criminal Chinese gangs" from profiting from human misery and taking advantage of
wealthy Chinese who are alleged to pay up to $ 20,000 per person to come to the
United States for the apparent purpose of being assistant cooks. An unnamed
sourced within the Immigration and Naturalization Service fans the flames by
suggesting that there are 100,000 Chinese smuggled into the United States per
year. There are no statistics anywhere to support that assertion.President
Clinton appointed a new INS commissioner at a Rose Garden ceremony where he
seemed to tie the outcome of all domestic programs on controling immigration.
Janet Reno becomes at least the third attorney general in the past few years to
announce a reorganization and management study of INS, which may suggest to the
public that the employees of INS are inept and ill-managed.

We learn that some of the persons arrested for bombing the World Trade Center
are foreign nationals. The FBI arrested yet another group, most of whom are
foreign nationals, charged with a conspiracy to blow up the Holland Tunnel and
kill various officials. David Koresh seems to have attracted his share of
foreign nationals. The media have discovered Chinese being smuggled by ship into
San Francisco and New York. "60 Minutes" did an expose' on those persons
claiming asylum in New York at JFK Airport, and the INS district director for
New York said that these people are allowed to go free because INS does not have
money to lock them up. Part of the administration's plan calls for dramatically
curtailing review of asylum claims.

Sen. Alan Simpson and Rep. Romano Mazzoli, who in the past have based their
concern about immigration on numbers, have abandoned the numbers game and are
looking at immigration through the eyes of a slightly hysterical press.

I suggest that we stop our headlong flight toward enacting legislation based on
xenophobia and look at the figures. The number of Chinese who have been arrested
in the much-heralded smuggling operations number 2,400 during a period of two
years! There is nothing to suggest that hundreds of thousands of people are
going to get on ships and come to the United States from China. Most Chinese are
terribly poor, and very few have an income in excess of $ 1,000 per year.

The INS counted 216,000 asylum claims pending by nationality as of Oct. 1, 1992.
Of that number, 135,900 were filed by nationals from Nicaragua, El Salvador and
Guatemala. Nicaragua has 21,500 cases, Guatemala 69,400 and El Salvador 45,000.
Cases from Guatemalans and Salvadorans have accumulated, in part because those
foreign nationals have been granted temporary protective status or have been the
subject of a class action suit.

Each year, 21 million people enter the United States on non-immigrant visas. INS
statistics reflect that 98 percent leave when they are supposed to. This leaves
2 percent, orroughly 400,000 people, not accounted for. Perhaps some of those
leave through our less than adequate exit immigration system. However, assuming
that roughly 400,000 people do not leave each year, then during a period of 10
years, 4 million people would have been added to the population. The number of
accumulated pending cases for asylum during the last few years amounts to about
one-half of the annual number of overstays. One might argue that the proposed
enforcement effort emphasis is being misplaced.

My experience is that the people who work at INS are essentially the same as
other federal employees. The difference is that INS is dealing with people and
situations involving strong human emotions, which make for microcosms of
immigration issues. Sometimes sympathetic circumstances are created by the way
the system treats foreign nationals.

Maybe our national immigration problems are not the fault of INS but the result
of a patchwork quilt of immigration laws that reflect our historical fears and
pressures. We live in an open society. Part of our strength is the sharing of
the democratic process with foreign nationals who visit. Most leave when they
are supposed to. Most comply with the system. Some do not. We should not
dramatically change the asylum process because of the sins of a few, nor should
we blame INS employees for a system reflecting our open society and created by
an elected, representative Congress.

Illegal immigration is primarily an economic problem and not a law enforcement
one. Let us not act precipitously, through our misplaced fear, to deny those
with real fear of persecution opportunities for unbiased review of their claims.

The writer, a Washington lawyer, was general counsel of the INS.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              147 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 9, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Smuggled Chinese Journalist Freed

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A Chinese journalist said he had little choice but to brave passage aboard a
filthy smuggling vessel in hopes of political asylum in the United States.

"I would have been in jail if I had stayed. My life was threatened," Ren-Fu Yang
said.

The U.S. government agreed that his pro-democracy writings for the Fuzhou Harbor
Daily led to his persecution in China and endangered his family. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service freed him Friday.

He was among the 349 Chinese immigrants seized June 2 from two fishing boats off
San Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              148 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 14, 1993, Saturday, Final Edition

Asylum Rehearings Ordered

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A2; AROUND THE NATON

LENGTH: 163 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thousands of people who were denied asylum in the United States will get another
chance under a settlement to a five-year court battle.

U.S. District Judge Terry J. Hatter on Thursday approved the settlement of a
class-action lawsuit that contended the federal government used shoddy
interviewing procedures in denying asylum to many Central Americans and others.

Without admitting wrongdoing, the government agreed to provide new interviews
with added safeguards to those who were improperly denied asylum between 1988
and 1990.

The settlement could effect as many as 38,000 people in Southern California,
according to lawyers for the plaintiffs. But the figure was put at only a few
thousand by Immigration and Naturalization spokesman Verne Jervis.

The case involved INS task forces formed in 1988 to handle a backlog of asylum
applicants from El Salvador and Guatemala. At the time, more than 95 percent of
applicants from those countries were being rejected.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              149 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 6, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Why Not A National ID Card?

Robert Kuttner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 850 words


When White House officials disclosed a plan to create a national health
insurance card last week, there was the usual squawking by some civil
libertarians and immigrant-rights advocates.

Administration health planners say the card will allow more efficient processing
of health claims, as well as the creation of a more comprehensive health
database. The plan, however, prompted concerns by immigrant-rights groups, that
the health card could be used as a device to screen out aliens. It elicited
anxiety by the American Civil Liberties Union that the health card might become
a backdoor national ID card.

As a journalist I am of course devoted to the First Amendment. But in this case
the fears of the civil libertarians are misplaced.

The idea that any of us is sheltered from countless national databases or ID
cards has long since been overtaken by technology. If anything, there is far
more abuse of private databases than of government ones.

Just look in your wallet. Your Social Security card number, which once (but no
longer) pretended that it could not be used "for purposes of identification," is
likely to be your driver's license number as well as your IRS identifier. If you
have a Visa or MasterCard, merchants can obtain profiles of your shopping
habits. If you have health insurance, personal information is collected in
private medical bureau databases, from which it can be bought and sold among
insurance companies.

In 1991 a reporter for Business Week set out to expose the laxity of credit
bureaus. He truthfully told a major credit bureau that he was an employee of
McGraw-Hill (Business Week's parent company). This affiliation implied a
legitimate business purpose and enabled him to obtain a password that gave him
access to the confidential credit histories of millions of Americans, including
that of then-Vice President Dan Quayle.

So Americans are already vulnerable to massive invasions of their privacy,
courtesy of computerized databases and ID cards. The real challenge is to
regulate the abuse of ID cards and information banks, not to somehow ban them.

The paradox of our national phobia against ID cards is that we already have most
of the liabilities, while denying ourselves potential benefits, of computerized
record-keeping.

For example, a universal health card would not just simplify billing; it also
would allow research into epidemiology, the correlation of cancers with
environmental risks, the tracking of whether all children are vaccinated and a
host of other social benefits.

By the same token, the fears of immigrant groups are misplaced. Whether you
favor liberal immigration or strict quotas, some limits and criteria always will
be imposed on who may legally enter the country.

Unless we go to the extreme of having totally open borders, some device is
necessary to differentiate citizens and legal foreign visitors from illegally
resident (or "undocumented") aliens. The paradox is that the more we resist some
uniform ID card, the more foreigners whose documents are not in order are likely
to be harassed by immigration officials. Let's decide who is legally here and
who isn't -- and then keep track.

Although an "internal passport" is associated with totalitarian societies,
wouldn't it also be nice for law-abiding citizens if there were reliable records
of who was eligible to vote (no more need for voter registration), whose medical
license had been withdrawn by another state for malpractice, who was ineligible
to drive or to buy a gun?

Americans, whose first national motto was "Don't Tread on Me," have been
conditioned to equate a "national ID card" (gasp!) with an incipient police
state. You would think that we never had experienced driver's licenses, tax
returns, Medicare cards, voter rolls, the Selective Service, the decennial
census or demographically targeted junk mail.

We assume we are shielded from abuse because these records are haphazard. But in
the checkered history of liberty in our country, there have been plenty of witch
hunts, enemy lists, red scares and the like, long before computerized databases
or ID cards. Sen. Joe McCarthy, J. Edgar Hoover and the House Committee on
Un-American Activities did their dirty work without national ID cards or
databases.

The issue is not whether these information banks and ID cards can be eliminated
-- they are unfortunately part of modern society -- but how best to regulate
their abuse. If anything, we need much tighter controls on the ability of
private business to buy and sell data collected for one purpose and then used
for another. We need higher walls between government agencies, lest the IRS and
CIA peek at individual census or health records, and lest off-duty cops
illicitly sell data from the uniform crime reports to private eyes. We need
stricter penalties for misuse.

The penchant of Americans to become fixated on the wrong grievance is nothing
short of astonishing. Surely the greater national disgrace and greater denial of
liberty is the fact that tens of millions of Americans risk financial ruin if
they become sick.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              150 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 27, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Au Pair Agency's Promises Prove Too Good to Be True;
Families Left Without Children's Caretakers

David Montgomery, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 1337 words


For about a dozen families desperately seeking affordable, legal child care in
the Washington area, the offer they heard was too good to pass up: hard-working
au pair nannies from Northern Ireland, below-market fees, papers in order.

After seeing newspaper ads this summer, each family paid up to $ 2,900 in
advance for a year of live-in nanny care starting in July. Then, about three
weeks ago, the families discovered it was too good to be true. Their au pairs
weren't legal after all, they say.

The young women came to the United States on tourist visa waivers granted
routinely to citizens of the United Kingdom for vacations of up to three months.
It is illegal for such visitors to work here.

In recent weeks, at least four of the au pairs -- ranging in age from 18 to 25
-- abandoned their host homes without notice. Fearful of what the people who
brought them here and the immigration authorities might do, the women took
refuge with sympathetic families.

"We were totally taken in," said Hilary Bikowski, who lives in Arlington with
her husband and four children. "We were told the au pair would arrive and she
would be legal."

Now Bikowski, a meeting planner, has quit work for six months "to put some
stability back in the kids' lives." The children, ages 3 to 10, were mystified
when their 19-year-old au pair left without a goodbye. And Bikowski's hopes of
getting a quick refund from the au pair agency are fading fast, she said.

The au pairs were brought from Northern Ireland by Inter Au Pair, a fledgling
agency run by Janie Cochran, 39, from a house on Belair Drive in Bowie. Cochran
said she planned all along to obtain working papers for the 11 au pairs she now
has in the country -- before their tourist status expires.

"If I have done something wrong, I will fix it," she said. "I have nothing to
hide." Because of the complaints from angry families, she said she is consulting
an immigration attorney to see if she broke any rules. If so, she will refund
the money on an installment plan because she doesn't have the cash anymore, she
said.

Most of the au pairs declined to speak to a reporter, but people close to them
say they are in touch with immigration authorities and want to return to
Northern Ireland as soon as possible.

Cochran had trouble providing au pair services once before. After a dispute with
a Utah au pair agency left at least five families without au pairs promised by
Cochran, she agreed to refund nearly $ 15,000 in installments, she said.

"I feel like I'm back in the same mess I was in," Cochran said.

Immigration specialists assailed Cochran's plan to obtain working papers after
the au pairs' arrival. "To bring in these girls on a visa waiver and represent
to them that they will have work authorization is legally impossible," said Anne
Mitchell, a Washington immigration lawyer familiar with the matter.

INS spokesman Rick Kenney would not comment on Cochran, but he said if an agency
brings an au pair into the United States on a tourist visa, "that's a clear
violation of immigration law, and [an agency] can be prosecuted" and fined up to
$ 3,000 per violation.

Lawrence F. Johnson, a lawyer consulted by Cochran, said immigration law is so
complex that Cochran may not have understood it when she started her business.
"I think she was operating with inadequate and incomplete information," he said.

In Newry, Northern Ireland, the mother of two of Cochran's au pairs is
disgusted. At first she and her husband tried to talk their daughters out of
going, but then they relented. "We got so excited," Bernadette Graham recalled
in a telephone interview.

Jobs are scarce in Northern Ireland, and many au pairs thought they could stay
on in the United States and earn academic degrees. "They were determined,"
Graham said. "They thought this was an opening. They were told a lot of
different things. But at the end of it all, [Cochran] was a wee bit smarter than
everybody."

Said Cochran: "My answer to Mrs. Graham is, 'If your daughters are unhappy, then
[they should] come out of hiding and go home.' "

Not all the host families are upset with Cochran, and not all the au pairs have
fled. Cochran estimated that five of her au pairs are still with their families,
and she said she is seeking proper working papers for them.

"I'm happy," said Veralynn Morris, of Highland, who got an au pair through
Cochran. "[But] I'm in a real big quandary about what to do. I know nothing
about visa stuff."

Au pairs are different from nannies, who are professional child care providers
who also may perform housekeeping tasks. Au pairs are expected to learn about
American culture and may work no more than 45 hours a week caring for children.

Families pay the eight agencies designated by the federal government up to $
3,400 in advance plus $ 100 a week in "spending money" -- not wages -- to the au
pair and $ 300 a year to the au pair for classes. That works out to about $ 175
a week, compared with $ 250 to $ 350 for salaried live-in nannies.

Families that chose Inter Au Pair saved at least $ 500 in fees, and they were
guaranteed au pairs almost immediately. Specialists say consumers should beware
of deals that sound too simple. "If it's too easy and too cheap, then ask
questions," said Kenney, of the INS.

Earlier this year, Cochran was placing au pairs for families through Au Pair
Program U.S.A., a major agency in Salt Lake City. The agency said Cochran
supplied faulty paperwork and used invalid contracts allowing the women to work
up to 50 hours a week.

Cochran said the agency approved the contracts, then canceled them after the
families paid but before the nannies arrived. An official at the U.S.
Information Agency, which oversees the largest au pair programs, said government
lawyers are reviewing the dispute.

"It was very damaging to us," said Jacque Bray, director of Au Pair Program
U.S.A., which dropped Cochran in January.

"It left a real distaste for [au pair] agencies in my mouth," Cochran said of
the venture.

So she struck out on her own and had a friend near Belfast place ads in the
Belfast Telegraph and the Newry Reporter, Cochran said. But it wasn't until just
before they boarded the jetliner in July that the young women learned there
might be problems with the immigration papers prepared by Inter Au Pair. The
travelers were instructed by Cochran's friend to tell U.S. immigration officers,
"This is a social visit," if questioned, Cochran said.

"I said, 'Why are we lying?' " one of the au pairs recalled asking. "We were
told that's how it's done."

"I was very uncomfortable with that," Cochran said. "Obviously you're lying to
immigration, and that can't be legal." But Cochran insists that the authorities
never asked the women the purpose of the trip, so they didn't actually lie.

In a later interview, Cochran denied that her associate ever advised anyone to
lie.

Bikowski, of Arlington, first realized there was a problem with her au pair's
immigration status several weeks ago when the young woman was denied a driver's
license because she entered the country as a tourist.

Last month, Cochran took two au pairs to meet a McLean family. When Cochran
stepped outside, the women warned the family. "They said, 'Don't give her any
money, our visas are only good for 90 days,' " said the husband, who insisted on
anonymity. Cochran calls that account "ridiculous."

Some au pairs began leaving their host families around Labor Day and were put up
by several Northern Virginia families. If they are deported because of the visa
problem, they could be barred from returning to the United States for any reason
for five years, officials say.

Cochran says now that she will shift away from the foreign au pair business and
instead broker American nannies for area families. She's also offering a health
care program for domestics. And she is starting a new business called HELP Inc.

In that one, she will charge a fee to help families make sure their household
help is legal.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, THE GROWING USE OF AU PAIRS IN THE U.S. (GRAPHIC IS NOT
AVAILABLE.), JOHN ANDERSON

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              151 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 14, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrant Inmates a Mixed Blessing

Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V1

LENGTH: 798 words


Since early June, more than a dozen illegal Chinese immigrants have been held in
Prince William County's jail, swept up by a highly visible tide of smuggling
operations that attempted to bring foreigners into the United States this year.

The 14 inmates in Manassas have posed both unusual demands and unexpected
rewards. Separated from wardens by gulfs of language and custom, the inmates
have strained prison resources, but they also have brought in a raft of federal
dollars for their care.

From Northern Virginia's Chinese American ministers and restaurateurs, who have
rallied to help, the immigrants have provoked both compassion and sternness for
their dramatic attempt, however misguided, to attain a familiar dream.

"People that are immigrants, you know, they're not the typical convicted felon,"
said Col. Glendell Hill, superintendent of the Prince William County Adult
Detention Center, expressing his ambivalence about the entire affair.

"What they're trying to do is come into the U.S., not to be in jail but to
become a citizen, not to commit crimes but to make a life."

Wearing sneakers and the blue jumpsuits assigned to inmates awaiting legal
decisions -- convicts wear orange -- the men have spent more than four months in
the prison, playing cards and watching television.

The original group of 23 prisoners, mostly uneducated farm laborers from the
Fukien province in southeast China's coastal area, were transferred from crowded
Pennsylvania jails in June after being lured by smugglers to the "beautiful
country," as the United States is called in Chinese.

According to their statements and accounts by a translator, the men pledged
upwards of $ 20,000 each to unknown black-market smugglers to gain entry to the
United States at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport last spring.

From there, they were taken by criminal gangs to a New Jersey warehouse, after
which they were to enter underworld labor markets. However, immigration agents
raided the warehouse and jailed participants.

The 14 inmates remaining in Manassas, either broke or out of touch with
relatives and the smuggling masterminds, have failed to come up with $ 30,000
bond.

At the detention center, a solid brown-brick block rising several stories above
the tree-lined fringe of Old Town Manassas, the inmates have brought in at least
$ 150,000 from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The federal agency, which has formal custody of the men, pays $ 64 a day to
house them. "Obviously, it's a benefit," Hill said.

The immigrants are separated from the regular prison population but receive
equal treatment in food, exercise time and detention policies.

They live in two cellblocks arranged like small apartments, with sleeping
quarters off a central "living room," which contains a television and a table.

They exercise once a week and have access to a prison vending system where they
can pay cash for candy, magazines, toiletries and other amenities. Jail
officials have taken to watching cable TV schedules for foreign language
broadcasts as a courtesy to the inmates, who regularly tune in to
Chinese-language news and soap operas on WNVC, Channel 56.

The Rev. Jeremiah Coe, pastor of the Northern Virginia Chinese Christian Church
in Alexandria, has ministered to the men weekly since July.

"These men want to get out but not to go back home," where they fear death or
imprisonment under more primitive conditions, Coe said. Carrying Bibles,
pamphlets and Chinese-language newspapers, the 42-year-old minister spends
several hours a week with the men.

Coe, who lives in a town house in Kingstowne, learned of the detainees'
circumstances from another minister. "I offer them fellowship," he said simply.
He also answers questions, arranges for medical care and mediates disputes with
prison guards.

But his sympathy for the men's plight has its limits.

"If they want to come here, they have to come here in a legal way," Coe said.
Calling the men childlike in their impressions of the United States, Coe said
most had been deceived into thinking that they would easily and quickly grow
rich beyond their imaginations in this country.

Christine Lee, owner of Christine Lee's Seafood House in Manassas, was called by
county jail workers and asked to help with translation.

She said the inmates were at first both surly and frightened, even with her. "At
first, they pretended not to understand me. But after a while, after I kept
telling them I was there to help them, they began to speak," Lee said.

Authorities say detainees fear being infiltrated by agents of their gangland
masters, and are therefore reluctant to speak freely. But Lee said the men have
now settled into a routine that occasionally includes food donated by her
restaurant.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              152 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 13, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Cost of Legal Immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 290 words


The emotions and controversy surrounding proposals to reform welfare for
noncitizens indicate just how difficult these kinds of problems become once we
accept responsibility for immigrants by allowing them to become legal residents
of our nation. Prominently mentioned in the article "Clinton Task Force Weighs
Cutting Welfare Benefits to Noncitizens," [news story, Dec. 19] were figures
from Donald Huddle's study, "The Costs of Immigration," which was commissioned
by Carrying Capacity Network. It seems that some of the study's most important
findings -- which are based on data provided by federal, state and local
governments -- have been overlooked.

While reforming the welfare system to reduce certain entitlements available to
immigrants already in this country would save money, by far the greatest costs
(a projected $ 668.5 billion net, after subtracting taxes that immigrants pay)
and potential savings to the taxpayer are related to the 11.1 million legal and
illegal immigrants projected to enter the United States during the next 10 years
under current immigration policy.

Indeed, nearly three-quarters of the immigrants and corresponding costs are due
to legal immigration. These costs could be substantially reduced by a single act
of Congress. Real savings gained from reforming the welfare system must not only
be viewed in terms of the difficult choices available in cutting entitlements to
those already receiving benefits but in terms of the comparatively easier choice
of setting reasonable limits to the number of new immigrants our welfare system
can support before they are legally accepted into this country.

MONIQUE MILLER Washington

The writer is executive director of Carrying Capacity Network.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              153 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   February 2, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

A Visa to Speak

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 441 words


GERRY ADAMS is no hero. The Belfast Catholic, who is the leader of Sinn Fein,
the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, was granted a visa to enter the
United States for 48 hours to attend a peace conference and do some speaking.
The granting of a visa, after eight earlier denials, does not confer an honor,
endorse IRA violence or indicate any change in U.S. policy, which is aimed at
encouraging a peaceful solution to the Irish troubles. But it does say something
about this country and its new leadership that is commendable, namely that
American borders are open to visitors who come to speak and not terrorize, even
when the views expressed are likely to enrage and scandalize.

Mr. Adams is careful to emphasize the distinction between the IRA and his
political party, though the two are clearly intertwined. He was, for a time, an
elected member of the British Parliament, and though as a matter of principle he
refused to sit at Westminster, he wants to be seen as a man who shares the goals
of the IRA but works through the political system. Though he has not renounced
violence in the terms that leaders in Britain and the Irish Republic have urged,
he has made statements in connection with his visa application that suggest a
move in the right direction. Moreover, he has for some time been engaged in
secret negotiations with the British, now apparently at an impasse, working
toward an agreement that would end violence and establish a peaceful working
relationship among the warring factions in Ulster.

In Britain and Northern Ireland, neither Mr. Adams nor anyone connected with the
IRA is allowed to be heard on radio or television. It is impossible to imagine
such censorship of any participant in a conflict of such overriding importance
in this country. Many Americans, including most of the Irish American
politicians who urged the president to grant a visa, have the same view of the
IRA as do the British. But here, there is no prohibition on debate about public
issues, and there should be no denial of visas to quash speech either.

Perhaps Mr. Adams will be challenged and chastened by television and radio
interviewers who are free to confront him here as they would not be able to do
on his own turf. And perhaps he will be encouraged by the Irish American
community, whose support he seeks, to get on with making peace. But whatever the
outcome of this trip, it is right that it was allowed, not for the sake of the
IRA or Sinn Fein but for the sake of Americans who believe free speech is an
unassailable good and are practiced in listening to and sorting out all the
players in a complicated game.


LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              154 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 3, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrants Pick Suburbs Over Cities;
Social Service Agencies Gear Up To Better Serve Foreign-Born

Elisha King, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MARYLAND WEEKLY (MONTGOMERY); PAGE M3

LENGTH: 608 words


People who move into suburban Maryland from out of state are more likely to come
from another country than from elsewhere in the United States, and state
officials are reevaluating their social services operations to cope with the
influx.

Agencies that serve foreign-born clients say they are not financially equipped
for the increasing demand. Their task is complicated by the difficulty of
documenting the number of immigrants and refugees coming to the state because
many new residents are afraid to tell the government they are here.

That assessment was delivered last week to more than 65 social service providers
who met in Howard County at a conference sponsored by the Maryland Department of
Human Resources.

"The suburbs actually received more immigrants than the urban areas," said
Robert Dadd, research director for the Maryland Office of Planning. "Decade by
decade, their numbers are increasing rather dramatically."

Montgomery County attracted the most immigrants between 1980 and 1990, followed
by Prince George's County, Baltimore County, Baltimore city and Howard County.
Dadd said 147,000 immigrants moved into the state between 1980 and 1990,
compared with 86,000 between 1970 and 1980.

Montgomery County drew about 74,000 immigrants during the 1980s, and Prince
George's County became home to 39,000. Howard County's numbers slipped from
4,900 between 1965 and 1979 to 4,200 between 1980 and 1990, said Martin Ford,
community liaison for the Maryland Office for New Americans.

"The one thing we don't want, in this climate of anti-immigrant sentiment, is to
do anything negative," said Frank Bien, director of the New Americans office.
"We have to be careful in this time to put our right foot forward and not do
anything that could cause greater backlash against immigrants."

Many of the groups represented at last week's conference specialize in helping
the foreign-born find work, child care and English-language classes. Others
provide services to the general public and are trying to learn how best to adapt
their operations to serve foreign-born populations.

Those residents often do not speak English and have trouble learning what social
services are available for them, Bien said. They also may have difficulty
negotiating leases for housing, conducting parent-teacher conferences, reading
public transportation schedules or communicating with doctors.

Felicita and Juan Salgado experienced those problems when they arrived in the
United States from El Salvador. Felicita Salgado spoke no English when she came
to live with her uncle seven years ago, and she still is not fluent. She
remembers feeling isolated and alone when she moved to Maryland.

"The language was just so different -- it was forbidding," Felicita said through
a translator from the Howard County Foreign-Born Information and Referral
Network. "I kept wondering, 'How am I going to get work here?' "

Attendees at the conference agreed that they should develop a formal analysis of
the needs of the foreign-born population.

"We know about the immigrant population in terms of numbers, but we have no idea
whether they use social services at any greater rate than the native
population," Bien said. There may be even more people using those social
services because immigrant counts do not include refugees.

Providers are trying to gain a better sense of what services they offer.

"We're going to try to get out there in the communities to figure out how to get
the most bang for the buck in these tough times," Bien said. "And we also want
to get out there to let this new population know that they're welcome in our
state."


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JUAN AND FELICITA SALGADO OF COLUMBIA, SEEN WITH CHILDREN
OFELIA, 3, AND FELICIA, 3 WEEKS, ARE FROM EL SALVADOR. BILL O'LEARY

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              155 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 18, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Study of Immigrants Finds Asians at Top in Science and Medicine

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6

LENGTH: 726 words


Well-educated Asian immigrants have rapidly established themselves at the top of
the scientific and medical professions in the United States, outdistancing
native-born blacks and Hispanics both in achievement and earnings, according to
a report issued by the Center for Immigration Studies.

The influx of Asian professionals has filled the needs of American businesses
and universities, and it was facilitated by U.S. immigration policies. But the
report argues that the ready availability of skilled foreigners has meant that
fewer native-born Americans, especially minorities, have moved into areas such
as engineering, medicine and computer science.

If the trend continues, the report suggests that the professional labor force
could develop "a three-tier racial distribution topped by Asian professionals,
with non-Hispanic whites as a middle tier, and blacks and Hispanics in the lower
tier."

The Center for Immigration Studies is a Washington-based research institute that
has published several reports and books portraying contemporary immigration as
an event with negative demographic and environmental consequences.

Immigration's impact on the nation's disadvantaged minorities has become a
subject of growing interest among policymakers and experts in recent years. Most
of the attention, however, has focused on the influx of large numbers of Latino
immigrants into minimum-wage and blue-collar jobs. Through an analysis of census
data, this report examines some of immigration's effects on the most demanding
and highly paid professions.

For example, the report found that there are more foreign-born Indian physicians
than there are native-born black physicians, more Filipino nurses than
native-born Hispanic nurses, and nearly twice as many foreign-born Vietnamese
engineers as native-born Puerto Rican engineers.

Asian immigrants not only have surpassed native minorities in sheer numbers in
many professions but also in remuneration, the report stated. While nearly
12,000 Asian-born physicians earned more than $ 150,000 a year, fewer than 1,900
blacks, native- and foreign-born, were paid that much. Although there are
slightly more black college professors than Asian immigrant professors, nearly
three times as many Asian professors earn more than $ 75,000 a year than blacks.

One obvious cause of these disparities is that foreign-born professionals in
general are better educated than their native-born colleagues, and this is
especially true among Asians. For example, the study reports that two-thirds of
all Indian professionals in the United States have advanced degrees and nearly
91 percent have college diplomas, which is more than twice the rate for
native-born non-Hispanic whites.

The success of immigrants in science and medicine also reflects a movement away
from those fields by the native born, the report states. Since 1975, the number
of Americans seeking doctorates in science and engineering has been flat, and
native-born professionals are now concentrated in pre-college education, the
social sciences and legal professions.

Moreover, the report notes that in recent years Congress has created new
immigrant categories to accommodate the highly skilled and has taken other
measures designed to encourage an influx of registered nurses, to give permanent
status to Chinese scholars here during events surrounding the 1989 Tiananmen
Square massacre and to facilitate immigration by scientists from the former
Soviet Union.

The report was written by Leon F. Bouvier, a professor of demography at Tulane
University, and David Simcox, a consultant on immigration matters.

"Foreign-born professionals have been a double gift to the United States," the
report said. "They have helped meet the needs of underserved populations and
enriched scientific research and education. Moreover, they tend to have
native-born children who perform well academically and in many cases will
themselves become professionals."

On the negative side, the report states that "continued access to large numbers
of foreign-born professionals offers few incentives for labor markets to make
the necessary adjustments to attract, train and retain an adequate domestic work
force," and it suggests that this lack of incentive has slowed the movement of
native-born minorities into the scientific and medical professions.


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, FOREIGN BORN BY PROFESSION, TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              156 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 21, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Youth Center Soothes Transition for Hispanic Immigrants

Lucy Hood, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: DISTRICT WEEKLY; PAGE J1

LENGTH: 640 words


To get into this country from El Salvador, 17-year-old Franklin Cortez said he
paid bribe money, hopped on a cargo train, illegally crossed the border but was
eventually detained in an immigration camp.

Now, 11 months later, he would have been homeless on District streets, if not
for the Transitional Living Program. The nine-month-old program, run by the
Latin American Youth Center, is the first of its kind for homeless Hispanic
youths in the area.

"I guess maybe I didn't really think about it enough. I thought it was going to
be happier," Cortez said about his life in the United States.

Cortez is one of 11 participants in the program, called TLP, who must comply
with strict guidelines for studying, working, cooking and cleaning. For 18
months, they also are provided a series of self-help sessions that range from
group therapy to English classes.

"The whole goal is that they be independent of public assistance and able to
sustain themselves in this society," said counselor Nicholas Renfrew. The
program is one of 119 financed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services as a way to fight delinquency. There are two other programs in the
Washington area, one in Northeast and the other in Alexandria.

The one run by the Youth Center, at a cost of $ 190,000 a year, is the only one
in the area that -- because of center priorities and its Adams Morgan location
-- targets Hispanic youth.

During an interview with six participants several weeks ago, all told stories of
hardship in getting to the United States and settling in. Some came in search of
the "American dream" of economic success. Others pursued parents who had left
them behind. Most sought both. And for all who spoke, it's been a
disappointment.

Cortez initially stayed with his uncle, but that didn't work out, he said.
"Here, everything is different. People change," he said.

On his trek from El Salvador, Cortez started out with the equivalent of $ 25.

By the time he crossed Guatemala and reached the Mexican border, all of his
money was gone. Part of it was used to pay off Guatemalan officials at
immigration checkpoints, he said.

Once in Mexico, he and his companions walked for eight days until they managed
to sneak onto a cargo train heading north, he said. That took them to the U.S.
border, where he waded across the Rio Grande.

But his luck ran out on his way to Houston; he was detained by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service for two months before his uncle was able to bring him
to Washington.

Alfredo Fernandez, 19, arrived from Bolivia about seven months ago. He came to
Washington to catch up with his father, who has been living in the United States
for 13 years. Fernandez said he encountered an uninviting household.

"It's like meeting a stranger," he said of his father.

The participants end up in TLP mostly through referrals from counselors who
notice the young people who hang out in the center.

Carlos Vera, TLP coordinator, said that he aims to break a cycle created by
parental rejection. Children are always trying to learn why they were abandoned,
and it delays their ability to prepare for life, he said.

"It's a constant fight within themselves," he said, explaining that the first
reaction is depression, then frustration and then often violence.

Luciano Basso, 21, felt rejected by his mother, twice. She had left Brasilia,
Brazil, for the United States when he was 2 years old. About a year ago, his
mother asked him to live with her.

"I tried to be her friend," he said. But he ended up homeless, jobless and
unable to speak English.

Now, he has a place to live, and his primary goal is to learn to speak English
and eventually go to college to study something related to marketing and public
relations.

"I've started my new life," he said. "And I've got plans for this new life."


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              157 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 23, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

400 Haitians Intercepted, Held in Florida;
Clinton Calls Case Unique

William Booth, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 1028 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 22, 1994


More than 400 Haitian refugees intercepted by the Coast Guard within sight of
Florida's beachfront condominiums were taken into custody by immigration
officers here today instead of being forcibly returned to Haiti.

President Clinton said that bringing the Haitians ashore -- many of whom arrived
barefoot, drenched from rain and wobbly with seasickness -- was not a change in
the controversial policy of stopping the refugees at sea and immediately
repatriating them without a chance to apply for political asylum.

Instead, Clinton said the 406 Haitians who walked down the gangplank today from
the Coast Guard cutter Mohawk were a unique case.

"These people were only four miles from the shore... . We had evidence that the
Haitians might have been subject to some abuse by the people who were in control
of the boat," he said at an unrelated photo opportunity in Washington. "For
those reasons we thought the appropriate thing to do was to bring them on in."

The Clinton administration announced Thursday it will press the U.N. Security
Council to broaden its embargo on the military-ruled Caribbean nation to include
all exports and imports except food and humanitarian supplies after
acknowledging the current embargo of fuel and arms had failed to curb escalating
violence and repression. But supporters of deposed Haitian President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide in Washington called the new U.S. move "a half step" that
fails to satisfy their demands.

Coast Guard officers said the battered 65-foot freighter that had carried the
Haitians from the north coast of Haiti and through the Bahamas had drifted deep
into U.S. waters, and that many of the passengers, including women and children,
were seasick and without food or water. Coast Guard and immigration officials
said the decision to allow the Haitians into Miami was made this morning by the
White House.

The interception was the largest of Haitians in U.S. waters.

Five sick passengers were airlifted off the freighter Thursday to an area
hospital, and today some passengers stumbled off the Coast Guard cutter and
needed help walking. They were assisted by uniformed officers wearing rubber
surgical gloves and masks. Their few belongings -- including Bibles and a pair
of black woman's pumps -- were waterlogged. Some of the passengers wore nothing
but shorts.

Immigration officials said there appeared to have been violence aboard the boat,
possibly committed by the smugglers. Eight of the 406 passengers were
handcuffed, but officials said they did not yet know the extent of the violence.

Father Thomas Wenski of the Notre Dame d'Haiti, a large Catholic church in Miami
that serves Haitians, said after a brief visit with the passengers that he was
told at least six people had died during the six-day passage.

"They threw their bodies overboard," he said.

"We weren't sure how many of them were too sick to make the three-day return
voyage to Port-au-Prince," said Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Jim Howe, explaining one
reason why the Haitians were taken to Miami.

Haitian advocates, who have called Clinton's policy of forced return inhumane
and racist, hailed the arrival of the boat people.

"I think it's a de facto change in policy," said Randall Robinson, executive
director of the foreign policy advocacy group TransAfrica, who is in the 11th
day of a hunger strike to protest U.S. Haiti policy. "I think it's obviously a
response to the torrent of criticism this administration has heard about this
inhumane repatriation."

"Nobody should be sent back to Haiti," said Steve Forester, an attorney for the
Haitian Refugee Center in Miami's Little Haiti neighborhood. "Haiti is a killing
field... . repatriating Haitians is like sending Jews back to Nazi Germany."

But officials reiterated there was no change in policy, and reported that even
as the Haitians were being unloaded in Miami, another boatload of 24 Haitians
intercepted off Haiti were being returned to Port-au-Prince.

Today's action, however, may send mixed signals to increasingly desperate
Haitians back home, as well as to the 40,000 Haitians living -- most illegally
-- in the Bahamas. "We are monitoring the situation very closely. Any change in
U.S. policy will have a dramatic impact on us," said Kate Hale, director of Dade
County's Office of Emergency Management.

The 406 Haitians were scheduled to be taken to the Krone Detention Center on the
outskirts of Miami, already full of detainees. Once there, the Haitians could
press claims for political asylum, based upon fears that they would be
persecuted in Haiti, where political terror -- including rape and mutilation of
political foes -- is commonplace.

Immigration officials said it was possible some of the arriving Haitians could
be "paroled" into the community to stay with relatives while awaiting a ruling
on their claims. Even those who face deportation could delay a return to Haiti
for months, if not years.

The Haitians' arrival in Miami today followed the harshest denunciation yet by
ousted President Aristide of the U.S. policy of forcible repatriation, calling
it "a cynical joke ... racist policy." He is demanding the administration end
the practice, impose a unilateral U.S. embargo against Haiti and warn the
Haitian military of possible further punitive measures if they do not surrender
power.

Earlier this month, Aristide began the formal process of withdrawing from a
treaty that allowed the United States to board Haitian vessels and return
illegal migrants.

Clinton has defended his policy of forced repatriation, arguing it saves lives
by discouraging Haitians from taking to the seas in overloaded and often doomed
boats.

The Coast Guard was unable to determine the freighter's point of departure and
could not identify either the boat's name or its captain.

It appears, however, the boat left Haiti Saturday and slowly worked its way
north before it was spotted by the Coast Guard early Thursday 60 miles from
Florida. During the day, the freighter several times declined Coast Guard
demands to stop. The boat eventually came within about four miles of shore
before its passengers were unloaded and the boat towed.



LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, SOME OF THE 406 HAITIAN REFUGEES INTERCEPTED FOUR MILES OFF
FLORIDA YESTERDAY DISEMBARK, AT LEFT, FROM THE COAST GUARD CUTTER MOHAWK IN
MIAMI. RIGHT, THE 65-FOOT FREIGHTER THAT CARRIED THEM ON THEIR SIX-DAY VOYAGE
NEARS THE DOCK. TWP; PHOTO, AP

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              158 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 30, 1994, Saturday, Final Edition

Haitian Group to Be Released

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A6; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 150 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Immigration officials agreed to release a group of children and pregnant women
who were among 411 Haitian refugees brought ashore by the Coast Guard a week
ago.

The 10 women -- including one with two small children -- and 12 unaccompanied
children will be placed with relatives or sponsoring families by church groups
in the area.

The women and children are the first Haitians released from the group that was
found April 22 on a crowded boat that had drifted within four miles of the U.S.
coast. The United States typically turns away such boats. But President Clinton
made an exception because authorities said they feared the Haitians were being
abused.

Earlier, eight Haitian men were moved to jail facilities in Broward County after
authorities said their interviews determined they belonged in criminal
facilities. Another man escaped by walking away from Jackson Memorial Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              159 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 5, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

400 Detained Haitians to Go Free;
Refugees to Remain in U.S. Pending Legal Action, Officials Say

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A34

LENGTH: 677 words


More than 400 Haitian refugees who recently arrived in Florida in defiance of
U.S. policy will soon be released from federal custody and allowed to remain in
the United States pending legal action on their cases, Clinton administration
officials said yesterday.

None of the refugees has been legally admitted to the United States, and
technically they all could be held in jail until their cases are decided by an
immigration judge, a process that often takes months to complete.

But Attorney General Janet Reno, citing overcrowded conditions at the federal
detention center in Miami where the refugees are being held, informed Florida
Gov. Lawton Chiles (D) yesterday that the administration would free the Haitians
over the next few weeks.

Concerned that the release would send an inviting signal to others considering
flight to the United States, administration officials said that their basic
policy of interdicting refugees at sea and sending them back to Haiti would
remain in place.

But regardless of the administration's intentions, the decision appeared certain
to become a new factor in the difficult evolution of U.S. policy toward Haiti.

"Clearly policy towards Haiti is in flux and subject to controversy," said a
senior administration official. "These people happened to show up in the middle
of that and so what are we supposed to do, detain them for the long term and
create a new controversy?"

The decision to free the refugees came a day after President Clinton intensified
public criticism of Haiti's military regime and explicitly condemned human
rights abuses there.

With each denunciation of the junta, Clinton faces increased pressure to offer
some form of safe haven to those fleeing the country. At the same time, however,
the leaders of high immigration states like Chiles are pressuring the
administration to reduce the flow of newcomers.

One result, critics contend, is that the administration repeatedly asserts the
continuity of its policies toward Haitian refugees while making repeated
exception to those policies.

The first Haitians to be released are among 411 refugees who arrived aboard a
rusty freighter that was intercepted by the Coast Guard on April 22 within sight
of Florida beaches.

Under a policy initiated by the Bush administration and continued by Clinton,
Haitians aboard vessels intercepted on the high seas are returned directly to
Haiti without getting a chance to apply for political asylum.

Clinton declared the April 22 ship an exception and allowed the passengers on
shore because the ship was so close to the U.S. coast and because the Coast
Guard had observed evidence that the passengers were being abused by the crew.
Regardless of how they reached the United States, once they arrived the Haitians
gained the right to apply for asylum although they could be held in custody
until their cases are decided.

When its detention facilities are full the Immigration and Naturalization
Service routinely releases persons who have entered the country illegally or who
are otherwise subject to deportation. The Krome Detention Center in Miami has
been so overcrowded that dozens of Haitians have been kept in tents, said Duke
Austin, an INS spokesman.

Of the original passengers, 59 have already been released, including
unaccompanied minors, pregnant women, and parents with children, Austin said.
Nine people taken off the ship will be held for possible prosecution as
smugglers.

Most of 343 people who remain will be released into the custody of family
members who are legal residents here. Those without relatives here will be
turned over to sponsors such as church groups, Austin said.

Among those being released are eight people with active tuberculosis and 13
others who have tested positive for the AIDS virus. The Community Relations
Service of the Justice Department will try to assure that they receive
appropriate medical treatment.

Another group of 97 Haitians who were detained on shore Monday morning after
their ship reached Key Largo will also be released, Austin said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              160 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                       May 8, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. to Expand Offshore Processing of Haitians

Ann Devroy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 889 words


President Clinton yesterday decided to begin a new effort to process Haitians
seeking refuge in the United States by setting up immigration centers on ships
anchored near the island nation or in any willing third countries.

Administration officials said Clinton made the decision after a two-hour session
with his top national security and political advisers yesterday. The president
plans to announce the policy today, a senior adviser said.

The adviser said it would take "a few weeks" to determine if third countries
would participate. If none will, Haitians will be processed aboard ships to
determine whether they are political refugees, and thus eligible for asylum, or
are fleeing economic conditions and not eligible for asylum.

After the 1991 coup that ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Coast Guard
cutters were overwhelmed picking up fleeing Haitians and processing them onboard
before the Bush administration adopted the policy of intercepting the Haitian
boat people and returning them to Haiti to make asylum applications at U.S.
processing centers there.

The Clinton administration plans to process the fleeing Haitians on large ships,
either from the Navy or leased from civilian shipping firms, the official said.

"As the situation in Haiti has gotten increasingly worse, with more violence and
repression, the president has become increasingly concerned that everyone
leaving, even those with legitimate refugee claims, is being returned. That
makes those at risk [from] ... the government there in more danger," the
official said.

He and others in the administration emphasized that they anticipated no more
Haitians would qualify for asylum than do now -- less than 5 to 10 percent of
those seeking refugee status. "They will get no better deal on ships than they
get in their country at processing centers there," the senior adviser said.
About 1,300 Haitians have been stopped at sea and returned home so far this
year, and officials expect an increase in boat people once the new policy is in
place. But the United States will continue to encourage Haitians to use the four
processing centers in Haiti.

The new policy comes in the wake of intense criticism by Democrats in Congress
of the repatriation policy Clinton continued. Activist Randall Robinson
yesterday was in his 26th day of a fast protesting the policy.

Critics maintain the military junta is increasingly harassing, imprisoning and
torturing political opponents, putting at risk qualified political refugees who
flee and are returned by U.S. ships.

Officials said yesterday that the basic U.S. immigration policy that
differentiates between political and economic refugees will not change. What
will change, a senior official said, is the handling of the claims for refugee
status "to ensure that those who are seeking refugee status have a safer and
more expeditious way to make their claims."

The official said the administration will discuss with several Caribbean and
South American countries whether they would be willing to allow the United
States to set up refugee processing areas on their soil but has not yet made any
approaches. If a nation agrees, Haitians found fleeing their own country for
Florida, the usual destination, will be picked up and taken to that country for
processing.

Florida officials, with the Mariel boat exodus from Cuba a painful memory,
staunchly resist processing Haitians there. Administration officials have said
that domestic opposition to waves of new refugees seeking to remain in the
United States would preclude any changes in U.S. policy to accept Haitians who
would not qualify for normal refugee status.

The Bush administration, facing a huge exodus of Haitians after the 1991 coup,
attempted to find third countries that would accept some of the exiles, but was
largely unsuccessful. At one point more than 70,000 Haitians were in tent
encampments, creating a humanitarian and legal crisis. President George Bush
then began intercepting Haitians at sea and returning them. Clinton, as a
candidate in 1992, condemned that policy and pledged to overturn it until he
determined during the transition that it was politically impossible and retained
the policy of forced repatriation.

Besides deciding to set up offshore processing for Haitians, Clinton yesterday
also approved expanding the processing capability in Haiti and providing better
security for those being processed there. The decisions came in a session that
included Clinton's regular foreign policy advisers: national security adviser
Anthony Lake and deputy Samuel R. "Sandy" Berger; Secretary of State Warren
Christopher; Defense Secretary William J. Perry; and political advisers David R.
Gergen and George Stephanopoulos.

The Clinton review of refugee policy coincides with the administration's
decision to press for tougher economic sanctions against Haiti. On Friday, the
United Nations approved those sanctions, aimed at forcing out the military
leaders who staged the coup and restoring Aristide.

Over the past months, political criticism of Clinton's Haitian policy has
steadily increased as the first level of sanctions failed to achieve results and
as repression against Haitian civilians increased. Yesterday on CNN's "Both
Sides," Aristide reiterated his criticism of forced repatriation as racist.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              161 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 21, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Seeks Haven in Central America For Boat Apparently Smuggling Chinese

Reuter

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 391 words


The Clinton administration is looking to have a Central American country accept
a fishing boat that apparently is trying to smuggle more than 100 Chinese people
into the United States, the State Department said yesterday.

Spokesman Lynn Platt said the 168-foot trawler, Jinn Yinn Number 1, is being
towed by the U.S. Coast Guard cutter Sherman and is in the Pacific about 400
miles west of the midpoint of Mexico's Baja peninsula.

"No decision has been made yet about where the vessel will be directed," she
said. "We're looking at options in Central America." She did not elaborate.

Other U.S. officials said it would be much easier to return the boat's
passengers to China if it does not dock in the United States.

"Our policy is to get people to stop smuggling illegal aliens to the United
States. To that end we want to repatriate these migrants and bring smugglers to
prosecution as quickly as possible," said one official who spoke on condition of
anonymity.

"That's why it's much easier for us to repatriate migrants and bring smugglers
to justice if they are taken to third countries rather than taken to United
States, where they would go through a lengthy procedure," he added.

After shadowing the vessel for five days, Coast Guard sailors from two cutters
boarded it in international waters Saturday, encountering no resistance, Coast
Guard officials said.

The 111 passengers -- 101 men and 10 women -- and 10 crew members, all believed
to be from mainland China, appeared in good health and had a 10-day supply of
food, officials said.

Those on board were being interviewed at sea by Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials.

Last July, the Coast Guard intercepted three ships off the Mexican coast
carrying 650 Chinese would-be immigrants. The seizure led to a two-week
diplomatic standoff in which the United States pushed for Mexico to accept the
ships and Mexican authorities insisted it was a U.S. problem.

Mexico finally took the immigrants into the port of Ensenada and put them on
planes for the return trip to China.

U.S. officials are loath to allow vessels containing would-be immigrants to dock
in the United States because the people often claim political asylum and stay
for years while their cases are being considered.

Mexico has a policy of immediate repatriation for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              162 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 17, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

America's Unwelcome Mat;
Does the Immigration Service Have to Give Such a Cold Shoulder to Newcomers Like
Me?

Sheng-mei Ma

SECTION: OUTLOOK; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 2387 words


GREGOR SAMSA (of Kafka's "Metamorphosis") woke up one morning and found himself
-- an immigrant. That's pretty much how my wife and I felt in the last stage of
our attempt to change our visa status from student (J-1) to temporary worker
(H-1) and finally to immigrant (permanent resident with a "green card").

It all had an innocent enough beginning. After obtaining many documents that I
won't enumerate here, we received a form letter from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), informing us we were to file the application for
permanent residence at their Arlington office between 8 and 11 a.m., Monday,
Tuesday or Thursday.

On Jan. 17, a Monday, we headed to Arlington. The drive was two hours and we
felt reasonably happy, since this was the last step toward being able to work
here on a permanent basis. We walked into the office around 9 a.m. and found
ourselves in a long line: Asians, Arabs, Hispanics. When I proudly presented to
a clerk the thick pile of materials my wife and I had prepared, she shook her
head and told me that I was too late.

"I gave out all 40 numbers," she said, leaning to the left to look at the next
person in line.

"What? Forty numbers?" I was too stunned to stand aside. I quoted from my form
letter, signed by the director of the Arlington office.

"Come earlier. We open the door at 6, 6:30. We give out numbers at 7." She
looked at the next person again.

"But . . . you must be mistaken . . . The letter I received says between 8 and
11." I felt stupid repeating myself. The line behind me seemed to be churning
impatiently. I moved slightly to the left. The clerk began talking to the person
behind me.

I felt like shouting, You're wrong! I don't belong with these immigrants around
me! I'm not a wetback or a boat person. I'm a college professor. I have my PhD.
I belong to a different category.

As if she could read my mind, she snapped, "It doesn't matter. These forms -- we
take only 40 each day."

The room began to distract me. Tired-looking people sat on rows of black,
plastic seats, staring blankly at the red electronic numbers above the three
windows. Right below the numbers emerged some faceless clerks, hidden by a high
counter. A baby started to wail. People around it, including some who were
dozing off, shifted their postures to turn away from the cries. The scream grew
harder and harder; the mother finally got up with the child. People slumped back
to their original positions.

I had been warned. A Taiwanese friend (a mechanic) and his wife (a waitress) had
advised us to arrive as early as possible. "Some get there even at 2 o'clock in
the morning," she had suggested hesitantly, quickly adding: "They're like us
though, and you must be in a different category." Yes, I must be different --
with my credentials. Moreover, it had simply seemed ridiculous to line up
outside the locked doors of the INS office at 2 a.m. when their letter stated
the hours so clearly.

The INS taught me a valuable lesson of democ-racy: All immigrants are created
equal; one is just as worthless as the other.

As my wife tried to use the restroom before our drive back, she was interrupted
by the mother who wanted to wash the milk bottles in the sink. The baby had
quieted down now. I walked to a nearby staircase; there were an African and an
Asian smoking.

"Be here at 4," the African recommended. "And they give you a number. Like
this." He took out a slip of brown paper from his pocket. I thought it read
"651." If there were 40 applicants per day, I wondered, why a three-digit
number?

"And they give you an appointment. An interview," he continued. There was indeed
a date on his slip. Seeing my puzzled look, he repeated, in a slightly
self-important way, "Be here at 4. And I believe you will get a number. See.
They open the door at 6. The director leaves at 7. He has already left." One
week later, on a Sunday night, we checked into the Holiday Inn a few blocks from
the Arlington INS office. Too tense to sleep, we watched a late movie, but it
didn't help. I kept saying that we would find no one on Fairfax Drive when we
went out. My wife told me to shut up. By 2 a.m., we couldn't stand the suspense.

When we arrived, there were already people lying, sitting or standing in front
of the doors. So my mechanic friend was right; I was the fool who refused to
accept the truth -- that is, abandon all dignity ye who enter here.

To be sure, I wasn't a stranger to this night vigil. Ten years ago, in the
Taiwanese army, I had done this. I still remember the anxiety of having had to
go to bed at 10 in the freezing barracks, anticipating in anger until an arm
shook me with great gusto for the midnight shift. I was a newcomer and was
customarily given the worst shifts. I never did get used to the routine and
often lay awake until the reveille at 6.

This night, I stood guard again, with a line of sentinels, mostly from Latin
America and Asia, beside the double glass doors of the INS in Arlington, all
wishing to be among the lucky 40 to be "served" that day. Since we're all
newcomers, it's fitting we should brave the cold and darkness, a trial to screen
out the unworthy.

A short man with a moustache told me where the line was. I couldn't help
noticing that he was talking to three other men in an almost jovial manner, as
if this were some midnight party. It turned out that they all came from India,
though they'd never met; a younger man in the group was from Sri Lanka.

"When did you come here?" I asked.

"Two. I first came last night at 9:30 and saw only one man here," the short
Indian replied and pointed at the man who looked like a Korean at the head of
the line, now huddling in a sleeping bag. "Then I came at 12, still very few
people. So I came back at 2." I later learned he was a research scientist at
Virginia Tech, five hours from Arlington. He'd arrived last night with his wife
and 2-month-old baby, who were also staying at the Holiday Inn. The other two
Indians were computer consultants; the Sri Lankan was married to an American and
ran an area movie theater while attending college.

I was shocked by the incongruity of the situation. Here we were -- lining up on
Fairfax Drive at 3 a.m., stamping our feet to keep warm, talking just to kill
time and keep up our spirits. I'd like to think that we with our skills should
be the ones the United States needed.  As night drew on, our tiredness grew and
so did the line. To my amazement, a young Indian couple spread a few blankets on
the sidewalk for a poker game. And the Indians ahead of me continued to chat and
smile. They seemed resigned to fate, whereas my astonishment was turning into
exasperation.

My wife and I were trembling. My arms circled her from behind and we began a
well-synchronized movement, stomping one foot about three times and then the
other foot. When I became conscious of this absurd dance, I realized everyone in
the line was doing it. Pre-dawn hours with bone-chilling wind, we were all
shaking and convulsing uncontrollably. Joggers and businessmen in suit and tie
walked by us. In their glances, we saw bewilderment and indifference. Yes, we
must have looked funny, with our collective choreography, huddled bodies,
unintelligible mumbling.

Around 5 a.m., the cold intensified. When would INS open the doors? Everyone was
quite relieved to hear that the clerk had told me 6 or 6:30. "Only 45 minutes
now," the research scientist said. People took turns phoning their families;
slowly, their families drew up in taxis.

On the second floor, where the INS office was located, the lights went on room
by room. "It must be the cleaning woman," suggested the Sri Lankan.

The Korean who had been here since 9:30 last night was eating a bowl of instant
noodles brought to him by his wife. Some shadows flashed across the lobby inside
the doors; the Indians' 2-month-old baby began to cry. The line seemed fully
awake now and started swaying, like an agitated snake, poised to attack.

A couple of Latin Americans came from the end of the line to the door, peering
in. All eyes were fixed on them. The Sri Lankan finally shouted, "Hey! The
line's back there! Go back!" He was well-trained from selling tickets at his
theater. I joined in the furious chant. A woman went up to one of these
middle-aged Latin Americans and actually pulled him around to show him where the
line ended. He finally nodded his head, but he lingered not far from the door.

The doors swung open a little past 7 a.m. We inched toward the lobby to escape
the cold. As we drew closer, I saw a tall, white-haired man gradually
materialize in the dim lights. I gave him the name Charon -- in honor of the
boatman who ferries the souls of the dead across the River Styx to Hades. To
couples or groups of friends, he asked, "How many foreigners?" Even before the
Sri Lankan and his American wife replied, Charon correctly gave them one number.
He'd been in this business of ferrying the dead for a long time, I could tell.
My wife and I got two slips with the numbers -- 618 and 619. We paid no
attention to a tall, blond woman in a fur coat who walked past the line,
adroitly maneuvered her way into the lobby, and started talking to Charon.

The line was escorted by guards to a dead-end hallway. We waited and didn't look
at each other -- our stubbled faces, disheveled hair, red noses. Several people
tried the restroom; locked. We waited.

Probably after Charon made certain he had loaded 40 numbers for today's ferry,
he came back and announced that we were to go upstairs and wait. No line was
necessary now; the office wouldn't open until 8. Then he pointed at the exit in
the middle of the hallway, and we knew we could leave for a few minutes. We
rushed back to the Holiday Inn and showered. When we returned, everybody looked
different. They had shaved and washed in the second-floor restroom to get ready
for the interview. And I realized why there were a few high-spirited,
well-dressed men and women who walked around, chatting with the clerks.

These, of course, were the lawyers. The woman dressed in fur was one of them,
and she represented several people ahead of me. She read their papers, paced
back and forth, consulted the clerk and called people on her cellular phone. I
understood: Their clients waited for the numbers, and the lawyers showed up when
the office opened.

Around 10:30 a.m., when it was finally our turn, I found my hands shaking. The
clerk mumbled something neither of us could comprehend. It turned out that we
failed to fill out a form -- a form for my wife never mentioned in the INS
letter. Surprisingly, we could do so right here. I was told to return to the
seats to fill it out so they could help the next applicant. I recalled that when
a lawyer had stood by the French-speaking Arab with a number like 613, the clerk
gave them a long time to finish the form at the counter.

As I completed the form, the public address system called us to come to the
counter.

"Your I-140 has to be approved. We can't accept your application without the
approved form," the clerk said.

"What do your mean?" I felt the ceiling was crashing down.

"Your I-140 has to be approved before you come to our office."

"But your form letter didn't say I-140 has to be approved."

"Well," she turned around and pointed at Charon. "He knows. He can explain."

Charon repeated that an I-140, the visa petition, had to be approved by the INS
before I could file an I-485, the application for permanent residence. I
repeated, in a shaky voice, that their letter didn't say that. He said the law
had been changed nine months ago. I must have repeated something, but I knew it
was useless. He returned to his seat, his back to us.

I moved to the next empty window; the clerk had started on the next number. I
asked to speak to him again. The woman in fur, while still on her phone,
suddenly asked him about another applicant. She turned to me and said, "He's the
boss. He knows. You're just wasting his time."

"You're wasting his time, too," I replied between clenched teeth.

I appealed to Charon that we'd been waiting for quite some time; wasn't there
some way to get around this? He shook his head and said he would get someone to
give us the address of the INS office with which we should file the I-140.

"Look," I was virtually pleading, "We've been waiting outside your doors since 3
this morning. Do you mean we have to come back with the approved form at 3
o'clock again?"

He responded without lifting his head, "The INS doesn't tell people when to
come. We open the door at 7."

"Couldn't we get an appointment, since we've already waited?" I stressed the
last word. My wife pressed my hand, a signal for me to calm down.

"You want to get permanent residence, you come here." A curt reply.

"Couldn't we mail you our applications? If you don't treat it as a priority,
that's fine." I tried softening my tone of voice.

"No. You come here."

I had nothing else to say, except, "May I have your name, sir?"

He turned and, for the first time, stared straight at me for a few seconds. He
proceeded to give me his name, and added with a wry grin, "I can even write it
down for you." After we returned to the university, we found that the
application forms that had been sent us a month before indicate that I-485 and
I-140 can be filed together. We phoned our congressman's office and the head of
my department wrote a letter to Sen. Charles Robb. We haven't heard back yet.

My friends insisted that what I had been through did not represent America. And
they sighed. But this is America to me, and my wife and I feel like caricatures,
with a clown's red nose and baggy outfit.

Whose fault is this? My school's administration made it clear that it would not
be responsible for helping me with immigration matters. My boss helped, but he's
not George Bush. The INS? Why did they repeatedly misinform me?

But it's got to be my fault. Why didn't I believe my mechanic friend? Why did I
naively rely on my own resources? Why didn't I comb every line of the
instructions for innuendoes, or call every immigrant friend for any possible
scenario? Why didn't I go back to Taiwan?

Why wasn't I born an American?

Sheng-mei Mae and his wife revisited the INS office in Arlington at 2 a.m. March
16.  Their case is now pending.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, DAVID KLEIN FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              163 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 23, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Growing Desperation Marks Haitian Camp;
Guantanamo Crowding Poses Disease Threat

John Lancaster, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1273 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba, May 22, 1992


Seen from afar, the Haitian refugee camp here looks like a giant, orderly boot
camp, row upon row of olive drab military tents filling the length of a
10,000-foot abandoned airstrip. Up close, it becomes a scene of growing
hopelessness and desperation.

Nearly 12,500 refugees are crammed onto the broad ribbon of asphalt, battling
heat, insects, boredom and frustration while U.S. and Latin American
policymakers wrestle with their fate. Some have been here six months or longer,
their only diversions sets of dominoes or a crude outdoor movie theater with a
sheet of plywood for a screen. Their tents hold 16 cots each and smell strongly
of disinfectant.

Army officials here say the camp is brim full and that without a major
investment in sewage treatment, power generation and housing, the Haitians could
face new threats from disease or the approaching hurricane season. The space
crunch has grown so severe that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS), which evaluates the Haitians' claims for political asylum, recently has
tripled its staff here to more than 100 and the Coast Guard has stopped picking
up Haitians on all but the most dangerously overloaded boats.

"If we exceed the numbers, we have to give some consideration to increasing the
power and water capability," said Army Brig. Gen. Kenneth W. Simpson, the senior
military official in charge of the refugee operation here. "They eat
two-and-a-half tons of rice a day, so [there is] the cost of just feeding them."

After a lull of several months, the number of Haitians fleeing their country in
crude, often leaky sailboats has surged, with more than 10,000 picked up by U.S.
Coast Guard cutters and brought here in the last month alone. Last November,
when U.S. reporters had their first opportunity to talk with refugees, there
were fewer than 2,000 Haitians here. Now, the camp is filled to capacity.

In Washington, senior administration officials held a series of meetings this
week to address the crisis, which began last fall when elements of the Haitian
military ousted Haiti's democratically elected president, Jean-Bertrand
Aristide.

The Haitians cannot be allowed into the United States unless INS interviewers
here determine that they have a plausible case for political asylum, but U.S.
officials say that most are leaving because of worsening economic conditions
related to the continuing international embargo of Haiti. Some administration
officials contend that the INS has been too receptive to Haitians' pleas for
asylum, thus encouraging others to try their luck on the open sea.

The camp is so full that 800 people remain on board two Coast Guard cutters tied
up at the pier. Conditions on the deck of the cutter Thetis were crowded and
grim, with men, women and small children packed shoulder to shoulder on the deck
beneath the tenuous shelter of a yellow tent liner. Some slept, some braided
children's hair in corn rows and at least one man thumbed a dog-eared Bible.

Coast Guard Cmdr. Thomas Paar said that with no more space on the cutters, the
Coast Guard has no choice but to pass by refugee boats that do not appear to be
in imminent danger. But some have made it here anyway. On Thursday, for example,
one such boat limped into port here with "a couple of feet of standing water"
below decks and 317 men, women and children on board, according to Simpson. "It
was grossly overloaded," he said.

Paar, however, said the boat had been spotted at sea and judged to be seaworthy.
"We visually evaluated him," he said. "He was doing just fine."

Paar said that while most of the Haitian boats are "handmade . . . they're
strong, they're sturdy."

In Washington, the decision announced Thursday by the Coast Guard to start
refusing to pick up boatloads of fleeing Haitians today drew angry comment from
some in Congress. "The administration's action is a policy of drowning," said
Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.), chairman of the House Government Operations
Committee. "The sad fact is that Haitians are willing to risk their lives with
the sharks of the sea rather than face the dictators of the military at home."

Lionel A. Rosenblatt, executive director of Refugees International, a private
advocacy group based in Washington, said the Guantanamo base includes thousands
of acres and could easily accommodate more Haitians. He charged that the U.S.
military has allotted only a small portion of the base for the refugees and is
unwilling to expand it.

Interviews with Haitians here revealed a full spectrum of causes for their
flight. Frade DeCenatus, a 26-year-old tractor-trailer driver with a slender
build and a wispy mustache, said through a Creole-speaking translator that he
left Haiti after he was involved in a six-car traffic accident and was
threatened by the family of one of those injured in the wreck.

Jean Francois Fritz, 23, said he fled after he was severely beaten by Army
officers who caught him violating curfew. Fritz was standing in a line of about
50 Haitians due to be sent back home, but he vowed he would try again. "I
consider myself an exile," he said with a slight smile. "I'm too young to lose
my life."

But about one-third of the Haitians arriving here have convinced the INS
interviewers that they should be allowed to go to the United States for further
hearings. Some have waited here for months while the service seeks sponsors and
volunteer agencies to care for them on the mainland.

One of the waiting Haitians is Louis Gene Evans, a 20-year-old farmer who said
he was arrested and jailed on the false accusation that he had circulated
pamphlets and posters attacking the military government. Evans, a tautly built
man in sunglasses and a polo shirt, said he escaped after one night in jail,
"found a little boat" and made his way to freedom.

"They're fleeing for all kinds of reasons," said Ricardo Inzunza, the senior INS
official here. "People are unbelievably honest. They'll tell you they left for
financial reasons and someone's after them [because they owe money]. . . . We
want to be fair, we want to be compassionate, but there's a limit."

Army officials here were careful to refer to their Haitian charges as migrants,
not refugees, lest they lend too much credence to claims of political repression
in Haiti.

Legal efforts so far to halt the forced repatriation of some Haitians, on
grounds the INS screening process is inadequate, have failed. Still pending
before the federal appeals court in New York is a lawsuit by Haitians here and
two relief organizations to force the government to allow lawyers onto the base
to represent those who have passed the initial screening process.

Normally, these refugees would be brought to the United States for a second
hearing and would be entitled to legal representation. But authorities are
keeping here a number of Haitians who have passed their initial screenings but
are infected with HIV, the AIDS virus, and they have no access to lawyers.
Almost 200 of the Haitians currently in the camp have been identified as
HIV-positive and segregated in temporary barracks away from the main group,
officials said.

Camp McCalla, as the tent city is known, has acquired an air of squalid
semi-permanence. Children kick underinflated soccer balls and play on makeshift
seesaws behind rows of concertina wire. Trash and empty juice boxes litter the
asphalt.

"I pretty much eat and sleep and that's about it," said a 20-year-old man who
identified himself only as a welder from Cap Hatien. "Six months and 16 days
I've been here."

Staff writers John M. Goshko and Ruth Marcus in Washington contributed to this
report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HAITIAN REFUGEES WALK IN LINE TOWARD HOLDING AREA AT GUANTANAMO
BASE FOR INTERVIEWS WITH U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS. (THIS PHOTO RAN IN EARLIER
EDITION.), REUTER; PHOTO, AP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              164 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 24, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Haitian Exodus;
The refugees deserve temporary protection, not forced repatriation.

Bill Frelick

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 1031 words


Byits Draconian treatment of Haitian boat people, the U.S. government has
managed to shift the debate farther and farther away from how best to treat
refugees in need of protection to how to avoid the worst mistreatment. Put
simply, the United States ought to recognize that: (1) the military regime that
grabbed power in Haiti is viciously and systematically conducting a reign of
terror that persecutes large numbers who supported the ousted president and
keeps the population as a whole in fear and misery, and (2) refugees fleeing
that repression should be provided temporary protection.

Since the beginning of the crisis, however, the United States has sought to
avoid its minimal obligations to protect refugees from persecution. In the first
stage, our government shopped around the region attempting to coerce or entice
poor neighboring countries to take in the Haitian refugees. Not surprisingly, it
was difficult to convince these countries that they were better able to provide
for the refugees than the United States itself.

Then we held the refugees aboard Coast Guard cutters until there was no room
left. Within hours of returning the first boatloads to Haiti in late November, a
court order prevented further forced repatriations until the underlying question
of international law could be decided: Was this a case of refoulement -- the
forced return of refugees to a place where their lives or freedom would be
threatened -- a practice prohibited by the U.N. Refugee Convention and Protocol?
The Bush administration argued before the U.S. Supreme Court that the Refugee
Convention's ban on forced return "applies only to refugees within the territory
of the contracting state." In other words, if we interdict refugees in
international waters -- physically preventing them from entering our country --
we can send them back to imprisonment, torture or death and not be held
accountable under international law created to protect refugees from that fate.

Until the Supreme Court lifted the injunction -- it never considered the case on
the underlying legal merits -- the government had to offload the Haitians onto
the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. From Guantanamo, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service began "pre-asylum" screening interviews to determine
which Haitians had a "credible fear of return." About one-third met that
standard, allowing those who were not precluded for health reasons to be brought
to the United States for full asylum hearings. Those who were "screened out"
were forcibly repatriated to Haiti without access to legal counsel or to appeal
negative decisions.

Despite the resumption of forced repatriation, the numbers fleeing have outpaced
the ability of the INS to conduct even the pre-screening interviews. Now, the
government announces that it will no longer pick up the refugees unless their
boats are in imminent danger of sinking, because the Guantanamo base has reached
its capacity. Navy Cmdr. Greg Hartung, a Pentagon spokesman, explained: "There
is no room at the inn."

Coast Guard cutters were seen as a magnet attracting boat departures;
withdrawing them is seen as a deterrent measure. But what if the refugees keep
coming? For a decade now the Coast Guard has stopped them from landing. They are
likely to continue interdicting the boats before they hit U.S. territorial
waters. In that case, the prospect looms that the Haitians may be summarily
returned with no screening for refugee claims whatsoever.

What are the alternatives? First, despite claims to the contrary, the naval base
at Guantanamo Bay is not full. The 47-square-mile base has segregated the 12,500
Haitians on one airfield. The real worry is that within a month or so heat and
hurricanes are likely to render the tent encampments uninhabitable. The Navy
needs to start building shelters now that can withstand the elements.

The second major headache for the government is the overwhelmed INS asylum
officer corps. Considering the difficulties of their task -- both in terms of
conditions at Guantanamo and political pressures exerted on them from the State
Department -- the asylum officers have, on the whole, performed admirably.
However, this relatively small unit of the INS has reached its limit, and
regular asylum adjudications back in the United States are backing up and
creating a backlog that may take years to process.

The solution is to stop treating this on the model we use for individual asylum
applicants. This is a mass exodus. In other parts of the world, when mass flows
of refugees flee Afghanistan, Somalia, Cambodia or any of scores of other
countries, they are admitted as a group. After being provided "first asylum,"
they are assisted and protected to the extent the host country is able to help
with the support of the international community. This is a well-established
practice that has the imprimatur of the U.N. system.

Our government need not consider individual refugee claims -- in a mass influx,
it is widely accepted internationally that the individual approach would
overwhelm any country's asylum adjudication system. But there is an obligation
we cannot shirk. We need to provide temporary protection. Many other countries
with far fewer resources than the United States do just this.

The United States certainly is better able to temporarily assist refugees than a
Sudan, or a Malawi or any of the countries in the Caribbean basin. We also have
a legal framework under the Immigration Act of 1990 for providing Temporary
Protected Status without having to grant permanent asylum. We can -- and should
-- admit the Haitians on a temporary basis.

We cannot pretend that those risking their lives on the high seas do not exist.
We also cannot continue the outrageous fiction that Haitians do not have
legitimate fear of persecution upon return. Our government should put its
energies into restoring democracy to Haiti. Until that is done, anything less
than providing minimal, temporary refuge puts us in violation of the fundamental
principles of refugee protection we have heretofore consistently promoted. The
writer is a senior policy analyst for the U.S. Committee for Refugees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, REUTER

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              165 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 24, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

More Immigrant Children Face Double Disadvantage;
Many Have Had Little or No Schooling

Erin Marcus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 1554 words


As a young child, Chek Sem saw a bomb explosion kill his friends in a field in
Cambodia. He escaped the Khmer Rouge when he was 9, trekking through the jungle
to the Thai border with his mother and sister.

But after immigrating to the United States, Sem ran into an obstacle that seemed
even more insurmountable: getting his high school diploma.

The 21-year-old Silver Spring resident first walked into a classroom at age 11,
illiterate in his native language and unable to speak English. Eight years
later, he had finished all the course work needed for graduation, but had failed
the Maryland Functional Writing Test, which Maryland requires for a diploma,
five times.

"I felt kind of down on myself," Sem said. "Like, how come I didn't pass?"

Sem's struggle, educators say, is becoming an increasingly common story in U.S.
schools as the number of immigrants reaches new highs and more foreign students
enter the school system. More than 9 million people immigrated to the United
States during the last decade, more than in any other 10-year span since
1905-1914, when 10 million people arrived, according to the Washington-based
Urban Institute.

Unlike immigrants of 20 to 30 years ago, many of whom had attended school and
could read, a growing number of today's immigrants received no education in
their homelands because of war or poverty, some school officials said. High
school teachers are seeing more students arriving who are illiterate or have
only second- or third-grade educations, with few of the basic skills that are
developed in the early years of elementary school.

At Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, which has one of the largest
English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) programs in Maryland, officials
said nearly a third of their 353 ESOL students arrived with "interrupted"
educations, meaning they have missed at least a year of school and are below the
grade level for their age. Blair ESOL director Joseph Bellino said some are
enrolling in classes here with no prior schooling at all.

In the District, officials estimate that more than 80 percent of their 1,200
high school students who speak limited English are entering at least two grade
levels behind their English-speaking peers.

No official estimates are available on the number of immigrant children who are
arriving with "interrupted" educations nationwide or throughout the Washington
area. But teachers and school officials said the problem is greatest in areas
with large immigrant populations, such as Washington. The 1990 Census revealed
that more than 568,000 area residents speak a foreign language at home. More
than one-fifth of Montgomery County residents speak another language at home,
and more than one-quarter of Arlington County residents do so, according to the
census.

Some of the teenage immigrants enrolling here have missed so much school that
catching up and getting their diplomas is a herculean task, teachers said. The
older they are when they arrive, the less time they have to catch up, and some
students never do.

"For every success story, there are two failures," Bellino said of the students
who arrive with little formal education.

In addition to missed schooling, the students often are struggling to recover
emotionally from the experience of war and have chaotic family lives. Others
spend hours at jobs to help support their families and come to school hungry
because their families can't afford food.

The problem is most acute in high schools, where the students who are behind
have less time to catch up than they would in elementary or middle school. The
influx of such students is placing new demands on high school ESOL programs,
which traditionally have assumed that a student can read and write in a language
other than English -- an assumption that many of these students don't meet.

It also is placing new strains on high school ESOL teachers, who were trained to
teach English to teenagers but are finding themselves responsible for some of
the instruction an elementary school teacher would do.

Dropout figures have not been compiled for ESOL students with "interrupted"
educations, but school officials said their dropout rate is likely to be much
higher than the rate for other students. At Blair High School, for example,
Bellino estimated that 15 of the approximately 200 "interrupted" education
students who entered his ESOL program since 1989 have graduated, while 42 have
dropped out.

The main reason students drop out, Bellino said, is "frustration . . . the
school's really difficult, the family needs money, he or she is getting older
and the material isn't getting any easier."

"I don't think we can reduce the dropout rate," he added. "I don't know how to
reduce the frustration factor."

Even when a student is persistent and committed to graduating, getting a diploma
can be extremely difficult. Chek Sem, the Cambodian immigrant, is one such
example.

Determined to get a diploma so he could have something to show his relatives,
Sem chose to stay in school after finishing his course requirements in order to
qualify for taking the functional writing test again.

But the next time he took the test, after a summer of additional study, he
failed. So he took it again -- and failed.

At age 21, he took the exam for the eighth time -- and finally passed.

"I came to the United States and I had to have something to show for it," he
said proudly. "I had to accomplish what I got."

To help students like Sem, teachers are improvising with new techniques and
materials because traditional high school ESOL books are designed for people who
already have been to school. At Blair High, Bellino said, teachers have turned
to elementary instruction techniques to teach basic concepts such as addition
and subtraction to students who are sometimes 17 and 18 years old.

At High Point High in Beltsville, ESOL teacher Lois Nahmani said she tries to
use role-playing to get students who aren't used to sitting in a classroom all
day out of their seats. "For many, it's hard to sit down all day. Their
attention spans are short," she said.

Teachers stressed that many of these students are intelligent and can learn
quickly, despite their lack of formal schooling. But they said that teaching
students with widely varying educational backgrounds in the same classroom can
be difficult.

In Montgomery County, which has the most ESOL students of any school district in
Maryland and in the Washington area, 13 high schools have ESOL departments that
teach low-level reading and subjects such as social studies to students who
speak limited English. But none of the ESOL departments teaches electives, and
nine do not teach low-level math, instead dispatching the students to regular
math classes.

ESOL teachers said it is important for their students to take electives and
other classes with the English-speaking students so that they don't become
isolated.

"They need to integrate themselves," said Nivea Berrios, a teacher at
Springbrook High School in Silver Spring. "It's no good if they stay in the ESOL
bubble."

But Berrios said some of her students are terrified of their electives because
the U.S.-born students sometimes ridicule them and the teachers are not always
used to working with them.

At Springbrook, Berrios said, one 17-year-old, a Vietnamese Amerasian who barely
spoke English, avoided school for two days because he hadn't understood anything
his baking teacher had said. When the teacher gave him a six-page test -- in
English -- he refused to go to class, she said.

She said another student, a 15-year-old from El Salvador, came to her distraught
after her first ceramics class. "She came to me crying and said, 'I don't
understand,' " Berrios said. "Everybody laughed when she tried to talk, and she
felt so embarrassed."

Even within the ESOL "bubble," school can be a tremendous struggle, Berrios and
others said. The struggle is reflected in the students' performance on the
state's functional tests.

In Maryland last year, 41 percent of ESOL ninth-graders who took the reading
test failed, compared with 5 percent of all ninth-graders. The disparity was not
as great on the math and writing tests, but even on those, the ESOL students'
failure rate was nearly twice as high.

Maryland School Superintendent Nancy S. Grasmick defended the functional test
requirement. "These are considered minimal standards for graduation," she said.
"We think the diploma has to represent something, and what it represents is that
the student has mastered that minimal level."

Some teachers, such as High Point's Nahmani, said the state should give students
who pass all their courses but fail the functional tests a certificate to
recognize that they survived four years of school.

"It's really important for the State of Maryland to understand that all kids are
not the same," she said. "It's such a disappointment to these kids not to be
able to go through the senior ritual of graduation."

Several teachers said they are concerned about the potential effect on the ESOL
students of Maryland's plan to increase the course work needed for graduation.

"The more requirements they put up there, the harder it is and the more
drop-outs they'll have," Bellino said.

NEXT: Many immigrant students face other challenges.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IMMIGRANTS, Part 1 of 2

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, AFTER YEARS OF STUDY, CHEK SEM PASSED A FUNCTIONAL WRITING TEST
ON HIS EIGHTH TRY. MARY LOU FOY

TYPE: FEATURE, SERIES

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              166 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 25, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

For Immigrants, Tough Lessons;
Economic, Family Woes Add to Classroom Challenge

Erin Marcus, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 1061 words


Nha Ton, a 17-year-old who was too poor to attend school in his native Vietnam,
views his high school classes in Wheaton as the key to his future success.

Yet when he arrives at school in the morning, he sometimes puts his head down on
his desk and takes a nap.

"He sleeps in class," said Clara Brown, his English teacher at John F. Kennedy
High School. "I said, 'Why are you sleeping?' and he said, 'Because I worked
last night.' "

Ton, who left Vietnam four years ago, regularly cleans offices until 10 at night
and then reports to school at 7:30 the next morning. He said he needs to work to
support himself and his mother.

His financial situation, teachers say, is typical of that of many recent
immigrant students. In addition to learning English and making up for years of
missed schooling, these students must confront other problems that often
complicate their academic lives: poverty, hunger and turbulent family
situations, teachers say.

"Academically they need to catch up with the rest of the student population,"
said Nivea Berrios, who teaches students in the English for Speakers of Other
Languages (ESOL) program at Silver Spring's Springbrook High School.

"But it's extremely difficult because of their lack of food, their lack of
clothing, [and] a family structure which is dysfunctional."

One indication of the widespread poverty among these students is the number who
qualify for free or reduced-price meals at school. In Montgomery County, which
has nearly 6,400 ESOL students, the most of any school district in Maryland or
in the Washington area, more than 65 percent of the students qualify for free
and reduced-price lunches, compared with 17 percent of all Montgomery students,
officials say.

The students' financial neediness also is evident in Berrios's classroom, where
cans of beans and boxes of rice sit on a shelf once occupied by books. On the
floor rests a trash bag stuffed with clothes, there for students to rummage
through when they need a sweater or coat.

"I feel obligated because I am a human being and I know they are in desperate
need," said Berrios, who estimates that she spends nearly as much time taking
care of students' personal needs, such as food, clothing, and housing, as
preparing lessons and teaching class. "If I don't look out for them, who will?"

Elsy Lozano, a 16-year-old from El Salvador, said that if it were not for the
free breakfast and lunch she gets at school and the donated clothes and food she
gets from Berrios, she would "try to find a job -- and would leave school,
definitely."

Lozano lives with her mother, three brothers and a niece in a two-bedroom, $
615-a-month apartment in Silver Spring on an income that she says totals less
than $ 1,000 a month. Although she feels she has more opportunities in the
United States than she did in El Salvador, she said it is not the land of plenty
she had imagined.

"In El Salvador they talk a lot about the U.S., it was the promised land," she
said through an interpreter. "And when I came and looked out the window, I was
so upset -- is this what they were talking about? I saw people screaming, babies
crying, dirt in the street and said, 'This is exactly the same.' "

Berrios said she worries about what would happen if Lozano left school, because
"she doesn't have the skills to succeed. . . . Sometimes Elsy is out of this
world, sometimes instead of studying her mind goes to other things."

But Berrios said Lozano is lucky compared with some of her peers, because her
village in El Salvador was largely spared from the war and her family is
relatively stable.

Other students, Berrios and others said, are struggling with their memories of
war and are estranged from parents they were separated from for years.

Many of the parents came here alone to establish themselves, then sent for their
children years later. Montgomery's ESOL population includes more than 870
students from El Salvador, 470 from Vietnam and 95 from Cambodia.

"There are kids who have been through things we cannot fathom," said Marion
LaNeve, who directs a program in Montgomery County for elementary and middle
school ESOL students. "Their stories are incredible."

Often, teachers say, the turbulence of the students' personal lives spills over
into the classroom. At one Montgomery middle school last year, school board
member Sharon DiFonzo said several students dived under their desks when they
heard an emergency siren, thinking it was a bomb warning.

"All of a sudden this one kid goes diving down under the desk and the two other
kids start yammering at the teacher a million miles an hour," DiFonzo said. "In
her country, sirens were not the sounds of a rescue vehicle, sirens were
threatening sounds."

To help students deal with their psychological trauma and other problems,
Montgomery County has one bilingual assessment team. The team, which has four
full-time members, evaluates and seeks help for ESOL students who may have
psychological disorders, learning disabilities and other problems.

With only four evaluators and many schools to serve, however, the team is so
swamped with requests that some students wait a year to be seen.

"We have a backlog and it gets bigger every year," said Ana Bishop, the team's
psychologist. She added that the team has seen 266 students so far this year, up
from 123 four years ago.

Montgomery school board member Ana Sol Gutierrez points to this backlog as
evidence that ESOL students are not being adequately served.

"If this population were anything other than a new immigrant minority
population, the services that they're getting would be unacceptable and we as a
school system would have to provide a higher level of service," she said. "There
are kids who are not learning disabled and are wasting time; there are kids who
are learning disabled who are not getting the services."

Despite the traumas that many of these students have experienced, Bishop and
others say they often see strength and hope among them.

Ton, the Kennedy High School student, is one of those with hope. After surviving
in Vietnam by helping his mother find cans in the street, he isn't complaining
about having to juggle work and school.

"I like school. I want to learn the language so I can speak to American people,"
said Ton, who wants to be an auto mechanic.

"Here, I got better life," he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IMMIGRANTS, Part 2 of 2

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, NIVEA BERRIOS, AN ESOL TEACHER AT SPRINGBROOK HIGH SCHOOL, SORTS
THROUGH CLOTHES WITH ELY LOZANO. DAYNA SMITH

TYPE: SERIES, DC NEWS, MARYLAND NEWS, VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              167 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 25, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

In America, Everyone Stands in Line

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 740 words


As I read Sheng-mei Ma's article, I wanted to simultaneously laugh and cry
["America's Unwelcome Mat," Outlook, May 17]. As a native-born American, I have
spent the better part of the past two years dealing with Social Security
Disability Retirement, the Office of Personnel Management, the Internal Revenue
Service and other governmental agencies. They are all the same, and, sadly, no
different than the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The most poignant line in Mr. Ma's article was his conclusion that "in a
democracy, all immigrants are created equal; one is just as worthless as the
other." There are three misconceptions here: (1) that somehow in a democracy one
is exempt from bureaucratic entanglements, delays or incompetencies; (2) that
because Mr. Ma is educated he should be treated differently; and (3) that the
treatment Mr. Ma received was limited to immigrants.

Let me assure Mr. Ma that the supposition of his article is wrong. He has indeed
arrived as an American citizen and is being treated exactly as every other
American citizen is treated by the bureaucracy. I am not an immigrant, I am
equally educated and I would not even want to begin to list the hurdles I have
had to jump simply to get through the system(s), let alone to get what I
rightfully deserve as an American citizen. If Mr. Ma has managed for 18 years to
avoid American bureaucracy, he is indeed lucky. If he wants to experience and
enjoy democracy, then this was only the beginning.

DAYNA M. TOLLEY Locust Grove, Va.

As an immigration attorney, I would like to respond to Sheng-mei Ma's tirade in
the Outlook section. First, I am sorry that Mr. Ma felt that he had to "abandon
all dignity" simply by having to stand in line in order to have a permanent
resident interview. There are thousands of foreign nationals who would gladly
trade places with him.

As for wanting special treatment because his skills are needed in the United
States, Sheng-mei Ma has already been granted the ability to obtain permanent
residence much more quickly than in the past. The new law that prevented him
from filing the Form I-140 at the same time as his application for permanent
residence also created a special category for persons like him with "needed"
skills. Thus, Mr. Ma will not have to wait the many years that other, "unneeded"
workers will face.

Finally, no one will have to wait in line again to be interviewed. As of May 15,
1992, the Arlington INS office will no longer provide the much appreciated
walk-in system because of a large influx of applicants due to the new law.
Interviews will now be provided by appointment only. If the appointments take up
to 10 months, like those at the Baltimore INS office, I am sure applicants would
have rather waited in line. DARYL SUE CAPLAN Laurel

As an attorney who practices immigration law, I know firsthand the horrors of
the INS bureaucracy. However if Sheng-mei Ma's basic beef was that despite his
being a "college professor with a PhD," he was treated the same as a "wetback or
a boat person," then I am glad that the INS bureaucracy put Mr. Ma through the
wringer.

Maybe in Mr. Ma's mind a PhD entitles him to different treatment from the U.S.
government. However, when he goes to the INS offices, he will have to stand in
line just like everyone else. JOSE PERTIERRA Washington

My heart bleeds, up to a point, for Sheng-mei Ma, PhD. I can sympathize with
anyone who has to wait in line for long hours to ultimately receive limited
attention -- deserved or otherwise. While Mr. Ma's complaint mixes sarcasm with
sincerity, he seems to find the indignities and inconveniences he suffered
acceptable for would-be wetbacks and boat people.

The bleeding lessens.

Is his complaint that America does not welcome immigrants valid when he has been
here since 1982 enjoying the opportunity to get an education and being
temporarily allowed to work to help sustain himself?

Was his education supported by a U.S. taxpayer-subsidized scholarship for
foreign students?

Is his notion of deserved privilege ("I have a PhD. I belong to a different
category") valid when he knowingly is violating the terms of his student (J-1)
visa by not returning to his country after graduation to apply for immigrant
status?

The bleeding has stopped.

I see Sheng-mei Ma as just another loophole-leaper seeking to beat the system by
invoking the influence of Congress.  CHARLES R. MATHEWS Vienna

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              168 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 27, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cutter Ferries 38 to Haiti Under New Rules;
Policy Canceling Asylum Interviews at Guantanamo Confuses Boat People

Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 1038 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, May 26, 1992


The Coast Guard cutter Escanaba unloaded 38 Haitians here today -- the first to
be returned to their homeland under the Bush administration's new policy
designed to keep the boat people off the high seas.

The return was marked by confusion, misinformation and anxiety as American and
Haitian Red Cross officials attempted several times to explain to the fearful
returnees that they were free to apply for asylum at the U.S. Consulate here.

Of the thousands of Haitians who have been returned here by the Coast Guard
since a bloody army coup last fall, those arriving today were the first not to
have been given the chance to apply for political asylum in the United States.

In an executive order Sunday, President Bush shifted U.S. policy by ordering the
Coast Guard to return all Haitians rescued at sea immediately to their country,
without interviews or processing by U.S. immigration officials. As for those
boat people who believe they should be admitted into the United States as
political refugees, the White House recommended they apply at the consulate
here.

Most of today's returnees, on hearing this read in Creole, reacted with vacant
stares and whispered asides to journalists that they were afraid of retaliation
from the army if they appeared at the consulate to apply for asylum.

A U.S. Embassy official initially told journalists that three of the boat people
had asked to apply for asylum at the consulate. It turned out that the three he
was referring to were children in need of medical attention.

The other returnees seemed confused about their options until journalists
informed them they could still apply. A Red Cross official then repeated the
explanation, and eventually 17 returnees were taken to the consulate for a
preliminary interview.

"What do you think will happen if I go to the embassy?" asked Destin Wilson, 20,
who said he paid $ 120 for his passage and had been at sea for five days before
the Coast Guard intercepted his rickety boat Monday. "Do you think I'll have
problems with the army?"

U.S. officials insist there is no risk involved for Haitians who apply for
asylum. But judging from recent experience, neither is there much hope for
success.

Of 279 Haitians who have contacted the consulate since February, nine have been
admitted to the United States with plausible claims that they merit political
asylum. That works out to about two individuals a month.

Another 113 were turned away by the consulate without an interview and 72 were
rejected after speaking to an officer. Seven have been approved for entry to the
United States but are awaiting health and other clearances, and six others are
having their stories checked. An additional 72 are awaiting interviews, which
are taking place at a rate of six a day.

The small rate of success for Haitians seeking to leave the poverty and violence
of their homeland by applying to the consulate is in stark contrast to the
experience of some 34,000 Haitian boat people who have been rescued by Coast
Guard ships since last fall and processed by U.S. immigration officials at the
U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo, Cuba.

About a third of the 27,000 already interviewed there -- some 9,000 -- have been
cleared for entrance into the United States by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service since last fall.

The Bush administration has said facilities here will be expanded but until now
the consulate generally has not accepted walk-ins. Instead, it has required all
applicants to write or phone for an appointment. The overwhelming majority of
Haitians are illiterate and have no access to a telephone.

The Bush administration, in announcing the new policy Sunday, said it was
necessary because the processing facility and accommodations at Guantanamo were
overwhelmed and the seven Coast Guard cutters in the area were full of Haitians
as well.

"The safety of Haitians is best assured by remaining in their country," the
White House statement said.

One embassy official said today that according to his personal estimate, some 80
to 88 percent of all Haitians would go to the United States if they could. The
official added that in his view, only two to five of every 1,000 Haitian
refugees picked up by the Coast Guard had plausible claims for political asylum.
Another estimated that no more than 5 percent deserved to be admitted to the
United States.

Other U.S. officials said that what they characterized as naive INS
interviewers, unfamiliar with social realities in Haiti, were hoodwinked by the
boat people they interviewed at Guantanamo into granting so many requests for
political asylum.

To establish a plausible claim for political asylum and be admitted to the
United States, Haitians must prove that they fall into at least one at-risk
category: that they have a justifiable, immediate fear for their lives; that
they hold a sensitive position in a persecuted political or religious
organization or held one in the government of ousted president Jean-Bertrand
Aristide; or that they worked in such positions as radio journalists that are
likely to attract repression.

The torrent of Haitian boat people began after the violent army coup that ousted
the democratically elected Aristide Sept. 30. The United States and other
countries in the hemisphere responded with a crippling economic embargo that
cost some 150,000 Haitians their jobs, according to U.S. government estimates.

Today, Aristide lives in exile in Venezuela, military repression continues
against those who overtly demonstrate their support of the ousted leader, and
Haiti's main export has become people, who say they are fleeing a land devoid of
hope, liberty and employment.

Aristide, who won a landslide victory in this country's first free elections in
December 1990, continues to command the support of a large majority of his
countrymen, by all available evidence.

In a poll last month by Radio Metropole, the most respected radio news station
in Haiti, about 60 percent of respondents said they thought Aristide or his
choice for prime minister, Rene Theodore, were the leaders "capable of managing
the current crisis." The next most popular answer, former president Leslie
Manigat, was backed by just 16 percent.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HAITIANS PICKED UP AT SEA BY CUTTER ESCANABA AWAIT PROCESSING IN
PORT-AU-PRINCE. EVENTUALLY, 17 APPLIED AT U.S. CONSULATE TO SEEK ASYLUM. AFP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              169 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 28, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Bush Strongly Defends Policy of Returning Haitians;
'I Will Not Open the Doors to Economic Refugees From All Over the World,'
President Says

Ann Devroy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, May 27, 1992


President Bush today staunchly defended his new policy of forcibly returning
fleeing Haitian refugees to their homeland, saying America will not permit entry
to those he described as primarily economic, not political, refugees.

"We still open our arms to . . . the politically oppressed," Bush said. "But we
cannot and I will not open the doors to economic refugees from all over the
world."

Bush was abruptly confronted with a hostile question about the new Haitian
policy at the end of a question-and-answer session, held at a private religious
school here, that had dealt primarily with social issues.

Under the new policy, which was announced Saturday, the Coast Guard was ordered
to intercept boats of Haitian refugees and return them to Haiti, rather than
taking them to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to process their
claims.

At the end of the session at Mount Paran Christian School in suburban Marietta,
a black parent rose to his feet to ask Bush to explain a policy the questioner
said "runs counter to what America has stood for" in its historical open-door
policy for immigrants.

The president described the more than 30,000 Haitians who have fled their
homeland in the past six weeks as primarily economic refugees. Those who are
not, he said, can make their pleas for political asylum at the U.S. Embassy in
Haiti, not at Guantanamo or in Florida.

"Not to be mean about it," Bush said, "we're trying to say, listen, we've got to
live by the laws of the land."

He denied the policy was racially motivated against the predominantly black
Haitians, a charge some critics have made. "I vehemently deny, that's not the
case because these people have a right to be screened," Bush said.

Bush likened the situation in Haiti to a bazaar, where hapless refugees were
being taken advantage of by those seeking exorbitant fees for rickety boat
rides, and described the new U.S. policy as putting a compassionate end to such
extortion by dissuading potential travelers from making the trip.

Bush said he has been assured that the United States can monitor those refugees
returned to Haiti, to ensure they are not harmed. Otherwise, he said, "I would
not want [their return] on my conscience."

Earlier today, Bush told midshipmen in a commencement speech at the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis that the U.S. military will remain a premier force under
his stewardship.

"America's forces will continue to be the best-trained, the best-equipped and
most battle-ready forces anywhere in the entire world," Bush pledged in a tepid
speech that was interrupted only once by applause.

Bush abandoned his call for a "new world order," used in the wake of the Persian
Gulf War, to speak instead of a world in which ethnic conflicts, such as those
in Yugoslavia, are more likely to engender bloodshed than ideological conflicts
of the Cold War.

"Ancient hatred, ethnic rivalries frozen in time, threaten to revive themselves
and to reignite," he said, asking that the "hopeful aspects of the new
nationalism" across the globe not be turned to negative ends.

Bush said America has repeatedly proven it can lead in time of war. "But as a
nation we have yet to prove that we can lead when there is no enemy on the
doorstep."

He called on the nation to support American engagement in foreign policy. "We
have proved . . . we can win the war, and now we must wage the peace," Bush
said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              170 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 29, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Phasing Out Tent City for Haitian Refugees at Guantanamo Bay

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A24

LENGTH: 691 words


The administration announced yesterday it is phasing out the tent city for
Haitian refugees at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, because the
facility was enticing more Haitians to flee their troubled island.

State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the decision was made "to phase
out the facility . . . because it was increasingly clear that it was acting as a
magnet and causing more Haitians to get on boats in the hopes of getting there."

Boucher said he did not "want to speculate on exactly how soon and how long that
will happen or how exactly that will happen" because he did not "want to
preclude other options."

In a related development, President Bush yesterday ordered all U.S. ports closed
to ships that ignore the U.S.-backed trade embargo of Haiti, an embargo that has
devastated the country's economy. Bush also said he would make it easier for
Haitians to receive refugee status at the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince,
sending embassy officials to the countryside to receive applications.

The administration on Saturday said Coast Guard ships no longer will take
Haitian boat people intercepted at sea to Guantanamo Bay to review their
political asylum requests, a procedure followed since November. Instead, the
Coast Guard began forcibly returning the refugees it picked up.

The Coast Guard has intercepted more than 35,000 Haitians since a Sept. 30
military coup ousted the country's first elected president, Jean Bertrand
Aristide. About 15,000 have been sent back, while 9,000 have been admitted to
the United States to pursue requests for asylum. More than 600 boat people were
intercepted at sea Wednesday for return to Haiti, Boucher said.

Officials said it will take about two weeks for Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) officers to complete screening the 11,300 boat people still at the
Guantanamo Bay camp. The camp was set up in November after a federal judge
banned deportations of the boat people unless their claims were considered. The
INS has found that about 30 percent of the Haitians have plausible claims to
political asylum.

Bush on Wednesday insisted that the majority of boat people were economic
migrants, not refugees, and said those who had legitimate claims for asylum
could present them to the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince, an alternative derided
by refugee advocates as unrealistic because of widespread fear and increasing
political violence in the country.

Boucher said about 300 people have applied for asylum at the embassy and the
number of inquiries about the program have increased in recent days, as has the
violence.

"We condemn this violence and call on all Haitians to work to restore
democracy," Boucher said. He added that the administration had not yet responded
to criticism of the new policy by U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Sadako
Ogata. In a letter to Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, Ogata
said she was "deeply disturbed" by the new policy of denying boat people any
opportunity to present their claims for asylum.

In New York yesterday, lawyers for Haitian refugees asked a federal judge to
block more forced repatriations, saying the new policy was "brutal" and an "act
of profound lawlessness" that violated the Haitians' rights.

In another development, the San Diego Union-Tribune reported yesterday that U.S.
Navy commandos had staged a daring raid in Haiti eight weeks ago to rescue
former unnamed officials of Aristide's government.

Defense Department sources yesterday confirmed that Navy Seals had rescued a
small number of Haitian officials, but said the episode occurred before
Christmas, and declined to provide further details.

More recently, at about the time cited in the San Diego newspaper, two key
Aristide cabinet members escaped by fleeing on mules over the mountains into the
Dominican Republic, also on the island of Hispaniola. A knowledgeable Pentagon
source said Foreign Minister Jean-Robert Sabalat and Public Works Minister
Frantz Verella had received "maps and some advice" from nonmilitary U.S.
government personnel.

Staff writer John Lancaster contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              171 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 31, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Report Says Border Police Abuse Rights

Edward Cody, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 30, 1992


The human rights monitoring group Americas Watch charged today that the U.S.
Border Patrol routinely commits "appalling" human rights abuses against Mexicans
caught sneaking into the United States.

The accusation, in the group's first examination of Border Patrol conduct,
buttressed long-standing and frequent Mexican government complaints about the
treatment received by hundreds of thousands of Mexicans who cross the border
illegally in search of employment.

"Beatings, rough physical treatment and racially motivated verbal abuse are
routine," Americas Watch reported. "Even more serious abuses, including
unjustified shootings, torture and sexual abuse, occur. When they do,
investigations are almost invariably perfunctory, and the offending agents
escape punishment."

In Washington, INS spokesman Duke Austin was critical of the Americas Watch
report, although he acknowledged that he had not yet read it. He said the report
contained little, if any, first-hand information and relied heavily on newspaper
reports and interviews conducted by outside groups.

"We have an allegation of abuse in one out of every 17,000 arrests," Austin
said, "and I can tell you that very few of those [allegations] are ever
substantiated."

The charges provided a counterpoint to a number of Americas Watch reports in the
past that have accused Mexican authorities of failing to punish police here for
similar human rights abuses. "This is the flip side of that coin," said Susan
Osnos, an Americas Watch spokeswoman at the group's home office in New York.

The report was issued two days after U.S. and Mexican officials concluded two
days of meetings in Washington with a pledge to set up new mechanisms for speedy
resolution of complaints against the Border Patrol. The meetings were requested
by Mexico after a recent series of border incidents indignantly reported in the
Mexico City press and denounced by government officials as violations of Mexican
immigrants' human rights.

About 80 Mexican protests over border incidents have been lodged with the United
States since 1985. Among the complaints has been that some Border Patrol agents
are too quick to use firearms against unarmed Mexican illegal immigrants, and
that those agents who do so are never subjected to criminal prosecution.

Americas Watch declared that Border Patrol human rights abuses are similar to
those in other countries, such as Mexico, that have come under critical scrutiny
in the past and that "the response of the U.S. government is as defensive and
unyielding as the responses of many of the most abusive governments."

The Border Patrol, whose agents help man legal crossings along the 2,000-mile
border and guard against illegal entry at other points, is the enforcement arm
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a part of the Justice Department.

"One reason Immigration and Naturalization Service misconduct is so pervasive is
that the agency does not adequately train or supervise its agents," the Americas
Watch report said. "In a September 1991 report, the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Justice lambasted the INS for the widespread
failure of its agents to comply with firearms training and qualification
requirements, and for the agency's failure to train agents adquately on the duty
to report shootings and other uses of force."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              172 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 6, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Policy Appears to Deter Haitian Refugees;
State Department Asks OAS to Consider Sending Mission to Help Restore Democracy,
Order

Al Kamen, John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A7

LENGTH: 1315 words


Fewer Haitians appear to be fleeing their island by boat as a result of the Bush
administration's May 24 decision to force back virtually anyone found trying to
leave by sea.

The number of people intercepted by the Coast Guard showed little change for the
first few days after President Bush announced the policy; more than 1,000
Haitians were picked up on May 29, for example.

But none has been picked up in the last two days, administration officials said,
and only four boats were intercepted in the prior three days. They expressed
cautious optimism that the exodus would continue to slow, enabling them to shut
down a tent city on the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where Haitian
refugees had been taken until immigration officials could examine their asylum
requests.

In addition, the State Department yesterday asked members of the Organization of
American States to consider sending an OAS-sponsored mission to help restore
democracy and maintain security in Haiti.

Administration officials said that a cable outlining U.S. ideas for the mission
was sent to several members of the 34-nation OAS. The sources cautioned,
however, that there is no indication the plan would be acceptable to deposed
Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was overthrown by the military in
a Sept. 30 coup, or to the nation's current military government.

The latest plan is a variant of previous ideas that have been rejected. This
time, the officials said, the plan spells out clearly that the civilian mission
would have some kind of security component. The proposal last October also spoke
of maintaining security, but under the new plan, officials said, "security"
would mean some kind of military force, both to protect OAS civilians and to act
as a buffer between the Haitian military and Arisitide's supporters.

The precise composition, size and origin of this security force has not been
resolved, the officials said. They stressed that under no circumstances would it
be an invasion force imposed on Haiti but would have to be invited to the
Caribbean nation. The U.S. cable said, however, that if the OAS was not amenable
to sending a security force, the United Nations might be considered as an
alternative. If these proposals are accepted, the officials said, the OAS would
lift its economic embargo imposed last October that has wrecked Haiti's economy.

Major players in the Haitian political scheme -- the military, Aristide and
other prominent political and business leaders -- would first have to make a
consensus choice of a prime minister, who would assume control of the government
and prepare the way for Arisitide's return.

Some officials said the new plan, first reported in today's editions of the New
York Times, was prompted by the nomination Tuesday of Marc Bazin as prime
minister. Bazin is a former Haitian finance minister and World Bank executive
who has close ties to Haiti's business leaders. U.S. officials said there is
concern among OAS members that Bazin's appointment by the military government
might exacerbate the confrontation between the opposing sides.

Much of the problem stems from the fact that the coup originated among
rank-and-file soldiers who feared Aristide's vows to radically reform the army,
The soldiers have exercised a veto over the army's commander, Gen. Raoul Cedras,
frustrating his past attempts to reach a settlement with the OAS.

While there have been reports of dissension within the Haitian armed forces, a
senior U.S. official said last night, "We have no indication that the army still
is not firmly in control of Haiti, just the vaguest hints of some strain."

In New York, a federal judge yesterday decided not to stop the forced
repatriations of refugees, an action one official said would reinforce the
administration's message that it was not worth it to try to leave Haiti.

Since the coup, "the numbers [of boat people] have gone up and down," a State
Department official said, "so no one is going to make a definitive prediction"
that the numbers of refugees will not go up again. "But people are not setting
off as much as before," he said, and "it appears the policy is having that
effect."

"One thing that's for certain," a U.S. official said in Port-au-Prince, "the
word is out. People do know" about the change in policy. "It's out there in the
provinces" with constant radio broadcasts. "We've blanketed the airwaves with
the announcement," he said.

Several Haitians interviewed yesterday near Petit Goave, a departure center
about 50 miles southwest of Port-au-Prince, said they were aware of the policy.

Mackino Virgil, 26, who said he had been sent back from Guantanamo Bay twice,
said, "fewer people are taking boats now because they know they are just going
to lose their money. They are not keeping Haitians in Guantanamo, they are
closing the base down."

Virgil, who said he sold everything he owned and borrowed money to pay for his
two trips -- $ 40 for the first and $ 60 for the second -- said he heard about
the new policy on teledyol, a Creole expression for word of mouth. He said he
might try again at some point.

He and several other Haitians said local police had begun to harass and crack
down on people trying to build boats in which to flee, but no one was sure why
the police had adopted that policy after months of looking the other way.

Virgil said that for now he was not going to try to leave. "Right now, people
wouldn't take the chance. . . . Nobody is going to pay money for this now," he
said. But he said there was no work in Haiti and no security.

Joblessness and poverty have increased as a result of the economic embargo
designed to force the return of democracy to Haiti. Critics have said the
embargo is only causing needless suffering and is not tight enough to have any
effect on the military-backed government or its wealthy supporters.

As Virgil spoke, four cargo ships anchored at the busy contraband port unloaded
cargo onto dozens of rowboats. Some of the cargo included boxes labeled toilet
paper from Hialeah, Fla., and wheat flour from Omaha.

Some Haitians said they would try to flee again despite the new policy. "I'm
just not staying here," said Jose Luis Oreste, 21, a mechanic who was returned
from Guantanamo Bay in April. "I'm living in a country that does not offer you
any opportunities."

At the same time, the administration has accelerated the numbers returned from
the Navy base in Cuba. In addition to 2,878 returned directly to Haiti since May
25, more than 4,000 have been sent back from Guantanamo Bay. The new policy
requires those seeking asylum to apply in Haiti and eases the criteria for
approval. A U.S. official at the embassy said yesterday that about 2,400
Haitians had applied in recent weeks.

Since the new policy, the population at Guantanamo Bay dropped from just over
the 12,500 level that U.S. officials insist is the most the base can hold, to
about 8,600 yesterday. Among them are more than 2,600 who have been granted
approval to come to the United States to pursue their asylum claims, and more
than 2,700 others whose claims have been denied and are awaiting return to
Haiti. The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated that processing the
remaining applicants will be completed within two weeks.

In the New York court ruling, U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. said he
had no choice but to uphold the administration's policy even though the Haitians
might be headed to "the jaws of political persecution, terror, death and
uncertainty" when the United States had a treaty saying it would not do so.

An attorney for the refugee groups who sued to block the policy said the ruling
would be appealed. Other suits are pending in the New York appeals court and in
an appeals court in Atlanta.

Staff writer Lee Hockstader contributed to this report from Port-au-Prince.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, GROUNDED

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              173 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 7, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Into the Melting Pot

Nicholas Lemann

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; PAGE X4

LENGTH: 932 words


A NATION OF STRANGERS

Prejudice, Politics And the Populating of America

By Ellis Cose

Morrow. 299 pp. $ 25

ONE OF the fundamental paradoxes of American life is that while we're one of the
few nations in the history of the world that can plausibly claim to be a
workable multi-ethnic society, for hundreds of years we've had consistent
opposition to the engine of our diversity, immigration. Even as we stage
self-congratulatory celebrations of immigration like the Ellis Island
centennial, we maintain serious legal restrictions on entry to the United
States.

Not only that, the immigration issue has only intermittently been structured as
a simple argument between the prejudiced and the enlightened. Among the
consistent opponents of immigration have been organized labor, which fears that
new workers will be used to break strikes and drive down wages, and newly
assimilated former immigrants, who don't want their fragile social acceptance
upset. The pro-immigration forces usually include such unlikely friends of the
oppressed as plantation owners and the operators of sweatshops. Practically
nobody (except libertarians so pure they could never be elected to office)
advocates completely open borders.

Nevertheless the country has in recent decades moved by fits and starts toward a
looser, more tolerant immigration policy. We now allow hundreds of thousands of
immigrants to enter the country legally every year, and some areas, like the
Eastern Seaboard, sustain record-high levels of immigration without its even
being very controversial. This is a far cry from the situation for most of the
20th century, when laws like the notorious Immigration Act of 1924 kept legal
immigration levels extremely low, and tried to ensure that as many as possible
of the immigrants who were admitted would be white Northern Europeans.

The starting point for Ellis Cose's interest in the subject of immigration seems
to have been the long, wrenching congressional debates on the subject during the
1980s, which were centered on a bill known colloquially around town as
Simpson-Mazzoli. The bill was prompted mainly by the sense that illegal
immigration over the Mexican border had gotten out of control; it was supposed
to tighten up the border while conferring citizenship on the preceding
generation of illegal aliens. Although the American Establishment, such as it
is, enthusiastically backed the bill, it took years to pass, because achieving a
consensus on the subject in the House of Representatives proved to be nearly
impossible. The most vivid and interesting section of A Nation of Strangers is a
long history of the bill (including interviews with its authors) that
demonstrates that, in the minds of Hispanic politicians, the line between a
crackdown on Mexican immigration and harassment of Mexican-Americans was fine to
the point of invisibility.

At the same time, the issue of immigration was emerging in other venues:
southern Florida, in the wake of the Mariel boatlift from Cuba and an influx of
Haitians, was consumed by intra-ethnic hostilities; English-only legislation was
introduced in state legislatures and in Congress; refugees from the communist
victory in Vietnam were the objects of hostility and violence. What seems to
have been Cose's plan was to broaden a treatment of contemporary immigration
conflicts into a much more ambitious project: a history of xenophobia in the
United States.

To judge by the finished product, this was a tactical mistake. He has come up
with a long, horrifying series of examples of past anti-immigrant attitudes and
actions, including most notably the bitter prejudice against Asians during the
mid-1800s and the Anglo-Saxon genetic- superiority theories of the turn of the
century. Quoting old predictions of ethnic disasters that never materialized has
the effect of making present-day worries about immigration seem emotional and
overwrought.

But this material takes up more than half of the book. It is based on a broad
but not deep reading of secondary sources, and Cose presents it in a deadpan
style that doesn't allow for much use of analysis, characterization or any of
the other techniques that make history come alive. Even his section on the 1980s
is full of quotes from newspaper and magazine articles, which are never as
lively as the material from Cose's own interviews, and it seems to be written on
the assumption that if you merely recount the story step by step, readers will
automatically get the point.

The result is that not until the book's epilogue does Cose say directly what he
thinks about immigration policy; previously, his attitude appears to be that all
worries about immigration are absurd, but he never argues his position through.
When it finally comes, his declaration is interesting: He believes that "America
has had more of a problem with color than with simple ethnicity," which means
that light-skinned immigrants will be able to join the mainstream far more
easily than darker-skinned ones -- and more easily than some African-Americans
who aren't immigrants at all. It would have been great, though, to have had from
Cose a truly comprehensive guide to what to think about immigration, and a case
made for what level of restriction would be reasonable. Instead he has merely
demonstrated a single important truth, which is that ethnocentric hysteria about
immigration has always existed, and always been misplaced.

Nicholas Lemann is a national correspondent for the Atlantic and author of "The
Promised Land: The Great Black Migration and How It Changed America."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: REVIEW

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              174 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 13, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

A Welcome Mat for Immigrants?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 1152 words


As director of the Arlington Office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, I am concerned that Sheng-Mei Ma ["America's Unwelcome Mat," Outlook,
May 17] had a bad experience at our severely overtaxed office. His complaints
about the need to wait in line and overcrowded conditions reflect genuine
problems; his indignation at having to wait in line with others he believes to
be socially inferior does not.

Fortunately, America operates very much on a first-come, first-served basis.
College professors, like waitresses and mechanics, all pass through our doors,
but the law in this country is applied the same no matter what your status.

Dr. Ma refers to a woman in a fur coat who he states was obviously an attorney.
The woman in question is, in fact, an attorney and, when asked about the
incident, was astonished that Dr. Ma had the audacity to complain in print. His
behavior in line, according to the attorney, was inappropriate. While in line he
asked questions regarding the I-140 approval repeatedly for more than 20 minutes
of the individual he so rudely nicknamed "Charon."

The attorney states that she interceded and told Dr. Ma that the District Office
could not adjudicate his adjustment petition unless his employer's application
was approved by the Immigration and Naturalization Service Regional Processing
Center. She told him as did the District employee while he was still in line
that the regulations had changed in October 1991 and that the instructions had
been revised at the same point. Despite her efforts, he entered the office
believing, as he himself stated, that he did not belong with the immigrants
around him, that he was a college professor and in a different category.

Dr. Ma says he thinks he received bad information from INS. He states, however,
after rethinking the episode, "It's got to be my fault." It is not correct,
however, to simply state it was Dr. Ma's fault or the fault of the Immigration
Service. The Washington District Office services approximately 4,000 people a
week with infrequent complaints. Mistakes are sometimes made, but this office
emphasizes courteous and equitable service to the public. It is a shame that a
negative article, among thousands of commendations, was published.

The one-step, walk-in procedure, which Dr. Ma found to be such a trial, was
intended as an expedited service to the public when it was implemented about 10
years ago. In one day, an applicant and his family could complete the paper work
necessary for adjustment and could leave the building with work authorization.
For many years, this proved to be an ideal system. With the ever-increasing
workload, the trade-off for this service has become increasingly long lines and,
more recently, overnight waits.

Because of an overwhelming workload, I determined in April that we must adopt a
scheduling process. People will now mail in their applications for adjustment
and will be notified of appointments for their adjustment interviews rather than
be able to choose when to come. I have left in place, at the urging of many in
the community, the work authorization one-step program. Under this program, 50
work-authorization appointments will be available each Monday, Tuesday, Thursday
and Friday for adjustment candidates who must obtain work authorization
immediately. The actual adjustment interview will be held at a later time.

I regret Dr. Ma's perception of procedural problems. The fact is that every
effort is made each day to provide swift and efficient service to the public.

WILLIAM J. CARROLL District Director Immigration and Naturalization Service U.S.
Department of Justice Arlington I am intrigued by the public reaction to my
article in the Outlook section on May 17. Four readers' responses to my article
in the Letters to the Editor on May 25 demonstrate two things:

(1) The letters are all hostile to my account. None of them addresses the
central issue of the degrading treatment of immigrants by the INS. Instead, they
misread my article and singled out one episode -- namely, my self-mocking
reflection on my PhD and its lack of impact on my application for a green card.
Their hidden strategy is that by launching a personal attack against me, they
can portray me as a conceited and biased person and consequently discredit my
witness account, which reveals a faulty system in the United States.

I believe their attack reflects the larger anti-immigrant phenomenon in the
United States. In a time of economic recession, mainstream America has to find
some sort of scapegoat to place the blame of hardship and to take out its
frustration. Some graphic examples of this trend are the destruction of
Korean-owned stores in Los Angeles and the unabated anti-Japanese sentiment in
this country, a sentiment often encouraged and manipulated by politicians.
Moreover, since recent immigrants are either from Asia or from Latin America,
they are easily identified and convenient targets.

As long as these immigrants keep quiet and suffer mutely, mainstream America is
willing to put up with them. Once someone blows the whistle and points out the
injustice, people such as those who wrote the letters explode in anger. One such
letter that I received told me to "go back to where [I] came from" and called me
"an intruder and interloper." The writer has forgotten that his ancestors had
"interloped" in the land of American Indians. His existence on this land is
legitimized more by political power that his ancestors robbed from Native
Americans than by "natural" birthright.

Also, these letters start from the implied assumption of cultural chauvinism:
The United States is the greatest country in the world; therefore, immigrants
flood to this country. This can be borne out by an attorney's letter which
claimed that "thousands of foreign nationals . . . would gladly trade places
with [me]." History tells us that such complacency had doomed empires even
greater than the United States. If, for the time being, one does not learn
humility and treat as equals others who may appear to be less fortunate, mishap
is bound to follow.

(2) None of the letters was from immigrants forced to go through the same
grueling process as I. It is strange that even though I had received quite a few
supportive letters from immigrants (all of whom are privileged to have English
as their native tongue) and from Americans associated with immigrants (such as
an immigration lawyer and a retired government employee), no immigrant chose to
go public. This betrays the voicelessness and powerlessness of the immigrant
population. Besieged by linguistic and cultural difficulties, and at times by a
broken dream of America, all we can do is to try to survive in this alien land.

Finally, to those who are going to write me to tell me to get the hell out of
here, don't bother. I'm determined to stay.

SHENG-MEI MA Harrisonburg, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              175 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 14, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

The Struggle to Adapt in Arlington;
Immigrant Sisters Make Some Strides on Road to Mastering English

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 985 words


Sometimes, 9-year-old Helen Sereke is so comfortable speaking English that her
teacher gently chides her for being too chatty in class.

There are times, however, when Helen, an immigrant from Africa who spoke no
English when she entered Arlington's Barcroft Elementary School last fall,
doesn't seem to feel a part of her third-grade class. One recent day, Helen
quietly worked on a math assignment while her social studies classmates gave
reports on state flags and famous people.

"Maybe she's bored, maybe she doesn't understand what's going on," said Kathy
Yamaguchi, Helen's teacher. "You can see where someone with Helen's level [of
English] would have a lot of trouble with some of the work."

Yamaguchi and other Barcroft teachers said the scene reflects the challenges
that await Helen and her 7-year-old sister, Selamawit, a year after their family
arrived in the United States from a Sudanese refugee camp.

Like thousands of other immigrant students in the Washington area who began the
school year not knowing how to speak English, the Sereke sisters have rapidly
absorbed U.S. language and culture and are able to carry on simple
conversations. Now, their teachers say, the Serekes need to continue learning
during summer, and avoid getting frustrated as their schoolwork becomes more
complex and the pace of their progress inevitably slows.

Since September, The Washington Post has monitored the acculturation of the
Serekes, who began the school year not knowing how to use pencils or crayons,
and fluent only in Tigrinya, the language of Eritrea, their war-scarred
homeland.

Though they still are far from being fluent in English, the Serekes can
communicate with their classmates, which has given them the confidence to raise
their hands and answer some questions in class.

They've also picked up a few phrases from their friends. In her intensive
English class recently, Helen urged a classmate to "slap five." Selamawit, a
first-grader, often punctuates conversations with her friends by saying, "Come
on, guys."

"It's been amazing to watch her go from zero English to being able to whisper to
a friend and giggle and make a joke," said Elizabeth Iacoponi, Selamawit's main
teacher.

The challenge of teaching non-English speakers is a familiar one to teachers in
Arlington, where one student in six does not speak English fluently. It is the
most ethnically diverse school system in the Washington area.

Language specialists estimate that it takes two to four years for non-English
speaking students to become proficient in the language. On their teachers'
recommendation, Helen and Selamawit will attend a four-week summer school
program sponsored by the county to try to retain the progress they've made in
the last nine months. The girls' parents do not speak English.

"Being where [they] can speak English on a regular basis and having the extra
guidance is important," said Mary White, Selamawit's English teacher.

Selamawit progressed so well this year that when she enters second grade in
September she will receive just a few hours of intensive language training each
week, a big reduction from this year, when she spent half of each school day in
a class for non-English speakers.

At greater risk of falling behind, Barcroft teachers say, is Helen, who will
enter fourth grade next year but is reading and writing at a first-grade level,
about the same as her younger sister.

Because she began school last fall having missed two years of instruction, Helen
has more ground to make up than Selamawit, teachers said. Next year, Helen will
continue to receive a half-day of special English instruction each school day.

Teachers say they hope summer school will help Helen continue to close the gap
between what she is capable of learning and what her language skills have
allowed her to learn. Not having language skills that match her level of
cognitive development is a "tough burden" for a child of Helen's age, said Ken
Sheppard, a researcher at the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington who
has studied how foreign children learn English in this country.

Helen has shown an aptitude for math, a subject she learned with
English-speaking classmates in a mainstream classroom throughout the school
year. But as the work became more complicated, she fell behind because there was
no one who could explain more complex concepts to her in her native language.
Word problems and procedures such as long division are still "above her head,"
Yamaguchi said.

Throughout the school year, Helen and Selamawit have made friends with new
students who have come into their classes knowing as little English as the
Serekes did when they first arrived.

When 7-year-old Patricia Alvarez arrived in Iacoponi's class from El Salvador a
few weeks ago, Selamawit was eager to make herself useful.

"She said, 'Can I sit next to her and help her?' " Iacoponi recalled. "Now she's
no longer the low person on the language totem pole."

Similarly, Helen volunteered to assist classmates who did not understand English
or classroom procedures, which helped her improve her English as well, said
Jeannette Kwok, Helen's English teacher.

"She's not realizing that she's speaking [English] when she's telling them to
'do this' or 'turn the page,' " Kwok said.

Like most people learning English, both girls have more problems writing it than
speaking it. In her journal, for instance, Selamawit recently wrote, "And
beautiful it is spring," which White took to mean, "Spring is beautiful."

"In speaking she doesn't make those errors," said White, who said Selamawit
should correct the problem as her knowledge of English expands.

Though they continue to face a difficult adjustment to the United States, the
girls are doing well considering they have been in the country for such a short
time, their teachers say.

"In the end," Kwok said, "they'll do just fine."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SELAMAWIT SEREKE, 7, WORKS A MATH PROBLEM IN HER FIRST-GRADE
CLASS IN ARLINGTON. JAMES A. PARCELL

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              176 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 16, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Returns Destitute Haitian Family That Sought Schools on Its Shores

Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 1078 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti


Sony Clairmont crouches in the meager shade of a parked bus to tell his story.
The youngest of his six children -- a feverish, angel-faced 2-year-old named
Jessica -- drapes her arm sleepily around his neck. She is a large part of the
reason he tried to leave Haiti.

Clairmont and his family did not get far. In a small wooden boat captained by
Clairmont and crammed with 27 other Haitians, they set off last month, spent
three days floundering in the Windward Passage and were picked up by the U.S.
Coast Guard. The Americans delivered the Clairmont family to the tent city at
the U.S. Navy Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where they spent nearly a month.

Their application for U.S. political asylum was denied, Clairmont said, on the
basis of a five-minute conversation with an immigration official at Guantanamo.

On June 10, a Coast Guard cutter pulled into the port here and dropped off the
Clairmonts -- Sony, 34, his wife Margaret, 36, sons Fanne, 9, and Sanio, 5, and
daughters Joanne, 6, and Jessica. Clairmont's two oldest children, 14-year-old
Sonnelle and 11-year-old Sonise, had been left with his brother at home in the
southern coastal town of St. Louis du Sud.

President Bush's decision last month to close the Guantanamo tent city set up
for Haitians and deliver those picked up at sea directly back to their country
has abruptly halted the outflow of boat people. The Coast Guard, which was
rescuing hundreds of Haitians a day just a month ago, has reported picking up
only a handful in the last few weeks. After interdicting and processing some
37,000 Haitians since a bloody military coup Sept. 30, the United States has
decided, in the words of one diplomat here, that "enough is enough."

Soon the remaining few thousand unsuccessful asylum-seekers still in Guantanamo
are to be returned. But for Haitians like the Clairmonts -- penniless families
with nothing to lose -- the dream of a better life in a richer, more stable
country will not die easily.

At the teeming dockside processing center where about 500 Haitians are being
delivered daily from Guantanamo, Clairmont searched for shelter from the searing
midday sun and lulled Jessica to sleep.

"I didn't see any way to send the kids to school," he said, brushing a fly away
from Jessica's cheek. "I was a fisherman, a spear fisher, and I wasn't catching
much. I couldn't find any other job. I didn't care what job I got. . . . All I
care about is being able to feed the kids and having enough money to send them
to school."

Clairmont owns little more than his clothes, the flip-flops on his feet and a
few spoons his family uses to eat. Still, his conversation is dominated not by
material concerns but by the theme of school for his children.

Clairmont attended school for two years, until he was 10. He can write his name
in a painstaking script but cannot read or write anything else. His wife also is
illiterate. She said of her grandmother who raised her, "You know, these old
peasants, they don't send their kids to school."

What drove them to risk their lives at sea was not any sense of immediate danger
or political persecution -- the criteria Haitian refugees must meet to qualify
for U.S. asylum. It was the certainty that if they did not leave, their children
would be condemned to the same life they have lived.

"I see that when kids go to school at least they have a guarantee, at least they
can get a job," he said. In a country where many poor people make their living
hauling loads of goods on two wheeled carts, he said, "If you go to school, at
least you won't be pulling a cart in the road like an animal."

School tuitions are only $ 15 or $ 20 a year, but even that is out of reach for
many, especially those with several children. The little cash that Clairmont
earned from fishing was used for food and shelter. "A lot of days, I could only
make 5 or 6 gourdes [50 or 60 cents]. On a good day I might make $ 7 or $ 8 but
then there might be nothing for 15 days after that," he said.

"I was born in this. My father was a fisherman and taught me and it's all I
know," he said. "Back in '78 or '79 it used to be good. But now there are too
many fishermen and not as many fish and lobster. You don't get anything
anymore."

After the army coup last year, hard times came to St. Louis du Sud on Haiti's
southwestern peninsula, where the Clairmonts lived. There was violence as the
army exerted its control and an international boycott on trade with Haiti
crippled the fragile economy.

When a relative of Clairmont's became ill, he sold his diving equipment -- and
thus his livelihood -- for medicine and a doctor. "We couldn't find work, we
couldn't find money, we couldn't send the kids to school," said Margaret. "The
only one of the children who had ever been to school was Joanne, the 6-year-old,
who went for only a year. We had to do something."

On May 14 they set out in a small wooden boat, called Thank You Grandmother,
owned by Clairmont's brother. Because he was captain, Clairmont and his family
paid no fare, nor were they paid. The Coast Guard picked them up and, in keeping
with policy, burned their boat.

In Guantanamo, the family sat down one day with an official from the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, who asked why they had left Haiti. "I
said it was to take care of the children," Clairmont recounted. The INS official
had what he needed.

Although Clairmont said he voted for Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the president
ousted in the army coup last fall, the fisherman has never taken an active
interest in politics. And U.S. law denies political asylum to those like the
Clairmonts who have fled their homeland simply to escape poverty.

When the Clairmonts returned to Haiti, they received 7.50 apiece in crumbling
local currency from the Haitian Red Cross. They planned to find a ride back to
St. Louis, where they could stay at the crowded house of Clairmont's sister.

But not for long, Clairmont said. "I don't want to stay because there's a lot of
'freak out,' " he said, using the English words. "The people can point their
finger at you, and then for no reason they can come and kill you."

He said it will be impossible to make any money in St. Louis, and already he has
laid plans for a new departure. "On the 28th of June I'm ready to take another
boat, this time to Jamaica," he said. "We'll get together a couple of guys and
get a boat and go. Things are too rough here. I just can't stay anymore."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, BACK IN HAITI FROM STAY AT U.S. BASE IN CUBA ARE, FROM LEFT,
MARGARET, FANNE, JOANNE, SONY, JESSICA AND SANIO CLAIRMONT. REUTER FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              177 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 18, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

A City Diverse By Design

Stephen Buckley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MARYLAND WEEKLY (MONTGOMERY); PAGE M1

LENGTH: 950 words


The students, yellow-skinned and brown-skinned, young and old and middle-aged,
sat forward, eyes alert, pens and pencils ready, notebooks open. Their teacher
held up a photo of a man in a dark suit.

"Where do you think he's going?" asked teacher Nancy Hutchison.

"To the office," one student said.

"Where else may he be going?"

"Maybe to get married," one older woman said shyly, covering her mouth and
chuckling.

Everyone laughed.

These students, members of an English as a Second Language class at Howard
Community College, represent the emerging new face of Columbia.

They are Vietnamese and Israeli and Salvadoran and Chinese. They were dentists
and doctors and teachers in their native lands. Now, they are among the
thousands of immigrants who have flocked to Columbia since 1980.

While many immigrants settled throughout Howard County, many were particularly
attracted to the city, seeking a better life in a place dubbed The Next America,
a place that 25 years ago embraced ethnic diversity as part of its original
vision.

U.S. Census data show that since 1980, the number of Asians and Hispanics living
in Columbia has more than doubled, from about 2,400 to about 5,500, in a total
population of 75,000. In 1970, Columbia counted 56 Asians among its 9,815
residents. (The 1970 census reports did not delineate Hispanics.)

When the Foreign-Born Information and Referral Network was establish in 1981 to
provide services for immigrants in Howard, it served 90 people. Last year, the
network aided 1,800 Howard County immigrants from 70 countries.

Three years ago, it helped Quan Luu, 20, find a job and a place to live after he
arrived in Columbia from a camp in the Philippines for Vietnamese refugees.

He came speaking splintered English and wondering how he would survive in his
new country. Now, he has a steady job as a cashier at a 7-Eleven, takes classes
at the community college and hopes to become an electrical engineer. This fall,
he will enroll at the University of Maryland at College Park.

The softspoken young man says, "I love Columbia. I have Vietnamese and American
friends. I have a good job. I am happy here."

The reasons for Columbia's burgeoning diversity vary. Some point to the city's
economic prosperity during the last 10 years. "Columbia has jobs," said Pat
Hatch, executive director of the referral network, predicting the organization
will assist at least 2,000 immigrants this year. "Wherever there are jobs, there
are immigrants."

Others believe the city simply has experienced a ripple effect from the rush of
immigrants to closer-in Washington suburbs. Still others say immigrants have
flocked to Columbia because of its reputation as a city where people from many
nations and cultures can feel comfortable. "In many ways, it's a manifestation
of what [developer] Jim Rouse wanted for Columbia," said Howard County Council
member C. Vernon Gray (D-District 3). "This is all part of his original vision
of Columbia as a place where people of all cultures and socioeconomic status
could feel at home."

"Columbia is a very supportive community," said Patty Keeton, coordinator of
basic skills and foreign-born programs at Howard Community College. "People find
this to be a very welcoming place."

Columbia's leaders note that more ethnic diversity challenges the community at
large. In recent months, the city has grappled with a disturbing development:
While immigrants seem to find Columbia appealing, a string of hate incidents,
some directed at foreign residents, indicates that some Columbians aren't as
welcoming as others.

"We have to get serious about ethnic diversity," said Jean Toomer, director of
Community Building in Howard County. That group focuses on improving race
relations and fostering intercultural sensitivity. "This is work. You have to be
in it for the long haul."

In the meantime, Keeton's program at Howard Community College has seen
extraordinary growth. In 1985, the school offered seven ESL classes. It now
makes available 15 classes for non-English speakers.

The majority of ESL students live in Columbia, Keeton said. Nancy Hutchison's
class, for example, is typical: nine students reside in Columbia, five in
Ellicott City and two in Laurel. All had moved to Howard within the last nine
years.

The dramatic increase in ethnic diversity has brought challenges, say those who
work with immigrants.

Hatch said, for instance, that more and more immigrants are arriving with
minimal literacy skills in their own language. In addition, she said, the influx
of immigrants has intensified the need for increased funding to help them
settle.

For example, Hatch said, she would like to hire a volunteer coordinator full
time, instead of part time. But that can't be done. No money.

"The funds are just not sufficient for what we have to do," said Hatch, who said
the network gets about half of its funding from the county.

Ethnic diversity also has affected the public schools, said Celeste Carr, who
supervises the system's English for Speakers of Other Languages program. There
were 346 students in the program during the 1990-91 school year. Seventy percent
of the ESOL students in elementary and middle schools alone live in Columbia.

And, Carr added, "we realize we have to have materials that present not just
black families and white families, but Asians and Hispanics as well, a lot of
varied populations."

Quan Luu, meanwhile, said he hasn't experienced any tensions in Columbia
connected to his being foreign born. "American people are -- how do you say it
-- very hospitable," he said. "I don't hear people say bad things about Asian
people, not to my face. They make me feel comfortable."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, COLUMBIA'S PEOPLE TREE, A SYMBOL OF MANY GROWING TOGETHER AS
ONE.; MAP, BRAD WYE; PHOTO, AIR SURVEY CORPORATION; PHOTO

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              178 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 20, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Visa Backlog at Embassy Keeps Thousands of Haitians From U.S.

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 489 words


More than 20,000 Haitians who could immigrate legally to the United States are
stuck on their troubled island because the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince has
not processed their visa applications, according to State Department officials.

Most of the Haitians are relatives of Haitian-American citizens and residents
who have petitioned to have family members join them in the United States. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service has approved the petitions and sent the
papers to Port-au-Prince, but no further work has been done, officials said,
because no consular officials are available.

The administration's priorities are to ensure that boat people forcibly returned
to Haiti are not harmed and to process refugee applicants there, John Adams,
deputy assistant secretary of state, told immigration lawyers meeting in New
Orleans last week.

But while consular officers undertook these new duties and Haiti's political and
economic situation continued to deteriorate, thousands of relatives of U.S.
citizens, with adequate housing and income assured here, could not leave the
island.

The visa backlog grew shortly after Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's first
elected president, was ousted in a military coup Sept. 30. The visa-processing
section was shut down because embassy officials did not want to attract crowds
during the unstable political situation.

Still pending are about 13,000 petition cases thought to involve more than
32,000 people, officials said. Most would qualify for admission, a department
official said.

When embassy staffing levels began returning to normal, with about seven
consular officers, visa applicants still were not processed. Consular and other
embassy officials interviewed thousands of returned boat people, said they have
not found any mistreated and established the new refugee-processing system.

The administration's decision May 24 to turn back anyone found trying to leave
Haiti by boat has virtually halted the exodus. Only one boat, carrying 10
people, has been found in the last two weeks.

In addition, only 1,978 people remain at the tent city on the U.S. naval base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, department offiicials said, and the INS has completed
screening their asylum requests.

Of those, 1,747 have received initial approval for asylum and are to be brought
here as the facility closes. The other 231 are scheduled to be returned to
Haiti, according to a department official, in addition to 518 en route to
Port-au-Prince yesterday.

That might free officials to begin visa processing, authorities said, but State
Department officials are still debating whether additional officers must be sent
to clear the backlog and handle the new processing program.

About 100 people a day have been applying at the embassy in Port-au-Prince for
refugee status under an administration program established as an alternative
after 40,000 people took to sea to escape the island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              179 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 26, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Byrd Places Accent On Speaking English

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 153 words


Give us your huddled masses yearning to breathe free -- so long as they speak
English.

This was the gist of remarks by Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) about provisions
of a pending Russian aid bill that would give special status to immigrants from
the former Soviet Union, Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, making financial help
available to them.

"I pick up the telephone and call the local garage," said Byrd in a digression
from his prepared text. "I can't understand the person on the other side of the
line. I'm not sure he can understand me. They're all over the place, and they
don't speak English. Do we want more of this?"

Byrd, who, as senior Democrat in the Senate, is its president pro tempore as
well as chairman of its Appropriations Committee, noted that millions of
Americans are out of work and asked, "What are we doing, opening up another door
here for more immigrants who can't speak English?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              180 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 8, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

New York's Flowering Inferno;
Immigrant Vendors Fighting An Entrepreneurial Battle

Laurie Goodstein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 1186 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Jesus and Nieves Tapia arrived in the Bronx four years ago from Mexico with no
money, no education and no English. But like turn-of-the-century pushcart
peddlers who survived by hawking oranges and rags to tenement dwellers, the
Tapias have found a way to make it in America.

Their wares are carnations, gladioluses, bouquets of roses and baby's breath,
all loaded onto shopping carts and sold at subway stops and street corners. The
work starts at 4 a.m., and occupational hazards include nights spent in jail for
selling without a license, but it's a living, hard and harmless compared with
trafficking in some of the other items sold for cash in these streets.

Who could seriously object? For two generations, however, the flower industry
here has been dominated by Greek Americans who opened shops when they first
immigrated and who expect their children to carry on the business. Now, in a
tight economy when flowers are a luxury, these florists are furious to find that
hundreds, perhaps thousands, of new Mexican immigrants are intercepting their
customers in every borough of the city.

"I sympathize with them," said Steve Parlavantzas, a florist in the Bronx. "But
why'd they choose our industry? Why don't they choose to sell jewelry instead on
Fifth Avenue? Why do they take the bread and butter out of our mouths and our
children's mouths?"

New York's flower feud reflects the tensions that occur when a new wave of
immigrants washes over an old one. Economic rivalries have involved commerce in
clothing and scrap, in fish and in fruits and vegetables. But there is something
about this ugly confrontation over a commodity as sweet and fragile as flowers
that seems particularly painful, and particularly sad.

The Greeks arrived when the gates were open, when uncles legally brought their
nephews with them on the boat over. They established their flower shops with all
the requisite paperwork and permits. But the Mexicans have come in an era of
closed borders, when uncles cannot legally bring even their own children. No
papers or permits are available, even for selling on street corners. But the
Mexicans, like the Greeks, have proven themselves extraordinary entrepreneurs in
the best American tradition.

Every day of the week but Monday, the Tapias rise at 4 a.m., tiptoeing past
their children sleeping two to a mattress in the damp Bronx basement that is
home.

At that hour, New York belongs to streetwalkers and garbage haulers. Jesus, in a
Chicago Bulls cap, drives his battered brown Cadillac with the "I Love New York"
sticker on the dashboard to the wholesale flower district along West 28th Street
in Manhattan.

In the shops, the accented English of Koreans, Mexicans, Greeks, Italians and
Brooklynites mingles in the scented air. Nievesbuys bundled sprigs of green
leaves at one store, roses at another. The wholesaler, who calls her "Mrs.
Jesus," wraps everything in brown paper. The bill totals $ 122.

Several Mexican vendors, next to heavy boxes of gladioluses, await taxis. Others
transport their goods by subway to selling spots in the boroughs. With a car,
the Tapias are well capitalized. But they started out by working for other
Mexican vendors who regularly took a 60 percent cut of sales. Now, the Tapias
work for themselves.

Driving back to the Bronx, Nieves said in Spanish, "Some people don't believe
the kind of sacrifice we put into this work. They say, 'Why don't you look for
work?' But this is our work." For many Mexicans without immigration papers, it
is the only work available.

Basements and boiler rooms serve as home and flower-fixing factory for most
Mexican vendors. The Tapias and Jesus's sister Maria pay $ 702 a month for their
five-room basement, where plaster falls from the walls and rats run. But Nieves
said she prefers the basement because the landlord does not mind the mess from
the flowers.

When their four children awaken, the mattresses are piled up, creating a flat
surface where Jesus rapidly rolls chrysanthemums and gladioluses into long
bundles that sell for $ 5 each. While Nieves walks the children to school,
several friends and relatives arrive and set up an assembly line on the couch,
shucking thorns off roses and tucking flowers into mirrored cellophane sheaths.

By about 11, buckets are filled with bouquets, and vendors are deployed in a
half-mile-square area near a subway line in the Bronx, their shopping carts
heavy with blooms and a hefty piece of pipe used for protection. On Father's Day
last year, a Manhattan peddler named Xisto Martinez was killed when he tried to
prevent three thieves from stealing his flowers.

The Bronx's large immigrant population provides empathetic customers for the
peddlers. "If they don't sell, they don't eat," said Luz Olivaras, a Puerto
Rican who buys flowers from Maria Tapia. "I like to buy from Spanish people.
They need the money more than the florist."

In his flower store nearby, Parlavantzas fumed at that idea. Seven small
florists in the Bronx, he said, have been driven out of business in the last 18
months by the peddlers, who undercut prices because they pay no taxes or rent.
"I understand they are poor. I understand they have human rights. The question
is, do the Americans have any human rights?"

Twenty-five years ago, Parlavantzas said, he came here as a young man from
Greece. He swept floors at a florist shop until he scraped together money to buy
his own.

Now, he has marshaled 483 of the five boroughs' 1,052 florists into the New York
Retail Florists Association. He estimated that 2,000 illegal flower vendors make
about $ 200 a day each, siphoning as much as $ 134 million annually from the
florists.

But Tapia finds those figures preposterous. "If I were earning that much, it
would take me half a year and I'd be going back to Mexico," he said. He and
other vendors interviewed said they clear about $ 100 to $ 150 a week, making
more only on occasions such as Valentine's Day.

Florists have few weapons against the vendors. "We call the police," said
Lambros Koutsogiannis, who works in his father's store. "But every time they
chase one away, another one appears."

Police regularly confiscate flowers of those without vending licenses, issuing
citations for fines ranging from $ 250 to $ 1,000. The Tapias were nearly
evicted from their basement apartment recently when police confiscated their
flowers and they couldn't pay the rent.

Vendors without identification have spent nights in jail. Some vendors said they
have tried to apply for licenses only to find that the city limits the number to
863. The waiting list is frozen at 1,200 names.

The licensing battle may make its way to the City Council, but some florists
with a philosophical perspective of the marketplace in American life said they
have mixed emotions about the fight.

"Forty or 50 years ago, the Greeks were the new immigrants on the block, and I'm
sure we were undercutting somebody else," said Mike Ameralis, owner of a large
Manhattan flower store. "That's how competition works in this country. You're
either going to be on your toes, or you're out."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, IN HIS BASEMENT APARTMENT, JESUS TAPIA READIES HIS
STREET-VENDING WARES. HELAYNE SEIDMAN FOR TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              181 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 9, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

4 Charged In Bribery Case at INS;
Suspects Allegedly Sold Work Permits

Carlos Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 708 words


Three current employees and one former employee of the Arlington district office
of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service were arrested yesterday and
charged with accepting bribes and conspiring to defraud the government by
selling work permits to illegal immigrants.

The four, including the secretary to the chief of the political asylum unit,
were charged in a 45-count indictment unsealed yesterday with selling the work
permits for as much as $ 100 each, according to court papers filed in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria.

One of the employees was charged with receiving $ 32,000 in bribes.

All four were released yesterday on $ 10,000 personal recognizance bonds, an
official with the U.S. magistrate's court said. They are scheduled to be
arraigned in U.S. District Court at 9 a.m. Monday.

They all had worked at the same time as applications clerks in the examination
branch of the INS, according to court papers. It is in this section that
immigrants make applications and undergo interviews for immigration documents
that show they are in this country legally and can get work permits.

The Arlington district office serves immigrants in Washington and Virginia and
processes more than 50,000 work permits annually, making it one of the 10
busiest of the country's 35 district offices, INS officials said.

"The desires and pressures to immigrate into the United States have never been
greater," INS spokesman Duke Austin said. "Employees are frequently offered
bribes, but it is not widespread within the service," he said of the 18,000
people working for the INS.

According to testimony this year before the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, an
estimated 200,000 Salvadorans are living in the Washington area, but only 55,000
are here legally.

Austin said that changes made in 1987 to the immigration law, which impose
sanctions against employers who hire immigrants without proper documentation,
seem to be placing even more pressure on illegal immigrants to get work permits
any way they can.

The four indicted were: Shebra Johnson, 22, of Washington, who was charged with
23 counts of accepting bribes totaling $ 32,000; Saundra Thomas, 26, of
Arlington, charged with 14 counts of accepting more than $ 5,000 in bribes;
Sonia Wilkerson, 22, of Landover, charged with two counts of accepting an
unknown amount in bribes; and Agnes Monroe, 35, who left the INS in January and
is charged with 11 counts of accepting more than $ 15,000, according to court
papers.

The four women are charged with conspiring with Norberto and Ivette Escobar,
owners of Best Services, a visa consultant firm based in Arlington.

Norberto Escobar, 38, of Springfield, was arrested last month and charged with
illegally arranging for five immigrants living in New Jersey to get work permits
and Social Security cards for a total price of $ 8,500.

Ivette Escobar has not been charged in the case.

Typically, visa consultants advertise to help immigrants work through the INS
bureaucracy to apply for political asylum and obtain such things as work
authorization and other immigration documents.

But local lawyers long have complained that visa consultants are illegally
practicing law without licenses and frequently are inducing their clients --
many of whom entered the country illegally -- to commit fraud to obtain
documents.

Officials said the Escobar case alerted agents with the Justice Department's
Inspector General's Office that federal employees might be receiving bribes.

Escobar, who is free on $ 100,000 bond, is named in this week's indictment as a
conspirator in the bribery cases involving the four women.

From April 1991 until December 1991, Thomas and Johnson allegedly conspired to
sell work authorization permits for $ 75 to $ 100 apiece, the 22-page indictment
said.

According to the indictment, "aliens not eligible for immigration benefits under
the political asylum program administered by the INS" would be recruited and
promised immigration benefits for a fee.

Thomas and Johnson would get the names of the recruited aliens, the indictment
said, and would issue the work permit documents, often while in the company of
one of the Escobars.

Staff writer Robert F. Howe contributed to this report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              182 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 10, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Immigrant Youths Dig For Roots;
Culture Classes in Vogue

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 879 words


Victoria Vo has never seen the country her parents left behind. For her, Vietnam
and its ways were mostly something to imagine while she learned to get by in
other countries.

First it was Brazil, where she was born 13 years ago and grew up speaking
Portuguese. Then it was the United States, where she learned English after her
family moved to Fairfax County in 1989.

This summer, Victoria is trying to reclaim a part of her own culture, learning
to speak Vietnamese in a six-week class that is one of dozens being sponsored by
immigrant groups in the Washington area. The courses are designed to teach
immigrant children, many of whom have been taught more about U.S. history and
culture than about their own, the heritage of their families' native countries.

"My parents say that I should be able to speak and read and write in
Vietnamese," said Victoria, a seventh-grader at Luther Jackson Intermediate
School who hopes to visit Vietnam some day. As an adult, she said, "I would be
really embarrassed if I wouldn't know how to read a [Vietnamese] newspaper."

Though some similar programs are held during the school year, many immigrant
groups are using the summer break to offer children more intensive instruction
in what it means to be Vietnamese, Chinese, Bolivian, Mexican or Ethiopian.
Victoria spends three evenings a week with a dozen other students in her class,
which is held at Swanson Middle School in Arlington and is sponsored by the
Vietnamese Youth Educational Association.

Since the number of immigrants and refugees coming to the Washington area began
to soar 15 years ago, educators and other analysts have noticed that
American-reared children of immigrants sometimes do not identify with or
understand the cultures of their families' native countries.

Analysts say immigrant children who do not have an appreciation of their
parents' culture can have more difficulty adjusting to life here than those who
do.

An immigrant child "needs to have a sense of his own culture to deal with all
the complex issues" of life in this country, said Elena Pell, an education
specialist with Aspira Association, a Hispanic advocacy group. "They need to
define who they are and to draw on their family and their culture as a support
system."

In some cases, analysts say, immigrant parents are so eager for their children
to do well in the United States that they de-emphasize their culture and stop
speaking to their children in their native language.

"They're afraid that the children will grow up not well-adapted to American
culture," said Peter Huynh, 20, a volunteer teacher in the program at Swanson.
"What happens is, they start incorporating American culture in the household.
That's when the problems come in."

Kim Oanh Cook, a social worker in Fairfax County's Vietnamese community, said
children she has worked with "know the culture as other people think of it. They
might think of kung fu as Asian, for example, without thinking about a real,
living culture."

A summer day camp at Reston's Terraset Elementary School sponsored by the
Chinese Experimental School teaches about 35 children such skills as Chinese
painting and paper cutting, martial arts and Chinese language.

"Most of our campers are ABC -- American-born Chinese," said Bang-Jen Chao,
principal of the school, run by a nonprofit group that also sponsors children's
classes in Chinese culture during the school year.

Often, Chao said, children at the camp are torn between Chinese culture, which
emphasizes obeisance to elders and authority figures, and American culture, in
which there is a greater emphasis on individuality and independent thinking. A
major part of the camp's curriculum, Chao said, deals with traditional Chinese
mores and ethics.

"They sometimes are confused between the Chinese and the American way, so we
teach them about this," she said.

This summer, for the first time, the Mexican Embassy will sponsor a children's
course on the country's history, geography and current events, said Lucilla
Ruvalcava, of the embassy's consular section. And for the last month, Debre
Selam St. Mary's Church in Adams-Morgan, attended by hundreds of Ethiopians in
the area, has been holding Saturday afternoon children's classes in Amharic, the
official language of Ethiopia.

"It's basically teaching them to read and write," said Altaye Berhale, 35, whose
5-year-old son is in the program.

Berhale said many of the younger children can speak and understand Amharic,
which is spoken in most Ethiopian homes. But after attending school here, they
refuse to speak the language, even at home with their parents. "When you speak
to them in Amharic, they answer in English," Berhale said.

In the Hispanic community, much of the ethnic education focuses on traditional
dances and music of various Latin American countries. This summer, dance and
music groups are performing for children in religious and cultural festivals
throughout the area.

Dora Castellon, president of Comite Pro Bolivia, a Bolivian cultural group, said
the organization has helped teach immigrant youths traditional Bolivian dances
and is increasingly reaching out to youths who are unfamiliar with many other
Bolivian traditions.

"We need for them to keep the culture," she said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SHARON CHU AND JAMES Y. SHOU, BOTH 6, LAUGH AT CHU'S
CHALK-COVERED HANDS DURING BREAK IN THEIR CHINESE CLASS. HEATHER STONE

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              183 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 10, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

THE RELIABLE SOURCE

Lois Romano

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE B2; THE RELIABLE SOURCE

LENGTH: 957 words


Marlene Cries Foul

"Lies, lies, lies," snapped Marlene Chalmers Cooke of the old charges that have
prompted the Immigration and Naturalization Service to speed up efforts to
deport her.

"I'm tired of all these lies," the fourth wife of Redskins owner Jack Kent Cooke
said as she huffed back to her limo yesterday after her husband and Virginia
Gov. L. Douglas Wilder announced their plans for a football stadium in
Alexandria.

Just before speaking, Cooke blew a kiss to his Bolivian-born bride, who was
wearing her signature large hat, dark glasses and a sexy strapless dress. The
INS yesterday sought to dismiss Cooke's appeal of a judge's deportation order
based on her past involvement in a drug-smuggling ring.

INS officials argue that Marlene Cooke, who has a residency permit, or "green
card," left the country while appealing the judge's order, in effect
"self-deporting" herself and giving up her appeal. If an immigration appeals
board agrees, the INS could then issue an order for her to "show cause" why she
should not be deported.



WE'VE HEARD THAT

*Hillary Clinton may not have legally taken her husband's name -- as was widely
reported after his devastating 1980 gubernatorial loss. The American Spectator
reports in its August issue that her 1991 tax return was filed under the name
Hillary Rodham.


*Three late-summer movies may be real dogs. To wit: Film critics have been
barred from previewing the Jack Nicholson-Ellen Barkin feature "Man Trouble,"
"Cool World" with Kim Basinger, and Damon Wayans's vehicle "Mo' Money." The
studios would rather you find out after you've bought your ticket.


*A replica of the most scandalous bridge in the country is under construction in
Boca Grande, Fla. For its August filming of "Death at Chappaquiddick," Quest
Productions is re-creating the fateful bridge, which Edward Albert Jr., starring
as Ted Kennedy, will drive across -- and off.

* Ernestine Bradley, wife of Sen. Bill Bradley, last week underwent a mastectomy
for breast cancer. The senator's office said in a statement that she will be
receiving further treatment but is expected to make a full recovery.


* Michael Sununu, the 24-year-old son of the former White House chief of staff,
has been quietly working on "research" at the Republican Congressional
Committee. No one would would confirm if the research in question is of the
opposition kind.


* We may have offended some readers with our choice of a headline over
yesterday's item about King Mswati of Swaziland. The headline is a standing
Source logo, and we regret any misunderstanding. There were also questions about
the photo: It was the king.


*The producers of Broadway's "Crazy for You" turned down a request to provide
the cast for a Clinton fund-raiser because the play's biggest backer, Roger
Horchow, is also backing Ross Perot.



A Congressman's Questionable Appeal


True, money is tight these days. And redistricting has indeed forced first-term
Rep. Dick Nichols (R) to relocate into Dan Glickman's (D) Kansas territory so as
not to challenge a fellow GOPer. But that hasn't stopped eyes from rolling about
what one consultant calls "the most tasteless fund-raising letter I have ever
seen."

What have offended some are Nichols's repeated references to his wife's cancer.
Writing of the Balanced Budget Amendment, which came to the floor the day before
her surgery, Nichols explains, "Connie would not let me stay here with her, but
said I must go back to Washington to vote on behalf of all my constituents."

And: "I wanted her beside me before I made my final decision to run. ... But,
the day after surgery, she said, 'Dick, you are the type of congressman people
want. They need you!'

Spokesman Jaime Fall calls the idea Nichols would exploit his wife's illness
"ridiculous."

"Dick and Connie are a team. Everywhere he goes, the number one question is
'How's Connie?' The letter is written in that spirit." Indeed, the appeal
includes a handwritten thanks from Connie.



Marla Maples: Broadway-Billed and Altar Bound?


You heard it here first: The Donald and Marla may (finally) be wed this winter.
Although Marla Maples was sweetly and Southernly coy with us the other day, she
did reveal that the couple would be married during the first break from her
Broadway debut in "The Will Rogers Follies" Aug. 3.

That break is probably this winter, and, she adds, "I've always wanted a winter
wedding."

While Marla has precious little to say about Donald and Ivana's running gun
battle, she was happy to tell us about her upcoming stage debut, in the role of
Ziegfeld's Favorite.

"There's so much that the role entails. It's hard work, and I've learned to
really appreciate the talent of the dancers," she says. "I danced when I was
younger, but I liked basketball and softball better. Now I know how hard it is."

And how did she snag the role? "I met Pierre [Cossette, the play's producer] at
Kathie Lee Gifford's, and he told me I'd make a great Ziegfeld's Favorite. I
didn't give it much thought, and I was busy with Donald's and my life. I didn't
really think he was serious, but he called again last winter, and then I knew he
was."

Her career expectations: "I just want to be respected as an actress and
entertainer. The hardest thing was to be put down in the few roles I had after I
met Donald. People didn't realize that I was serious and that I had moved to New
York for the opportunities."

She emphasizes that her career was gaining momentum before Trump dominated her
life. "I was reading for Herbert Ross and had four call-backs. I was on my way."

And although meeting her white knight may have sidetracked her ambitions, it now
looks as if the princess may live happily ever after.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HILLARY WHO? FRED C. LARKIN; PHOTO, BILL O'LEARY; PHOTO

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              184 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 12, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Ghosts at the Gateway

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 402 words


The struggle over the final shape of the splendid new Museum of Immigration at
Ellis Island reached yet another turning point over the Fourth of July weekend.
The Park Service, which controls the land, rejected yet another in a series of
plans to convert the unused half of the island complex into a hotel and
conference center -- at the price of demolishing 12 of the 40 buildings still
standing. It's the right decision: Ellis Island is too much of a national
emotional touchstone to be razed even partially. Yet it shows again the
thorniness of the preservation dilemma.

Preservation groups, developers and the Park Service have been wrangling for
years over the best use of the island, which includes not just the Great Hall
housing the museum but also an adjoining island with 40 scattered, still-ruined
buildings that tourists never see. The reason they don't is straightforward:
these buildings, including a hospital, laundry and contagious diseases ward, are
unsafe, rusting, rotting and overgrown with weeds. But for the same reason, say
those who have been on private tours, they are evocative, full of the
immigrants' "ghosts." Developers and preservationists agree that no plan can
preserve those ghosts. On the other hand, if untouched the structures may simply
fall apart. How to strike some balance?

Congress in 1988 passed a law allowing for historic sites to be leased to
private developers, which could find new uses for minor parts of significant
sites in return for external preservation and public access. Some 20 sites have
used the law since then -- battlefields, lighthouses and the like -- but Ellis
Island, the intended beneficiary, remains stuck. A long string of proposals have
foundered because they seemed too commerical or glitzy, inappropriate for a
place so central to American memory. The most recent plan originally called for
no demolition of buildings, but failed to get financial backing without the
simplified plan that the razings allowed.

And if the place is cleaned up but not demolished? "Preservation is very sad,"
admits Michael Adlerstein, the parks official in charge of the project. "You
lose something, or you lose everything." The developer, Central Development
Corp., will have another chance to submit a plan by fall. The challenge of
assuaging the fears of both financiers and preservationists, and the demands of
both present and past, is stubborn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              185 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 20, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Clearing Airport Immigration Handily;
INS Will Test Scanning System Designed to Reduce Passenger Delays

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 650 words


International travelers: Worried about immigration hassles at the airport
because, with that new beard or dyed hair, you no longer look like your passport
picture?

There's help on the way. The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it will
look at your hand -- not your picture -- under an experimental program designed
to cut down on long lines at international airports, where clearance can take 45
minutes or more.

Under the program, scheduled to be tested this fall, arriving passengers will
slide an identification card through an automatic reader, put one hand into a
boxy scanning device and walk through immigration facilities.

The process can be completed in about six seconds, but INS Associate
Commissioner James A. Puleo said the agency would be happy if each passenger
passed through in about 30 seconds. That would be about half the time it now
takes to process an American and one-fourth the time it can take for some
foreigners.

The $ 700,000 experimental program, which will be tested initially at John F.
Kennedy International Airport in New York and at Newark's international airport,
probably will enroll about 50,000 frequent international business travelers from
the United States, Europe, Japan and Canada, INS officials estimate. Businessmen
and women who traveled to the United States three times in the past year are
eligible to apply.

Travelers will record their basic physical characteristics, such as finger size,
distance between joints and hand width; this information, in turn, will be
recorded on magnetic identification cards that travelers will use to activate
the scanners.

The system is not as detailed as fingerprinting, and therefore is less
expensive. Travelers can enroll at no cost and will be subjected to a clearance
check, INS officials said.

Other countries, such as the Netherlands, are experimenting with a similar
system that uses fingerprints, rather than hand scans, but INS and the airline
industry officials thought that such a system, with connotations of criminal
investigation, would not be well received by the public.

The system is cheaper and faster than others, Puleo said, and has been used by
intelligence and drug enforcement agencies for security screening for small
groups of people.

The airline industry favors automated INS airport inspections. "We support this
strongly because it satisfies government's needs for identification of
travelers, but it would vastly speed up the amount of time each traveler would
have to spend" going through immigration procedures, said Rick Norton, senior
director for the Air Transport Association.

The airline industry's support for the program stems from the fact that an
estimated 40 million people enter the United States for business or pleasure
each year. Norton said industry analysts expect that number to double by the
year 2000, swamping current facilities. Facilities will have to be expanded
greatly or many more immigration officers will have to be hired, Norton said.

The alternative is to "come up with a better means of inspecting people."
Otherwise, he said, increased congestion will lead to longer waiting times --
and potentially fewer travelers.

Norton said the industry considered identification systems using fingerprinting
or eye or voice scans more intrusive and unreliable. "Putting a hand on the
device is the most benign of what could be regarded as a balance between a
personal inspection and a biometric process that may seem remote and
unfriendly," he said.

If it turns out that hand scanning does not work for processing large numbers of
people, Puleo said, the agency will try other ways to automate the process.
"We're committed to streamlining procedures," he said.

Passports and visas will not, however, become a thing of the past. If the system
breaks down, INS officials will rely on them for passenger entry, as they do
now.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, THE $700,000 PROGRAM, WHICH USES IDENTIFICATION CARD READERS AND
A BOXY SCANNER, IS SCHEDULED FOR OPERATION THIS FALL IN NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY.
FRANK JOHNSTON

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              186 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 23, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Police Work Often Hindered By Language;
Influx of Immigrants Forcing Many Officers to Use Translators

Vivien Lou Chen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V1

LENGTH: 640 words


If she could only speak English, 70-year-old U Thi Nguyen would have told the
police of her terror at being robbed in May in the Mason District house where
she lives alone.

Instead, a Fairfax County police officer depended on a friend of Nguyen's to
translate Vietnamese. He filled out a report and left without offering her any
words of comfort, Nguyen said.

"I wish to say more about my frustration about my being scared," Nguyen said
through a translator. "The police came and asked, 'What did I lose?' and that's
all."

A recent surge in the number of immigrants settling in the county is posing a
formidable challenge to police officers, who must respond to calls for help in
almost any language.

That challenge can add to the difficulty of finding out what has happened at a
crime scene, where time is of the essence. Often, police say, they cannot talk
directly with the victim and are forced to depend on anyone on hand who speaks
English and the victim's language.

"I am very angry I cannot speak to the police and tell them my story," Nguyen
said. "If I don't have a friend available, how can I tell police?"

Fairfax County police officials say they are grappling with how to overcome the
language barrier between authorities and immigrants, who make up 18.8 percent of
the households in the county, according to the 1990 Census.

Like hundreds of other law enforcement agencies nationwide, police here use the
AT&T Language Line, a telephone service with interpreters of 140 languages
available to speak on three-way conference calls. Last year, the police
department spent $ 21,000 to $ 23,000 on five to 10 calls a day, primarily in
Spanish, Korean and Vietnamese.

Fairfax County has only 20 to 25 bilingual officers on a force of 936, and most
of those speak Spanish.

Because it takes valuable time for a bilingual officer to arrive, police are
more likely to rely on someone at a crime scene to act as translator, said Capt.
John Rzewnicki, commander of the department's major crimes division.

In doing so, police risk speaking to the person who committed the crime or may
have to depend on the victim's children as interpreters, he said.

Nguyen had been sitting on her front porch when three men pulled up in a truck
and offered to cut her grass for free. When she went inside to get them a cup of
water, they followed her, pushed her into the bedroom and fled with $ 200 in
cash and two diamond rings.

In February of last year, someone broke into her basement and stole two
television sets and a tool case. Again, she said, police officers never said a
word to her but instead depended on a neighbor.

Nguyen and her lawyer, My Linh Duong Soland, fault the police for being too
quick to gather information without talking to the victim.

Soland, whose clients are mostly Vietnamese, said she receives one or two phone
calls a month from the wives of abusive husbands who never had a chance to tell
police their side of the story.

"Speaking as a foreigner, I am frustrated there is no adequate assistance to
victims who want to call for police protection," she said. "It's very damaging
to people's story."

Capt. Robert Carlisle, who oversees the department's personnel division, said
some efforts are already underway to help officers deal with immigrants.

Those efforts include recruiting bilingual speakers into the department by
testing them individually, so they don't have to wait for periodic group
testing; speeding up the hiring process; and promoting them once they become
officers.

The department also requires every sworn officer to attend cultural awareness
training, which consists of four one-hour classes on the black, Vietnamese and
Hispanic communities.

But the problem is "there are pockets of communities growing faster than we're
able to select, recruit and train," Carlisle said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              187 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 3, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Health-Care Workers Ease Tough Transition;
Arlington Reaches Out to Immigrants Struggling in a Confusing New Land

Charles W. Hall, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 1068 words


Ana Salmeron's daughter was healthy when Mary Daymont first met her, but it
seemed unlikely the 3-day-old child would grow up that way.

Salmeron and her daughter, Gladis, lived in a dingy Arlington boardinghouse,
where nearly 30 Latin American immigrants were jammed into seven rooms and the
music and drinking never stopped.

Salmeron, who had come here from rural El Salvador hoping to find a better life,
was broke and bewildered by life in the United States: She was unable to read a
thermometer, couldn't use the bus system to get her child to medical
appointments and didn't know what to do when the baby cried.

"She was a very sad, lonely person," recalled Daymont, a county nurse who met
Salmeron during a visit to the boardinghouse as part of a health outreach
program. "She used to cry all the time and ask me, 'Mary, can't you have them
deport me home?' "

But now, nearly four years later, things are looking up for Salmeron. With
Daymont's help, Salmeron began receiving welfare benefits that enabled her to
get a better home. Daymont also showed Salmeron how to use the transit system
and helped her give Gladis -- as well as brother Pedro, born a year later -- the
right medicine when the children had anemia.

Daymont's efforts reflect the role that some health-care workers in Arlington
and other local jurisdictions are playing in the lives of immigrant families who
desperately need help -- medical and otherwise -- but don't understand how to
get it.

By being part doctor, part social worker and part cultural adviser, the workers
have become vital links to many immigrants' health and understanding of the
United States.

Daymont has helped identify and head off health and development problems in
Salmeron's children that officials say are common among children of low-income
immigrants in the Washington area. Those conditions, as well as high rates of
tuberculosis, result from widespread poverty and cultural isolation among
immigrants, health officials said.

Arlington officials say the county's nurse outreach program, in which Daymont
and nine other nurses visit about 800 low-income immigrant families across the
county, is crucial in addressing health problems among immigrants, some of whom
do not seek assistance for fear of being deported.

"It's not a question of whether [immigrants] ought to be here or not. They are
here, and their children are the future of this community," said Susan Allan,
Arlington's public health director.

Local health officials said they are increasing their bilingual staffs and
instituting educational programs to respond to growing immigrant populations and
offer services regardless of immigration status.

Other jurisdictions rely less on home nursing and more on drop-in clinics.
Montgomery County and the District use home nurses in very limited cases,
officials said, and Alexandria and Fairfax County have programs that are smaller
than Arlington's. Fairfax, for instance, visits eligible families until a child
turns 1; Arlington's nurses visit a child until 5 years of age.

In Arlington -- where Hispanics make up 13.5 percent of the population, compared
with the regional average of 5.5 percent -- the nursing program is one piece of
a health-care effort aimed primarily at Hispanics and other immigrants. The
department continually advertises its free maternity and child-health services
to local churches and Hispanic groups.

Once mothers come to the clinic for checkups, they receive lectures on
nutrition, child rearing and other health issues. Clients also are screened for
referral to other programs, making the health department an entryway into the
county's social service system for many immigrant mothers and their children.

"This is the core philosophy of public health," said Ron Carlee, Arlington's
human services director. "If we don't deal with them as infants now, it's likely
we won't discover learning disabilities and emotional disorders until they reach
kindergarten or first grade."

Allan said the nursing program, which costs Arlington more than $ 500,000
annually, has survived in annual budget talks because officials believe it's
more effective in reaching immigrants than clinics alone.

"In an office setting, you see the person, but you don't see the environment
they live in," Allan said.

Daymont said the effect of nursing visits is particularly significant in cases
such as Salmeron's, which reflect the difficult settings in which thousands of
immigrant children are being raised in this area.

"You see a lot of apartments with several families where there may be a sheet
dividing the living room," Daymont said.

Many families have been split by the turmoil of immigration. Elders often remain
in the family's native country, forcing young mothers who come here to raise
their children with little guidance.

"A lot of the mothers [are] feeling really depressed and scared," said Rebecca
King, a nutritionist who has worked as a nurse in Bolivia. "That affects their
ability to interact with their kids."

In the apartments along Columbia Pike and other areas where immigrants from
Latin America have settled, health workers have noticed numerous cases of
childhood anemia -- often caused when mothers feed their children too much with
a bottle and don't give them enough solid food -- and developmental problems in
speech, motor skills and emotional maturity.

Salmeron was 17 when she came to this country, and she broke up with Gladis's
father after she became pregnant.

The boardinghouse Salmeron first lived in had four residents -- many of them
young children -- in each of seven rooms, Daymont said.

Daymont has helped Salmeron get Medicaid and welfare benefits for the children,
enabling Salmeron to move to an apartment shared by only two other people.

Daymont also has helped Salmeron learn bus routes, and Salmeron no longer misses
scheduled checkups for her children at an Arlington clinic, Daymont said.

Gladis is almost 4 now and will be enrolled next fall in Head Start, partly to
help her with delayed speech development. Pedro, nearly 3, is speaking and
developing at a normal rate, Daymont said. Salmeron plans to get a job when both
her children are in school, and she no longer talks of returning to El Salvador.

"It's very poor, and I never got to go to school," she said. "I want my children
to learn, not to live a life of poverty."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ANA SALMERON, FROM EL SALVADOR, WITH HER DAUGHTER GLADIS, 3,
CENTER, AND SON PEDRO, 2, IN THEIR ARLINGTON APARTMENT. KEITH JENKINS

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              188 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 7, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Immigrants Find American Dream as Elusive as Sleep

Ricardo Castillo, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 921 words


It is pitch dark by the time Alfredo Arevalo enters the park looking for a place
to sleep. But there is no hesitation in his stride.

"Once you come here for a month, you know your way to get to certain clear
spots," said Arevalo, a Salvadoran immigrant. "It's like you can almost see in
the dark."

Arevalo and about 20 other homeless Hispanic men say they are regularly sleeping
at night in this densely wooded park east of University Boulevard in east Silver
Spring that they call la montan

a, the Spanish word for mountain.

When 27-year-old Arevalo closes his eyes, he says his first thought is about the
family he left behind in El Salvador.

"I need to make money and send it to my family because they are counting on it.
The last time I talked to them was four months ago, and they think I'm doing
great here," he said.

"They don't know I'm homeless. When they tell me they are sick or they are in
great need of money, I feel desperate," he said.

After a long pause, he added, "I have even thought of committing theft."

Arevalo, who is from the little Salvadoran town of Santa Clara, said he wants to
work. He came to the United States seven months ago, dreaming of striking it
rich.

Back home, his salary as an occasional welder and sorter of coffee beans at a
plantation was not enough to provide a decent living for his wife and son.

But so far, the American Dream has eluded him. Besides confronting a new
culture, the men in this park are often consumed by their solitude, which they
fight with alcohol.

"We drink to forget and because we are alone," said Jose', 22, a Mexican native
who did not give his last name. "I already forgot when I became homeless. We
drink to our misfortune."

Manuel Baerga, a pastor who works with immigrants, said many of the men's
problems are due to a lack of family support.

"Most of these men fall into despair when they see that the castles and villas
they were promised don't exist and feel the system has rejected them. And they
have nobody here to lean on," Baerga said. "They are lonely men, and drinking is
one of their common ways out of reality." The explanation for their plight is
simple: Jobs are scarce. Unable to pay their rent after being unemployed for a
few weeks, they end up evicted from their apartments.

"Construction work is bad, and there are just too many arms for the few day jobs
that come up here," said Gustavo Torres at the day labor center of CASA, a
volunteer group that helps Hispanic immigrants find work.

The result, said Torres, is that workers may get two or three days' work a
month. At a typical wage of $ 5 an hour, they might make as much as $ 50 one
day, but then not work for days.

"You can't survive with that money," Torres said.

Estimates by social agencies and relief organizations differ on the number of
homeless Hispanic men living in area parks, but all agree that the number is
growing rapidly.

"There has been a substantial increase in Hispanic persons going to shelters in
the past two years," said Steve Stately, head of the homeless program in
Montgomery County's Department of Family Resources.

"We are seeing more and more of them, mostly men, at soup kitchens and hanging
out late at night in certain places," Stately said.

The Maryland Park Police say they are not aware of any significant number of
people living in parks at night.

According to Sgt. Timothy Boyle, a community affairs officer, "We often find
empty alcohol bottles and trash, sometimes two or three individuals, but nothing
indicative that somebody is living in these parks permanently."

Arevalo and others at the Silver Spring park said they evade park police
patrols, then bring cardboard boxes scrounged from nearby stores and spread them
on the ground underneath the trees.

"I am used to the cold and the bug bites," Arevalo said, showing scars on both
arms. "I spent three years in the [Salvadoran] army and we had to sleep all the
time in the mountains."

Arevalo, like many Salvadorans, has a work permit. But several of the other men
are illegal immigrants and ineligible for many federal welfare programs. Many
are wary of seeking government assistance for fear of deportation.

Those fears also discourage many of them from going to homeless shelters.

"The ones who are illegal here are afraid that we are going to ask them for
documents, and that we are going to turn them in" to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said Paul Confer, director of the Bethesda Shelter for
Men. "They also feel confused when they come here and nobody can talk to them in
their language."

Betty Valdez, a spokeswoman for Montgomery's Office of Hispanic Affairs, said
she had heard there are homeless men sleeping in local parks, but the agency
hasn't addressed the problem.

Recently, at the invitation of a reporter, Arevalo had his first substantial
lunch in months in a McDonald's. He had never set foot in one before.

"This is the first hamburger I have eaten since I came," he said, munching on
french fries and a bacon cheeseburger.

"The last time I ate well was a long time ago. Sometimes I eat pizza from
7-Elevens, when I have money," he said.

Arevalo's friend, Jose', said that hunger has sometimes driven him to think
about stealing from grocery stores.

"Sometimes I have gone three days without eating a thing, my head spinning," he
said. "But I don't dare to steal because I know the price for that. We are not
delinquents, we are like everyone else, just hungry and homeless. And that's not
our fault."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOSE', ABOVE, IS A HOMELESS IMMIGRANT WHO TRIES TO FIND JOBS
DURING THE DAY AND SLEEPS IN A PARK AT NIGHT. AT RIGHT, ALFREDO AREVALO WALKS
THROUGH THE PARK WHERE HE SLEEPS. RICH LIPSKI

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              189 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 10, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Syria's Jewish Residents Begin Systematic Exodus;
Departures Trouble Many in Old Community

Nora Boustany, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 2068 words

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria


For centuries, soft chants and prayers from the shaded synagogues of Damascus
echoed through the same alleys as those of the Muslim muezzins from nearby
mosques. But as hope for an Israeli-Arab peace shimmers in the distance, one of
the world's oldest Jewish communities is on its way out of Syria.

In the quaint Jewish quarter of narrow lanes, ornate little houses, small tailor
shops and kosher butchers, old men wearing yarmulkes stroll about in a daze as
their world wanders away from them.

"Our people are dizzy, as if drunk," explained Rabbi Ibrahim Hamra, the
charismatic chief rabbi of Syrian Jewry, as he sought to come to grips with what
was happening inside his own community.

An order by Syrian President Hafez Assad on April 27 lifting travel restrictions
on Syria's Jews -- thus allowing entire families to travel together, like other
Syrians -- has led to a systematic exodus of Syrian Jews to the United States.
More than a few, however, question whether they are doing the right thing.

Of the 3,800 Jews, whose ancestors have lived here since the days of King David,
700 already have left. Passports have been issued to a total of 906, almost
one-fourth of the community, according to Syrian Gen. Mahfouz Kayali, head of
the Directorate of Immigration and Passports.

Between April 29 and July 30, he said, 682 exit permits were granted.

While some are wavering about leaving Syria and thinking of strategies that
would allow them to get a foothold abroad but keep their shops operating here,
others say they see the handwriting on the wall. "You want the truth? One year
from now there won't be one Jew left in Syria," one of them said.

The rooftop view from the newly refurbished Alliance School in the heart of the
hara, or Jewish quarter, takes in the Bilal Mosque, the well-known Muezzin of
the Prophet, a Christian cemetery enveloped in greenery and a panorama of the
Old City of Damascus.

Business at Joseph Laham's kosher butcher shop is one-third what it used to be.
Laham's, a shop that has existed for generations, is selling only about 900
pounds of meat a week compared with the 1,300 of three months ago. A worker
stuffing strings of kosher sausages said his boss might have to follow his
clientele. About five butchers cater to the Damascus community, which now
consumes 1.1 tons of meat a week, according to Abdullah Qatash, another kosher
butcher from across the street, who is planning to join his son and daughter in
Brooklyn.

"We do not consider this an exodus, but an acquisition of our rights," explained
Nessim Hasbani, a physician, lay leader and spokesman for the Damascus Jewish
community.

Previously, it was illegal for Jews to emigrate or to travel to Israel, as it is
for all Syrians, and those wishing to leave for good had to be smuggled overland
to Lebanon or Turkey, often risking jail sentences or even their lives.

Prevented from traveling together for more than 40 years, Jewish families can
now go abroad without leaving their loved ones behind. They are seizing the
opportunity to leave, fearful that the doors may be shut again before a
permanent peace comes to the Middle East. Some are torn by the sudden challenge
of the move and of giving up everything they have worked for; others seem eager
to try their chances elsewhere and grow impatient with the red tape of Syrian
intelligence and immigration officials.

"Where there is good fortune, take it," Syrian rabbis advise their followers.

Their good fortune did not come easily. Assad decided to let the Jews of Syria
go after years of pressure from Washington and world organizations -- pressure
that intensified in the new atmosphere of Arab-Israeli peace negotiations. Assad
fulfilled a dream of Syrian Jews, but turned the world of this industrious,
close-knit community on its head.

After leading quiet, sheltered lives -- able to practice their religion but
careful to avoid the sensitivities and contradictions of existence in an Arab
confrontation state that, until recently, thrived on its vocal animosity to
Israel -- Syrian Jews have never been better treated by the regime. Two weeks
ago, Assad instructed his Interior Ministry to stop stamping "Mussawi" --
follower of Moses -- on the citizenship identification cards of Syrian Jews.

When Assad's mother died last month, Hamra and Hasbani drove to the president's
home town to offer condolences.

"A good woman is like the good earth. Losing one's mother is losing what is
dearest to us," the rabbi murmured to the president, after being ushered to the
front of throngs of people waiting outside. Photographs of Hamra and Hasbani
shaking hands with Assad were splashed on the front pages of the official
al-Baath and Tishrin newspapers. Hasbani went everywhere the next day with a
newspaper proudly stuffed under his arm.

Since a landmark meeting between Jewish community leaders and Assad last spring,
the status and prestige of Syrian Jews have soared. On Assad's instructions, two
brothers imprisoned for trying to emigrate to Israel were released and officials
started work on the changes that led to lifting the "Mussawi" designation on
identity cards and ending the restrictions preventing families from traveling
abroad together.

Prominent Jews here shrug off suggestions that they have been pawns in the games
of nations. They focus instead on tactical political and material benefits.

"All that interests me is what is good for our community," Hasbani said. But he,
too, is tormented by the stress of a decision awaiting him. Having studied
medicine at Damascus University in Arabic, he cannot practice in the United
States.

His wife and two daughters have left, but he is reluctant to abandon his
practice. "I have a bank here," he joked of his neatly kept clinic, adorned with
posters of Assad.

Hasbani sees 50 to 70 patients a day, at least one-third of them at no charge in
return for favors from Syrian intelligence agents with responsibility for the
Jewish community.

Such arrangements by Damascus Jews are common in dealing with one of the Middle
East's most feared intelligence services. Jews are closely guarded and sometimes
interrogated by intelligence agents who have the power to facilitate or block
their dealings with the Syrian government, one of the Arab world's harshest on
its own citizens and one of the toughest in its stance toward Israel.

"People think they are going to live like kings outside," Hamra said. "Here our
traditions are different; there is more affection and warmth." A few days
earlier, Hamra parted from his 17-year-old son, Sobhi, who left to join his
grandmother and uncles in Brooklyn.

On a recent evening, two days after Hamra underwent gallbladder surgery, Hamra's
suite at the Hospital St. Louis was filled with flower baskets from Syrian
officials and well-wishers and crowded with followers who came to bid him
farewell before departing in the morning.

"Everybody cried and the rabbi cried with them. They were anxious and sad, but
it was a beautiful moment," Hamra's wife, Henriette, said.

"With each one of them leaving, I feel part of my body is being stripped away,"
Hamra, 49, said of his emigrating visitors.

But as painful and disruptive as their emigration can be, dozens of Jews each
week are taking advantage of Assad's new directive and are leaving. The praise
for the Syrian president is unending, but the bitterness of past bad times
cannot be forgotten.

"We have done well and prospered as a community under President Assad," Hamra's
wife observed. "This has been our golden age, and other Syrians are jealous now
of how we are being treated, but there is this constant fear that the times will
change again. "What if the regime does not last and things go back to what they
were? People are afraid of the future."

Until 1975, Jews were restricted to an area within 2 1/2 miles of their
residential and work areas. At midnight, Syrian security agents would check to
see if they were in bed. In 1949, 11 Jews were killed and 60 injured when a man
hurled a bomb at their synagogue.

The most threatening period came during the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, when armed
"popular committees" took to the streets and stormed the Jewish quarter with
submachine guns. "They all entered our homes at the same moment," Hamra said.
"The whole community was going to be liquidated. We consider it a divine miracle
that we all lived. No one told them to attack; no one told them to stop."

"You are asking why the Jews of Syria want to leave?" Hasbani, the physician,
asked. "The past was dark for us indeed before President Assad changed things
around."

Reports from a wealthy Syrian Jew who returned to Damascus last week after a
three-month exploratory visit to New York, however, were discouraging to the
Jews here. Hard-working middle-class professionals, merchants and artisans who
had fanciful visions of easy money in the United States have been jarred by
reality.

Many of those who have gone to the United States are stunned at the lack of
employment opportunities, as they struggle with English language lessons and an
unfamiliar environment. The older generation is contemplating travel to Israel.

Jewish organizations in the United States have made the move there attractive,
offering free housing and food for the first six months, but many who have gone
there are beginning to worry about the winter months -- how to pay their rent
and what to do with themselves.

"They are very depressed," said Selim Hamadani, a young antique dealer who
visited Brooklyn last month. "The women want to stay, but the men are crying
because they cannot get used to the idea of not working. The essence of every
man is the work he does. These people don't have anything here anymore, and one
jeweler I know who had a shop in Salhiye [a wealthy Damascus neighborhood] is
working as a porter in Brooklyn, unloading boxes in a retail store. The man
looks like he has lost 40 pounds."

"For us, we are rich," said a businessman who identified himself only as Daoud.
"It does not matter where we stay or where we go; here is a better life for us.
But the majority think they could live better outside."

Daoud's younger brother said, "The big question is: Why should we leave now,
when we are doing so well? Our business is here. We have the best shops. But
sooner or later, we all have to go. We are leaving just because all the others
are going and our lives are connected to one another. Can you remove your arm
and leave it behind? My wife wants to go because her family is out already and
she is lonely without them. A lot of my friends have applied to leave. They are
happy because they feel their life will change in a major way. I believe they
will regret it later."

The big merchants are reluctant to leave their thriving enterprises behind and
probably will be the last to depart, but "the hemorrhaging is such that they too
will be sucked out," one diplomat here predicted.

Real estate prices -- unaffordable in the Jewish quarter a year ago -- have
plummeted. Those who can sell their property abroad are doing so, but others are
holding on to their homes and shops out of fear they may be stopped at the
airport. Syrians are not allowed to take more than $ 2,000 in foreign currency
out of the country. Sources in the community said some were managing to transfer
more funds through banking connections in Beirut and local contacts.

At the Al Jisr tailor shop of Isaac Enbe, a group of men huddled around a small
table to sip Turkish coffee, smoke and converse. "After 1980, our times were
good, We made money. We were energized," Enbe, a father of five, said.
"Nevertheless, We will end up leaving in spite of ourselves. Our community life
is important to us."

Nassim Balle was less enthusiastic about leaving, saying his textile business is
doing well. Simon Halaby said if he did not have two daughters, he would not
contemplate moving.

"My personal opinion is that if there is peace, everyone will return from
Brooklyn," Hasbani said. "We all have relatives in Israel, all of us. Wouldn't
it be lovely if we left on Friday night to have dinner with them in Israel and
returned to our work in Damascus on Sunday morning?

"It would be so much easier than going all the way to Brooklyn," the physician
said, as others nodded in agreement.

"This is our great wish. We are dreaming about it. Let's hope it comes true,"
said Enbe.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: MAP, IN THIS 1972 PHOTO, MEMBERS OF A JEWISH FAMILY STAND ON THE
BALCONY OF THEIR HOME IN THE JEWISH SECTION OF DAMASCUS. BRAD WYE; PHOTO, UPI

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              190 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 20, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

A Long Road to Recognition;
50 Years Later, Filipino Comrades Become U.S. Citizens

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D1

LENGTH: 866 words


The deal with the Filipino jungle warriors was struck a half century ago, in the
heat of war, and now some of those same soldiers found themselves thousands of
miles from home, standing erect beneath the drop ceiling of an Arlington office
and ready to collect on a debt.

Yesterday's ceremony at the regional headquarters of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service ended what the agency's district director, William J.
Carroll, diplomatically called "the very long road" for these World War II
veterans -- a subtle reference to a protracted struggle for citizenship that
Filipino veterans say still has brought only partial victory.

Once members of a guerrilla army that fought the Japanese occupation of their
country, the 26 aging veterans stood stoically before the color guard, singing
the American national anthem from memory and then pledging allegiance to the
American flag. Their ranks included field officers, an army surgeon and the
infantrymen who made up a crucial wartime information network called the "bamboo
telegraph."

"I am inspired to be here," said Benito Valdez, 70, who like most of the others
is in the United States for the first time. "From my childhood, I really love
America, so much so that at that time we fought side by side."

Valdez and many of the others were called into service in 1941, when President
Franklin D. Roosevelt ordered Gen. Douglas MacArthur to mobilize the Philippine
army as part of the war effort.

A law passed by Congress the next year made all aliens who served in the U.S.
military eligible to apply for citizenship, and thousands elsewhere took
advantage.

But the Philippines was under Japanese occupation for most of the war, and the
250,000 Filipinos who made up the guerrilla army were unable to apply.

After the war, Filipino officials feared that naturalization would rob the
country of many of its young men and successfully pressed U.S. officials to end
the practice -- the first of several frustrating setbacks for veterans.

Although the wartime legislation was offered again in 1946, the Philippines was
shortchanged because the U.S. vice consul arrived only four months before the
statute expired.

Many eligible veterans, spread throughout the vast archipelago, never learned
that they were eligible.

Veterans who immigrated to the United States later pressed their case in court,
a long process that ended in defeat in 1984 when the Supreme Court overturned a
lower court ruling that Filipino veterans had been unfairly denied citizenship.

Afterward, veterans in Los Angeles sought the help of Rep. Mervyn M. Dymally
(D-Calif.), a naturalized American citizen from Trinidad.

Dymally and Sen. Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii) included a special provision for
Filipino war veterans in the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1990.

The result was a considerable compromise for Filipinos, who under the law are
not eligible for benefits or other compensation usually afforded veterans.

Medical benefits alone would have cost several billion dollars and would have
kept the provision from passing, according to officials who took part in the
negotiations.

The Filipino World War II Veterans Equity Act, introduced by Dymally in 1991,
would extend benefits but stands little chance of passage, said Marwan Burgan,
Dymally's administrative aide.

There are an estimated 150,000 alien veterans of World War II, most of them
living in the Philippines.

INS officials said 17,000 have applied for citizenship and 7,000 have been
naturalized, almost all on the West Coast or Hawaii.

Citizenship allows them to apply for Social Security and enables them to sponsor
relatives.

That Filipinos were excluded for so long made yesterday's ceremony -- the first
on the East Coast -- bittersweet to those who fought for the legislation.

They remembered, for example, that immediately after the war Filipinos were paid
only 50 cents on the dollar for war-related injuries or death.

"A Filipino soldier who was lucky enough to come out uninjured gets nothing,
except for having fought under the American flag. That is really unwarranted
discrimination," said Guillermo O. Rumigan, a member of Filipino War Veterans
Inc., the national group that lobbied Congress.

"Many have died without realizing benefits," the group's national chairman,
Patrick K.G. Ganio Jr., told the new citizens yesterday. "Our mission here, as
Filipino veterans, has not been completed."

The larger issue aside, the veterans yesterday remembered a war fought almost
entirely in the jungle with few supplies.

Their commanders in some instances were American officers, and that is how some
learned the words to the national anthem and first dreamed of coming to America.

Valdez and Regino P. Natividad, also 70, were members of a battalion that
included Ganio, who served as executive officer.

"The Japanese are plenty, sir. Thousands of them," Natividad said, struggling to
describe the war in English. "They have plenty of arms. Strong arms. And we
Filipinos, we have only few guns, sir.

"We are suffering of hunger. We suffer plenty. Hardness fighting with those
people. We are happy we are alive until now, to take our American citizenship."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GENARO CARINO, 78, SINGS THE U.S. NATIONAL ANTHEM DURING
CEREMONIES AT INS HEADQUARTERS IN ARLINGTON. LUCIAN PERKINS

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              191 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 22, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Area's Ethnic Publications See Growth;
Newspapers Gaining Readers, Advertisers

Ricardo Castillo, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 967 words


Racks full of El Tiempo Latino or La Nacion sit next to the counter at the Latin
American Market on Ennalls Avenue in Wheaton. Around the corner on University
Boulevard, Al-Hewar and Al-Nashra are displayed in the windows of the
Jordanian-owned Thomas Market. The Caribbean Connection arrives every Wednesday
at the Caribbean Supermarket on Triangle Lane.

They are only a sample of at least 30 free, largely foreign-language newspapers
found weekly in the Washington area's ethnic stores. About 20 were founded in
the last two years as immigrant communities reached a size that can support
businesses and, not coincidentally, advertisers.

"Most recently arrived immigrants, whatever their nationality, don't read local
[daily] papers," said Armando Chapeli, a Cuban-born businessman who started the
weekly El Tiempo Latino in March 1991. "Because of their poor English, they rely
on publications like ours to connect with the American mainstream."

Catering mainly to those who do not speak English, these papers provide
information about everything from day care to English courses to where to find
jobs, and also news about issues affecting their homelands. Most are published
once a week or every other week and usually have only a handful of employees and
part-time contributors.

Some claim circulations of from 10,000 to 20,000 copies, but their financial
fortune depends on their ability to attract advertisers from businesses in local
immigrant communities.

"These papers are very helpful to our community," said Thang Tran, chairman of
the Vietnamese Community of the Washington Area, a civic organization. "Whenever
we want to make an announcement that will affect the community or to know about
our community or our country, we'll go to the small newspapers, because major
papers don't talk about that."

In a recent edition of El Pregonero, a 15-year-old weekly backed by the Catholic
Church, news about a soccer field shared the paper's front page with an article
about the recent Latin Festival and a report from Colombia about drug baron
Pablo Escobar. An ad about medicinal plants was next to ads for the new Mambo
Chicken restaurant and its free parking in Arlington and for lawyers offering
immigration counseling.

"In the last five years, the Hispanic community has experienced a growth of
almost 100 percent," said Emilio Perche-Rivas, executive director of the
Hispanic American Chamber of Commerce. "In Montgomery County alone, we have 300
new businesses -- restaurants, construction companies, cleaning companies -- and
some have experienced annual revenues of over $ 1 million."

The number of people in the Washington region who speak a language other than
English at home increased almost 92 percent from 1980 to 1990, according to the
Census Bureau.

Vernon Gutjahr, a Falls Church immigration lawyer, said he prefers to advertise
in Al-Nashra, a monthly business magazine serving the Arab-American community,
rather than in The Washington Post.

"I've had incredible results because this is the media my clientele reads," he
said.

Many of the owners of the publications see themselves as more sensitive to the
plight of their communities than the English-language media is, and in most
cases they play the role of advocates.

"These papers have a function that The Washington Post can't and shouldn't
play," said Ana Margarita Acosta, a reporter with El Pregonero. "We speak about
and for the community's rights and benefits, about the political process of
becoming part of the mainstream. I'd like to see in major newspapers something
about a Hispanic artist in town or news about soccer games in the sports
section, but they are just not interested and that's why we exist."

Ken Toppin, who was born in Trinidad and Tobago, sees his role as editor of the
Caribbean Connection as unifying immigrants from the area.

"My paper serves as a voice for those who are becoming integrated in this
country," he said. "We are not only a sorry story of immigration, of homeless
individuals. We have to highlight our success and the role of those who helped
in the formation of the American community."

Not all the papers are commercially successful. Some say the market is glutted
with publications that come out and quickly disappear because of ill-planned
marketing and lack of financial resources.

"There are too many newspapers around and we only need one of them to get our
message to our potential buyers," said Jose Diaz, who handles Hispanic media
advertising for the Brown auto dealership in Arlington. "To advertise in more
than one would be just a waste of money because they probably get the same
readership."

"Many of these papers come and go because they are personal ventures that are
not always successful," said Steven Kendall, a professor of visual media at
American University. "They don't really have what you would call a market
study."

Andy Min, a Korean businessman and general manager of the weekly Lotte News,
said the market is good because "big corporations are realizing the importance
of advertising directly to minorities. But that is also a limited market because
they are going to choose probably only one newspaper to do that."

"Most newspapers are conceived by people who want to make money, not journalism,
and, with few exceptions, they are either breaking even or losing," said Jorge
Ban

iales, an Uruguayan journalist with United Press International, who was editor
of the now-defunct Informacion for six months. "It only took me $ 1,200 and a
computer to put the paper together and when we published our last issue, 22
others came out that week. Many of them wouldn't exist shortly after.

"It is the free enterprise and the free expression that makes everybody go crazy
and think they should publish something in America."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, KUN TIAN

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS, VIRGINIA NEWS, DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              192 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 24, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Targeting a Niche With Ethnic Advertising;
Foreign-Language Telephone Directories Growing in Popularity

Snigdha Prakash, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F6

LENGTH: 700 words


When Puerto Rico-born dentist Jeanette Coutin-Gentry set up her Arlington
practice last year, she turned to Washington's Hispanic Yellow Pages to reach
her primary market -- Spanish-speaking immigrants.

Best Realty & Investment Corp. of Annandale, a Korean-owned real estate company
in which 90 percent of its business comes from selling small stores and first
homes to Korean immigrants, has a similar advertising strategy. The company
places full-page ads in Washington's two Korean-language telephone yellow pages.

Though Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Cos.' Yellow Pages and Donnelly
Marketing's The One Book have wide circulation, Best Realty does not list itself
in those publications. "I don't expect much reaction" from those yellow pages,
broker Ui K. Chung said.

Recognizing the market niche, independent publishers within these ethnic
communities list businesses owned by members of their community. Businesses that
advertise in ethnic yellow pages said those advertisements -- in conjunction
with advertisements in ethnic newspapers, and on radio and television -- can be
effective in reaching customers. The cost also is less than advertising in
mass-market yellow pages, business executives said.

The Washington area has two Korean-language yellow pages advertising
Korean-owned businesses and one Spanish-language yellow pages. According to the
1990 census, the area's Hispanic population is estimated at 230,000. Korean-born
residents number about 80,000. Later this year yellow pages directed at the
area's Indian and Pakistani population are expected to be published.

Among the Korean community in Washington, for example, many consumers prefer to
turn to other Koreans for a variety of needs.

"For example when you go to doctors, it is more comfortable to speak in Korean,"
said Doyung Lee, president of the Annandale-based Korean Association of Greater
Washington, which publishes the Korean Directory, one of two Korean-language
yellow pages.

The nonprofit association's 1992 directory has 384 pages of advertisements for
Korean-owned businesses, including mortgage companies, beauty salons, insurance
agents, real estate agents and electricians. About 25,000 copies of the
directory were printed and distributed free at Korean groceries, Lee said.
Advertising revenue on the project was about $ 20,000 in 1992, which covered
costs.

The Washington area's other Korean language directory is published by the Korea
Times, a Korean-language daily paper, published simultaneously in Seoul and
several American cities, including Washington.

The Korean Business Directory has about 430 pages of business listings and ads
for Korean-owned businesses. It raised $ 80,000 in advertising revenue in 1992,
and also broke even, said Taehee Yoo, publisher of the newspaper in Washington.
About 20,000 copies were mailed to the newspaper's subscribers and distributed
at Korean groceries.

Washington's 1992 Hispanic Yellow Pages had advertising by 1,300 area businesses
and raised $ 600,000 in advertising revenue, said Francisco Vega, executive
director of McLean-based Vega & Associates, which publishes the profitable
directory.

About 75,000 directories will be distributed free through 500 businesses,
including Hispanic grocery stores, lawyer's offices, doctor's offices and some
Giant Food supermarkets and 7-Eleven and High's convenience stores.

"I look at the Korean yellow pages," said Yong Park, whose husband owns Eastern
Business Machines in Vienna and advertises in the Korean yellow pages. "If I
find a quality person [who is Korean], then I do go with them. I am looking for
a Korean first."

Not all businesses that advertise in the ethnic directories are owned by members
of the ethnic group. Thirty percent of the advertisers in the Hispanic yellow
pages are non-Hispanic. That market represents the greatest growth potential for
the directory, Vega said.

So far C&P Telephone and Donnelly Marketing have not ventured into the ethnic
yellow pages market.

"We have to guarantee a certain degree of profitability, and so far we have not
been able to do that," said Stephanie Hobbs, a spokeswoman for Bell Atlantic
Directory Services in Bethesda.?


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, BEST REALTY AGENTS GET 90 PERCENT OF THEIR BUSINESS FROM KOREAN
IMMIGRANTS. RAY LUSTIG

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              193 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 25, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Immigrant Anglers Line Potomac Banks;
Hispanic and Asian Fishermen See River as Source of Food, Place to Relax With
Friends

Robert O'Harrow Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B6

LENGTH: 707 words


Day and night, they have become a familiar part of the landscape along the
Potomac River, building campfires to cook their food and sometimes taking home
buckets full of fish to feed their families.

Hispanic and Asian immigrants, a rare sight on the riverbanks only a few years
ago, now dot the rocky shores daily from Georgetown to Great Falls. For many of
the low-income newcomers, some of whom speak little English, the river is an
important source of food and represents a place where a common interest --
fishing -- provides a relaxed atmosphere to communicate with immigrants of other
cultures.

"They feel they are in the same community," Juan Hernandez, a native of El
Salvador who now lives in the District, said of the Potomac's immigrant
fishermen as he watched a friend fish beneath Chain Bridge. "We make friends
down here."

Police and park officials say it's difficult to determine how many immigrants
fish the Potomac each day, in part because most do not buy fishing licenses.

Officer Dennis Hance, of the District's harbor police unit, said the area's wave
of immigration in the last few years is reflected in the department's log of
those cited for unlicensed fishing, which is filled with Hispanic and Asian
surnames. The District requires anglers to purchase a $ 5 annual license.

There are other signs along the river. Charred campfire sites dot the shoreline
where immigrant fishermen gather to cook their catch. Tangled fishing lines and
litter mark many of their favorite spots. Park and law enforcement officials who
patrol the river in the District, Virginia and Maryland say that in the last few
years they have come across fishermen who speak only their native languages.

Because many of the immigrant fishermen are unemployed or have low-paying jobs,
their fishing equipment often is makeshift.

In Arlington one recent afternoon, Juan Martinez used a fishing line attached to
a bottle to pull in a hefty catfish. As he balanced on the rocks, Martinez said
he began fishing as a way to relax and be with his son, who was playing with
catfish they kept in small pools of water.

Martinez, 40, a carpenter from Arlington who came from El Salvador, said he
believes that many of the immigrants fish because they have not been able to
find jobs.

Up the shoreline, a group of Spanish-speaking teenagers made a camp and used
homemade fishing rods to catch an eel and sunfish. Across the river in the
District, one Hispanic man used an ocean surf-casting rod, while another waded
into the river with a throw-net.

Pastor Tae Park, of Korean American Community Services in Montgomery County,
said many Asian immigrants developed a love of fishing in their home countries
and now fish the Potomac as "some kind of an escape" from the pressures of being
in a strange land.

But many fish simply to put food on the table. Alfredo, 21, who declined to give
his full name, said he has a wife and two children and sees the Potomac as a
provider.

"I like to fish," said Alfredo, who carried a bucket full of makeshift fishing
gear, weights and hooks. "It helps me to feed [my family] too."

Because pollution levels have declined considerably in the Potomac in recent
years, officials say, it is safe to eat virtually all of the fish caught there,
though they recommend limiting consumption of catfish, carp and eel to a
half-pound a week per person.

Hance said he has seen many immigrants risk wading into dangerous waters so they
can use nets to haul in fish. Police have estimated that of the more than 15
people who have drowned in the river between the District and Great Falls in the
last two years, at least half have been immigrants.

"They're trying to feed themselves and their families . . . . They don't throw
anything back," said Hance, who has worked on the river for about four years.
"They'll have whole families come [to the riverbanks], everyone from 2-year-olds
in diapers to grandma and grandpa."

"It's phenomenal what they catch," said Joseph Fletcher, who runs Fletcher's
Boat House, just north of Georgetown. He said that since the mid-1980s, Asian
and Hispanic fishermen have replaced other fishermen in several areas along the
river. "You see the same people, day after day."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, D.C. HARBOR PATROL OFFICER DENNIS HANCE CHECKS FOR FISHING
LICENSES. THESE FISHERMEN WERE WARNED TO GET THEM. LARRY MORRIS

TYPE: FEATURE

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              194 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 26, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Immigrants' Impact on the Neighborhood

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 226 words


The neighborhood in which local parks have become havens for the homeless
immigrants chronicled in the Aug. 7 Metro story "Immigrants Find American Dream
as Elusive as Sleep" has a story to tell too. These people not only are sleeping
in the parks, they are trashing them.

Walk through our parks, and you'll find mounds of debris accumulated in the few
short months since the last cleanup by community volunteers. In recent weeks,
local residents have encountered Hispanic men setting fires, running around
naked and drinking and littering profusely. Our government is failing to enforce
basic immigration and public-nuisance laws and to protect us from antisocial
behavior by these "guests," invited or otherwise. Our country does not have the
room or the work for the world's unskilled workers, no matter how deserving. We
are not helping these people by letting them stay here when there is no work.

These unlucky men are not sinking into drunken despair in isolation -- they are
damaging the community as they do so. The stagnant local economy is unlikely to
produce any significant work for Alfredo Arevalo and his friends anytime soon.
Let's do them, and us, a favor, and help them go home, where, although there are
no more jobs than here, they have the community and family support to help them
stay sober. DOROTHEA FORTES WOLFE Bethesda To my astonishment the writer was
DOROTHEA FORTES WOLFE. Myself. Please be aware:

I did not write the letter.

The views expressed in it are antithetical to my own.

The Post's article of Aug. 7 ["Immigrants Find American Dream as Elusive as
Sleep," Metro] caused me to feel sympathy for these individuals and their plight
rather than anger directed at them.

DOROTHEA F. WOLFE Bethesda Editor's Note: The letter attributed to Dorothea
Fortes Wolfe was actually written by Daniel H. Houck of Silver Spring. The
attribution was wrong because of an editing error. The Post regrets this error.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: I had just finished reading The Post's lead letter of Aug. 26 on the
Buchanan speech ["Us vs. Them"], when my eye alighted on the letter directly
beneath entitled "Immigrants' Impact on the Neighborhood."

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              195 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 29, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. Rules Out Demjanjuk's Repatriation;
Justice Dept. Asserts Law Blocks Reentry

Sharon LaFraniere, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 313 words


Justice Department lawyers told a federal appeals court this week that John
Demjanjuk cannot return to the United States even if an Israeli court overturns
his conviction as the Nazi death-camp guard known as "Ivan the Terrible."

Whether Demjanjuk is the notorious former gas-chamber operator at the Treblinka
death camp, the department's lawyers argued, documentary evidence shows that he
was an SS guard at the Sobibor death camp and two concentration camps.

"Demjanjuk's service as an SS guard at any one of these camps was sufficient to
render him ineligible for immigration," the government's lawyers said.

The government urged the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati to
reject Demjanjuk's reentry request at least temporarily if the Israeli Supreme
Court frees him.

Evidence released by the former Soviet Union last year has strengthened
Demjanjuk's contention that Treblinka survivors misidentified him as Ivan the
Terrible, mistaking him for another man whose whereabouts are unknown.

Government lawyers told the court that a 1984 deportation order bars Demjanjuk,
72, a former Cleveland auto worker, from reentering the country, regardless of
what the Israeli court decides. "Demjanjuk's citizenship was illegally procured
and procured through material misrepresentations," the government said in a
brief filed late Thursday.

Only the U.S. attorney general can grant him reentry, it said.

The Cincinnati court reopened Demjanjuk's seven-year extradition case this
summer after published reports of the new Soviet evidence. The court is
investigating whether the Justice Department improperly withheld information
while seeking his extradition.

Demjanjuk's attorneys have expressed concern that Israel may send him to one of
the republics of the former Soviet Union, where several Ukrainians believed to
have served as SS guards were executed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              196 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 31, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Haitian Refugees Burn Camp;
Navy Says Protesters Seek Repatriation

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A7

LENGTH: 376 words


Some Haitian refugees being held at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
set fire to their plywood living quarters Saturday to protest camp security
measures and to demand that they be returned to Haiti, a Navy spokesman said
yesterday.

The protesters numbered 63 of the roughly 290 Haitians who remain at Camp
Bulkeley, including about 233 who the military says have tested positive for the
virus that causes AIDS.

All have been accepted as candidates for asylum in the United States but have
been prevented from entering the country because immigration law excludes
immigrants who are HIV positive. With them are family members who chose to stay.

Lawyers for the Haitians and the U.S. government are in a legal battle over how
these special cases are to be processed. It is among the issues that the Supreme
Court has been asked to decide.

Lt. Cmdr. Morgan Smith, a spokesman for the U.S. Atlantic Command in Norfolk,
said Saturday's disturbance began when 50 Haitians tore down a plywood movie
screen and used the wood to bridge the razor-sharp concertina-wire barrier
separating Camp Bulkeley from Camp 7, a compound used to segregate Haitians who
have committed crimes or broken camp rules. About 13 migrants from Camp 7
crossed the barrier and joined the larger group.

The 63 then set fire to the 12 buildings, which are large enough to house 20
people each. The buildings were empty when the fires were set and none of the
Haitians was injured, Smith said. Seven of the buildings were destroyed. One
military firefighter was treated for smoke inhalation.

The disturbance was quelled through negotiation with military officials and the
separation of the instigators from the larger group. A Defense Department
spokesman said some of those who joined the disturbance also allegedly had taken
part in a melee July 17 that resulted in numerous minor injuries to both the
refugees and the military.

The Haitians' demand to be returned to Haiti could not be independently
confirmed last night. They have had numerous opportunities to voluntarily
repatriate.

Since a military coup in Haiti last September, the INS has processed about
37,000 Haitians who fled their island nation by boat. About 26,000 of those were
returned to Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              197 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 4, 1992, Friday, Capital Edition

4 Haitians With HIV Admitted to U.S.;
Entry of Refugees for Medical Care Said to Be No Change in Policy

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A8

LENGTH: 449 words


The Justice Department's decision to admit four HIV-positive Haitian refugees
into the United States for medical care does not mean a change in the
government's ban on immigrants with the AIDS virus, a department official said
yesterday.

But the action does signal that the care the Haitians are receiving at the U.S.
Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, may not be comprehensive enough to handle
their special needs, the official said.

A man with an eye infection was granted a "humanitarian parole" 10 days ago to
receive medical treatment at Bethesda Naval Medical Center. He is being held at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in New York.

INS officials this week granted the same status to a mother and her infant son,
who is being treated for double pneumonia at a hospital in Norfolk.

Justice Department officials were prepared to grant parole last week to a woman
who was about to give birth, but after military doctors at Guantanamo Bay
determined that the birth was less risky than they first thought, she remained
there, the Justice Department official said. The mother and child are doing
fine, said INS spokesman Duke Austin.

The departures lower to 231 the number of HIV-positive Haitians who remain at
Guantanamo Bay with about 59 relatives. Public health officials said last month
that at least 23 had developed actual or suspected AIDS symptoms. All of the
Haitians were granted initial clearance to pursue their asylum claims in the
United States but were prevented from coming here because of a law that bars the
entry of immigrants with certain communicable diseases. They were among 37,000
Haitians who fled the nation after a coup last year.

Because the medical conditions of some within the refugee population could
deteriorate, it is possible that other Haitians may need to be flown to the
United States for treatment, Austin said.

The Justice Department official, who asked not to be identified, said the
medical care being provided at Guantanamo "is fine, but we are not going to take
the position that the medical care down there can handle every possible thing
that comes up. . . . We've reacted in the responsible and humane way."

The Haitians at Guantanamo are caught in a legal limbo because of a court battle
over the processing of their asylum claims. Lawyers who have sued the government
argue that the Haitians should be allowed legal counsel to pursue their asylum
claims. The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals this spring ordered the government
to allow lawyers to interview the Haitians. The government unsuccessfully
appealed that ruling and has until late October to ask the Supreme Court to rule
on the issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS, NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              198 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 10, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Language Called Barrier to Success;
State Panel Told Programs Could Improve Lives of Immigrants

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V3

LENGTH: 1175 words


Dozens of immigrants and community activists from Northern Virginia pleaded with
legislators at a state-sponsored meeting in Arlington last week to provide
increased funding for language training and social programs that would improve
life for the state's foreign-born residents.

The public hearing, held last Thursday in the Arlington County government
building, was the first in a series of hearings to be held across Virginia on
the needs of Virginia's immigrant communities. The hearings are being conducted
by a joint subcommittee of the state Assembly and Senate.

The greatest concern expressed by the 100 or so people at the two-hour hearing
was that few immigrants can afford even low-cost government-sponsored English
classes. Many of those who can, said Del. Karen L. Darner (D-Arlington), the
committee chairman, find that the classes are too short to be of much help in
finding a job.

"The bottom line is the language," Darner said. "The kind of stereotype you hear
about is why don't these people learn English." The picture painted by the
speakers at the hearing, Darner said, is "there just aren't the opportunities
out there for them to do it."

Members of the committee studying immigrants' needs include Darner; Del. Robert
Tata (R-Virginia Beach); Sen. L. Louise Lucas (D-Norfolk); Del. Marian Van
Landingham (D-Alexandria); Del. Alan E. Mayer (D-Fairfax); Sen. Robert L.
Calhoun (R-Alexandria); Sen. Janet D. Howell (D-Reston), who is the committee's
vice chairman; and Virginia Health Commissioner Robert Stroube.

Among the speakers at the meeting were members of the Cambodian, Vietnamese,
Nicaraguan, Salvadoran and Korean communities, all describing the sometimes
difficult conditions under which they live and asking the legislators for
increased assistance.

Lawn Young, an official of Cambodian Children's Assistance Inc., complained
about the poor quality of translations he has seen at school and county
government offices into his native language.

"My assumption is it is not being translated by a Cambodian-born person," he
said.

Almost all of the immigrants and social workers who spoke, however, focused on
the difficulties immigrants have learning English. Some work several jobs and
have difficulty finding the time or energy to take classes, they said. Many
recent immigrants are illiterate in their native languages. Others may have been
university educated but, without adequate English skills, are reduced to menial
labor in this country.

"It is very difficult for us to improve our English after only three months of
classes," said Hoang Tran, a native of Vietnam. "It is very difficult for us to
support a big family on janitorial jobs that pay $ 4 an hour."

Ricardo Drumond, a social worker for the Alexandria Department of Human Services
who works with the Latino community, said the difficulties immigrants face in
their language skills compound other problems.

"There has been an increase in domestic violence, child abuse and neglect,
evictions, family breakdowns, problems with the legal system," among others, he
said.

Drumond teaches an English class in Alexandria that serves about 400 mostly
Spanish-speaking adult students each year.

"Without skills in English," Drumond said, immigrants in the area "will always
be underemployed, underpaid and socially and economically dependent."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              199 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 10, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Refugees Policy Protested;
95 Supporters of Haitians Arrested Outside White House

Gary Lee, Molly Sinclair, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A9

LENGTH: 521 words


With the White House at their backs and a crowd of cheering Haitian Americans
squarely in front of them, leaders of the NAACP and the advocacy group
TransAfrica yesterday called on the Bush administration to reverse its policy of
repatriating Haitian refugees.

NAACP executive director Benjamin L. Hooks, TransAfrica executive director
Randall Robinson and tennis star Arthur Ashe led about 650 activists along
Pennsylvania Avenue, stopping in front of the White House.

After chanting slogans and blocking traffic, 95 protesters -- including Ashe --
were arrested, fined and released. District Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly was among
the dignitaries who took part, but she was not arrested.

Several members of the Congressional Black Caucus, including Rep. Charles B.
Rangel (D-N.Y.), joined the protest as did other NAACP leaders, Hyman
Bookbinder, retired president of the American Jewish Committee, and 82-year-old
dancer-choreographer Katherine Dunham, who earlier this year went on a hunger
strike to protest the administration's policy.

The two-hour demonstration was the most visible stand the refugee advocates have
taken against the Bush administration's restrictive policy toward would-be
immigrants. "I'm outraged," Ashe told the rally. "They [Haitian refugees] are
entitled to a fair hearing just to see if they are indeed political refugees."

Since the September 1991 military coup that toppled Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the
Caribbean nation's first democratically elected president, the U.S. Coast Guard
has intercepted more than 37,000 Haitians who set sail for the United States.

More than 27,000 of the refugees have been returned to Haiti after being
sheltered at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but 10,736 convinced
U.S. immigration officials that they could face political persecution if sent
home.

To halt the exodus, President Bush last May ordered that any Haitians picked up
at sea be sent home without first determining whether they qualify for political
asylum.

The administration contends that the majority of the refugees are fleeing
poverty rather than political persecution.

The protesters yesterday argued that the administration is turning away Haitians
solely because they are black and poor. They called on Congress to pass
legislation that would grant the refugees temporary asylum, and urged Bush to
adopt a tougher stance on human-rights violations in Haiti as well as increase
pressure for Aristide's return.

Rangel and several other lawmakers participating in the rally pledged to push
for emergency legislation to reverse the policy.

Declaring the White House's Haiti policy "clearly and blatantly racist," and
pointing to the Bush and Reagan administration policies of admitting hundreds of
thousands of refugees from the former Soviet Union and eastern Europe, Robinson
said, "We have sealed these people into the death chambers of their own island."
Demonstrators underlined the point with banners that read, "Haitians are locked
out because they are black."

Those arrested were charged with blocking a roadway, a violation that carries a
$ 50 fine.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, TENNIS STAR ARTHUR ASHE IS LED AWAY BY POLICE OFFICER AFTER
BEING ARRESTED FOR BLOCKING STREET. LUCIAN PERKINS

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              200 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 15, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

Blacks vs. Latinos in Los Angeles

Charles Trueheart, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE B7; THE MAGAZINE READER

LENGTH: 1012 words


In "Blacks vs. Browns" (The Atlantic, October), Jack Miles wrestles with a
painful fact of his life, and the life of other whites in Los Angeles: "Latinos,
even when they are foreign, seem native and safe, while blacks, who are native,
seem foreign and dangerous. In saying this, I am saying something that I shrink
from saying and grieve to say, but I think it's true."

But Miles's cover essay is no mere white man's sensitive groping for his own
feelings. It is a marshaling of analysis and statistic, as well as his personal
experience with a Latino family, that in the end leads him to call for a
profound reevaluation of immigration policy.

Beginning with the riots after the Rodney King verdict last spring, Miles (of
the Los Angeles Times editorial page) considers not just the "Watts II
Paradigm," which regards the violence as a black-white phenomenon, but the
Black-Brown Paradigm, which regards the riots as an outgrowth of Latino, mainly
Central American, immigration.

"By an irony that I find particularly cruel, unskilled Latino immigration may be
doing to American blacks at the end of the twentieth century what the European
immigration that brought my own ancestors here did to them at the end of the
nineteenth," Miles writes. That is, squeezed them out of the low-paying,
unskilled work -- again. As he puts it, "America's older black poor and newer
brown poor are on a collision course."

This leads Miles to conclude, against powerful contrary instincts, that
controlling the influx of immigrants may be the only way to rescue the
underclass, particularly the black underclass, in the United States today. He
even raises the touchy possibility of deliberately abandoning built-in
incentives to immigration, such as educational and other state benefits that
accrue to non-citizens. To ease the pressures that a tighter border would
necessarily create on the other side, Miles tenders another wildly optimistic
suggestion -- replacing the flow of people from Third World to First with a flow
of capital from the First World to the Third.


Etiquette and Espionage

One of Washington's and magazinedom's better-kept secrets is Prologue, the
handsomely illustrated quarterly of the National Archives. The American past is
Prologue's portfolio, and the magazine's institutional obligation to illuminate
the formidable holdings of the Archives does nothing to constrain its scope of
interest. Any issue will do to make the point, but fall's is here at hand.

In "Best Foot Forward," William Seale describes the making of the modern social
White House under Theodore Roosevelt, who did away with cutaway coats and
striped trousers for the office staff, reserving that uniform for himself and
his private secretary (author of the new rules). Drawing on Archive scrapbooks
from the period, Seale describes the early professionalization of White House
ceremony, from the conscription of trusted aides to tend to guests to the
elaborate liturgy of pomp and circumstance at social events.

Another: In "An OSS Agent Behind Enemy Lines in France," Helene Deschamps-Adams
recalls her days, under the code name ANICK, running underground as a young
French recruit to the OSS, the wartime precursor to the CIA. Traveling incognito
along the country byways of southern France, Deschamps would feed her raw
intelligence of German troop movements and rail convoys to headquarters. She hid
in a closetful of apples while drunken Germans terrorized her French protectors.
She watched in silent terror as Nazi soldiers brutalized a pregnant country
woman on a roadside. Her sister Jackie was killed by gunfire in the back seat of
their speeding car. Why has Hollywood not discovered this woman?

One year/four issues, $ 12. Prologue, National Archives, Washington, D.C. 20408.


Back Pat

Lewis Lapham is beginning the 10th year of his second term as editor of
Harper's, and he has much to boast about in the changes he instituted upon his
return in 1983; the Index, the Annotation, the Readings are now honored in the
rank imitation practiced by Lapham's colleagues in journalism. And, looking back
in the October issue, boast Lapham does, strenuously distinguishing himself from
the common herd of his profession.

"Television producers and the editors of journals of large circulation rely on
the techniques of the social sciences, on the collecting of evidence supposedly
impartial from sources allegedly authoritative," he writes. "When given a choice
in the matter, they prefer data to ideas, celebrity to non-celebrity, allegory
to history. Harper's Magazine reverses the order of preference and relies on the
strategies of the humanities, on the unashamedly partial evidence of narrative
and metaphor." But not allegory.

Lapham can be windy and awash in words, but he does practice what he preaches in
the pages of Harper's -- which, he notes, has recently surpassed 200,000 in
circulation while still struggling with that old devil red ink. His essay
announces the introduction of a new feature, Folio, which (every third issue)
will print fiction and essays of "substantial" length -- in this first instance,
a novella by Don DeLillo, "Pafko at the Wall."


Marks the Spot

Transition, the recently reconstituted intellectual journal of African and
African American affairs, devotes much of its new issue (No. 56) to "The X
Factor" -- Malcolm, that is, what with the movie coming up and new bios out.
Among the X contributors: David Bradley, Michael Eric Dyson, Spike Lee
(interviewed by Transition co-editor Henry Louis Gates Jr.). Among the
contributors on other topics: Nadine Gordimer (twice), Stephen L. Carter, Shelby
Steele, Stanley Fish, Richard A. Posner, Ishmael Reed and rap artist Michael
Franti. One year/four issues, $ 19. Transition, Oxford University Press, 2001
Evans Rd., Cary, N.C. 27513-9902.

X-watchers will also want to check out the Spike Lee profile by his onetime
Brooklyn neighbor, Barbara Grizzuti Harrison, in the October Esquire, in which
Harrison's pugnacity as an interviewer wars with her abiding white guilt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              201 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 17, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Enrolling in a New Culture;
Intake Centers Help Prepare Immigrants for U.S.-Style Schooling

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V3

LENGTH: 952 words


As classes got underway in Arlington last week, corridors and classrooms that
had been empty for weeks were finally busy again.

But at the intake center, where many immigrants receive their first introduction
to school in this country, the commotion had been going on all summer. And it is
not expected to slow down for several weeks as scores of immigrant and
non-English-speaking students register to attend county schools.

For several weeks, the center's waiting room has been packed with parents from
every part of the globe. In the narrow testing room, their children scratched
out answers to simple math problems or attempted responses in English to a
tester's queries.

"Sometimes it seems like a Greyhound terminal here," said Magda Vargas, a
teacher hired to help with placement testing. "It just never seems to slow
down."

In most Washington area school districts, student populations of immigrants have
increased in recent years. To cope with the large numbers of students who don't
speak English, some school districts have opened centers like the one in
Arlington, located in a converted industrial arts building behind Kenmore Middle
School.

On a recent morning in the waiting room of the Arlington center, a mother from
Vietnam bounced an infant on her lap while waiting for an older child to
complete his testing.

On the plastic chair beside her, a mother from Bolivia browsed through a
magazine while waiting for a Spanish-speaking counselor to explain the documents
her son would need to register for classes. A few feet away, a man from El
Salvador paced the room, waiting for his teenage wife to finish the test she
needed to enter high school.

Most of the students who pass through the center are assigned to classes where
all of the course work will be done in English. They also will spend part of
their school days in separate classes where students are not fluent in English
and the language can be drilled more intensively.

Intake efforts are expanded in the peak months of August and September, when
school gymnasiums and cafeterias are used to accommodate the increased flow of
students at many schools and extra employees are hired.

Sixteen percent of the 15,000 students in the Arlington school district -- the
largest percentage in the area -- do not speak English.  In 1979, the district
became one of the first school systems to open an intake center. It originally
was at Wakefield High School before being moved to Kenmore.

School officials said Salvadorans, the largest group of immigrants in the
region, are entering area schools at a slightly slower pace now that the civil
war in that country has ended.

They said other groups, especially Eastern Europeans, have increased
significantly in recent months, leaving school officials scrambling to find
translators of such languages as Polish, Ukrainian and Czech.

"There is an increase in students from Europe, especially from the [former]
Soviet Union," said Alberto Reluzco, director of Montgomery County's intake
center.

Reluzco said school officials often rely on family members, friends and
community service agencies when no one on their staffs can translate.

Immigrants often hear about the centers through word-of-mouth. In some areas,
such as Fairfax, public service announcements paid for by the county help
publicize the centers.

School officials said immigrants frequently have to be told about items their
children need to attend classes because many never attended school in their
native countries.

"These people are really coming into a new world," said Elena Izquierdo, who
manages the foreign student intake process for the D.C. public schools. Among
the concepts immigrant parents must decipher, Izquierdo said, are homeroom,
library cards and free lunch applications, "things that [U.S. parents] all take
for granted."

Parents said the transition to U.S. schools is eased immeasurably by the center.
Within a few minutes of arriving at the Arlington center, for example, Carmen
Garcia was reassured to discover that registering her 9-year-old son Marco in a
fourth-grade class would be easier than anticipated.

"In my country I would go directly to the school," said Garcia, an immigrant
from Bolivia who speaks no English. At the intake center, where workers speak a
dozen languages, Garcia said, "I don't worry about being understood or not
understanding."

Enrolling in school "is complicated when someone does not speak Spanish," said
Jose Diaz, 37, whose 19-year-old wife, Angela, finished ninth grade in their
native El Salvador and now wants to continue her education in Arlington.
Providing the language support "is a good way to make sure [immigrants] go back
to school," he said.

Martha Pizarro, director of Arlington's center, said the five intake workers
there see about 20 families each day. They expected to process 1,500 students
before the summer ended, interviewing them in such languages as Lao, Thai,
Spanish, Vietnamese and Khmer, she said.

Officials in other jurisdictions said they too are busier than ever. School
officials in Prince George's County said they expect to process 2,400 students
at their International Students Center this year, while Montgomery County school
officials said they expect to enroll about 4,500 foreign students.

One of the reasons the intake process works well is because the process is
mutually beneficial, school officials said.

"Not everybody is prepared to deal with people from other countries," said
Pizarro, who said all of her workers, many of them immigrants, have a genuine
interest in learning about other cultures.

Over the years, Pizarro said, "we have come to know their cultures and we
understand them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              202 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 24, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Program for Immigrants Wins Ford Foundation Grant

Bobby Kaplow, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V1

LENGTH: 443 words


Arlington County's Bilingual Outreach Program has been awarded a $ 100,000 grant
as one of 10 winners of the Ford Foundation's 1992 Innovations in State and
Local Government Awards.

The outreach program helps immigrants adjust to life in the United States by
giving them help with social services.

In contrast to other outreach efforts, which send social workers into homes and
community facilities, Arlington's program establishes permanent on-site service
centers.

Targeting six large low-income apartment complexes, the program offers a variety
of classes, individual and group counseling, financial planning and other free
services to newly arrived immigrant families.

The program has served more than 12,000 people since its inception in 1982.

"We were pretty thrilled, very ecstatic. It's about the highest honor a local
government can attain," said Timothy Owens, developmental specialist for the
county's Parks, Recreation and Community Resources Department.

"We knew there were going to be about 2,000 entries and I didn't think we had a
chance," Owens said.

The program's 1992 budget of $ 182,000 goes primarily to pay six bilingual
outreach workers.

Space at the apartment complexes is donated by the landlords, and volunteers
teach many of the classes.

In a period when government budgets increasingly are being tightened, the $
100,000 prize will allow the Arlington program to expand.

The county is planning to use the award money to establish a Neighborhood
Partnership Fund for community projects.

Under the program, local groups can apply for funding for community projects,
such as gardens, playgrounds and national day celebrations.

However, each application must involve people with a diversity of ethnic
backgrounds working together on the project.

The program is designed to allow people from different backgrounds an
opportunity to become familiar with one another by bringing them together on a
common project.

The Ford Foundation "challenges you to expand the existing program by doing
something different, even if [the existing program] has been successful," Owens
said.

The Neighborhood Partnership Fund "totally came to life because of [the Ford
grant] and it's going to have a positive effect at the neighborhood level," he
said.

The award program is administered by the John F. Kennedy School of Government at
Harvard University as a way to recognize government programs that are creative
and effective in addressing social problems at the state and local levels.

Each program is evaluated on its novelty, effectiveness and value, as well as to
what degree it can be copied by other jurisdictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              203 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 24, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

A River of Green Flows to Salvador;
Cash Transfers Are a Lifeline, A Duty for Area Immigrants

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1484 words


On Saturdays the lines at the money transfer businesses -- in Adams-Morgan, on
Leesburg Pike, in Arlandria -- sometimes stretch out the doors and even down the
stairs, a constant flow of mostly Salvadoran immigrants whose dollars are about
to make the trip south to villages 3,000 miles away.

The men and women who spent the week working as janitors and cooks, domestics
and laborers, are supporting their families, setting up businesses, buying land
or -- in the case of Jose Pablo Velasco, a cook in an Alexandria restaurant --
building a three-story house in a region where status is often measured by the
height of one's home.

Such payments account for as much as half of an immigrant's weekly salary,
according to one social anthropologist who has studied the new Central American
migration, and although most of the workers earn low wages, the sum entering El
Salvador is staggering.

In the District, just one Salvadoran money transfer business on Columbia Road NW
sent more than $ 3 million in the first six months of this year, a sum that
amounts to about $ 20,300 in cash each day. Although the company, called
Corfinge, serves Central and South America, officials estimate that almost all
the money is sent to El Salvador by the area's Salvadoran population, which --
including illegal immigrants -- is estimated at 150,000.

The phenomenon is not new. Salvadorans have been sending money back since the
1970s, but as their numbers have increased, so has their impact.

The dollars end up in towns such as La Union and San Miguel, in the eastern
provinces of El Salvador, where most of the Salvadorans who emigrated to
Washington in the last four years have relatives. In an area where unemployment
is high and the monthly wage is about $ 80, the hard U.S. currency is now an
integral part of the local economy, conveying security and even status on some
families.

"This has a tremendous impact on many families here," Luis Molina, mayor of La
Union, said in a telephone interview last week. Molina estimated that as many as
40,000 residents of La Union and the surrounding countryside have emigrated to
the United States and regularly contribute to the region, which like the rest of
the country is struggling to recover from the civil war.

Corfinge, considered a major player because it is owned by Banco Cuscatlan of El
Salvador, has an office in La Union and is just one option. Giant Express, a
courier service also owned by Salvadorans, has six offices in the Washington
area, and on any given day dozens of money orders are bought and expressed, even
to remote rural areas. On a Thursday afternoon at the Falls Church branch, $
1,300 in money orders was sold in 20 minutes.

Augmented by corporate giants such as American Express and even mom-and-pop
operations -- local Salvadorans say there are cash cowboys who make overland
trips and charge $ 5 for each $ 100 delivered -- this network transfers hundreds
of millions of dollars annually.

The Salvadoran central bank estimated that $ 920 million in hard currency
entered the country in 1991 -- a year in which capital also was repatriated as a
result of the peace accord -- and Corfinge officials in New York said the
company's share of that was 20 percent. (As a comparison, U.S. aid to El
Salvador was $ 220 million in fiscal 1992.)

Just how much currency is sent by immigrants in this country is hard to assess,
in part because many of the money transfer businesses are not regulated by
federal or local agencies. Corfinge, for example, requires no license or permit
in the District -- a situation that may soon change.

D.C. banking officials are drafting regulations to cover these businesses, a
move prompted by the failure of Latin Investment Corp., an uninsured storefront
bank that bilked thousands of Salvadoran depositors. Banking examiners,
stressing that they found no problem with Corfinge, said they are in the process
of reaching a "memorandum of understanding" with the company. They declined to
provide details.

But the company submits quarterly reports to New York state banking regulators
and its Washington area figures support the mostly anecdotal claim that local
Salvadorans routinely send large sums back to their country. In the first six
months of this year, Corfinge reported 5,718 transactions totaling more than $ 3
million -- an average of $ 539 for each transaction at the Columbia Road office.

Roberto Blanco, Corfinge's director in the District, said the number of
transfers has increased every year since the branch opened in 1989. Most of the
people send from $ 300 to $ 500 -- large sums are extremely rare -- and the
company now has 17 agents who operate throughout the metropolitan area.

"The relation between families in the U.S. and families at home is like a
lifeline," said Isaac Lasky, a Mexican American who is vice president of
American Express MoneyGram and Money Orders International, based in Englewood,
Colo. "It's almost a religious duty to send a little or a lot, as much as they
can."

'The Sojourner'

The shoe repair shop in the Salvadoran town of Sensuntepeque was built on suds
-- soap suds. Jose Pablo Velasco said his job as a dishwasher at a Greek
restaurant in Alexandria produced enough, over time, to open the shop. Named
after his sister's daughter, Keiri, the store is producing an income.

Now, eight years after he arrived here, Velasco is financing construction of the
three-story house he hopes to occupy in El Salvador one day. Each week he visits
the Giant Express office in Arlandria -- a walk-up store next to a Pentecostal
church and a Spanish-language video shop -- and transfers $ 200 or $ 300.

Single and 30, Velasco is what social anthropologists call a "sojourner," a new
immigrant whose sights are set on returning home with far better prospects than
when he left. The yearning has been tapped by entrepreneurs who sell real estate
in El Salvador to customers here and in New York, Los Angeles and Houston, all
cities with significant Salvadoran populations.

"That is the struggle of all the people who come here -- to do something,"
Velasco said. "We come here to see if we can build something, at the very least
a house."

Experts on migration patterns say Velasco's experiences are in line with this
country's long history of immigrant laborers. Eastern European Jews in the 19th
century sent money home, and the Italian workers who helped build New York City
subways assumed they would return and tended to invest back home.

"It is a recurring pattern, and a perfectly understandable pattern, of capital
moving across national lines," said Alan Kraut, a professor at American
University and author of "The Huddled Masses: The Immigrant in American Society,
1880-1921.

Those who have studied Central American immigrants outside Mexico, a relatively
new field, say Velasco probably represents only about 20 percent of the cases.
Most Salvadorans are sending money for what Nestor Rodriguez, a professor at the
University of Houston, calls "household necessities" to maintain what often are
extended families.

At the Falls Church office of Giant Express recently, where the blue and white
Salvadoran flag hangs on the wall, day construction workers said a job shortage
has limited their payments to $ 50 every few weeks.

Among those who were sending money were Mirna Cruz and her husband, Manuel
Mejia, who moved from Los Angeles three months ago because there was no work for
him there.

He is still unemployed, but Cruz found a part-time job at a McDonald's that pays
$ 150 every two weeks.

Cruz has a mother and a 15-year-old child she supports in La Union. At Giant
that day, she was sending a $ 50 money order despite financial hardship that is
typical of newer immigrants.

Most of the Salvadorans in the area arrived between 1987 and 1990.

"I think we are always surprised that people who are making so little money
manage to send some back," said Leo Chavez, a social anthropologist at the
University of California at Irvine.

Chavez has studied the Salvadoran and Mexican communities in Southern
California, and he estimates that the new immigrants send half of their income
back home.

Remittances in general tend to decrease as immigrants become more rooted, but
that has been a slow process for Salvadorans. Many are here illegally or on work
permits that expire next June, and some of the money they send back is intended
as a "safety net" in case they are deported, Chavez said.

As a source of cheap labor here and a source of funds for their families at
home, Salvadorans and other Central American immigrants have a significant
impact here and abroad.

"It is a win-win situation. Here we get a laborer we didn't produce. They sort
of come to our doorstep, grown and ready to work," said Chavez. "The U.S. is, in
a sense, sending dollars to a foreign country without any cost. It's free
foreign policy."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOSE PABLO VELASCO, A COOK IN AN ALEXANDRIA RESTAURANT, IS
SENDING MONEY BACK HOME TO BUILD A THREE-STORY HOUSE. JAMES A. PARCELL

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS, MARYLAND NEWS, DC NEWS, LIST

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              204 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 27, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Some Marine Irony in the Adriatic;
Head of Seaborne 'Presence Mission' Is Grandson of Serbian Immigrants

Barton Gellman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A26

LENGTH: 1026 words

DATELINE: ABOARD USS IWO JIMA


About three months ago, as Col. George M. Karamarkovich worked in his floating
command center, a secure red phone squawked above his desk with this
attention-grabbing announcement: " 'Fast Charger' wants to talk to you."

Karamarkovich, who commands 2,200 Marines afloat in five amphibious ships, had
been half expecting the call. He did not welcome it.

Fast Charger -- Vice Adm. William A. Owens, then commander of the U.S. Sixth
Fleet -- ordered Karamarkovich into the Adriatic Sea to stand watch off the
coast of the former republics of Yugoslavia. The "presence mission," or what
used to be called gunboat diplomacy, accentuated Washington's displeasure with
the Serb conquest of Bosnia-Hercegovina and the "ethnic cleansing" of Muslims
and Croats.

To all the many ironies of that fratricidal war, add another: The Marine sent in
to signal the Serbs -- and perhaps, if things grow worse, to do something more
-- is the grandson of Serbian immigrants to America.

Karamarkovich, 50, a helicopter pilot, grew up in a working-class Serbian
community in Beaver County, Pa. At Hopewell High School in Aliquippa, he
celebrated Christmas in January in the Orthodox fashion, with barbecued pig and
lamb. He speaks with admiration, as a military man, of Serbian martial
traditions: tenacity in battle, sheer stubbornness of historical memory.

"Serbs still celebrate the Battle of Kosovo," he said, referring to the Ottoman
conquest of Serbia in 1389. "Only country I ever heard of that celebrates a
battle they lost."

In nearly three hours of conversation aboard this amphibious assault ship, 30
miles or so off the Balkan coast, Karamarkovich hinted that, like the great
majority of U.S. officers interviewed in recent months, he is personally averse
to intervention there. "I don't think, as an American, you would think America
would get involved in Yugoslavia," he said.

Karamarkovich also acknowledged, indirectly, the discomfort of his position in
the Adriatic, asking a visitor to imagine how it would feel "if America sided
with the other side" in a conflict involving the visitor's ethnic group.

Abruptly, he changed tack.

"That's the position I'm in, but I will tell you I will not bat an eyelash," he
said. "I will take the force and do what I am called upon to do."

The nerve center of the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit is in Karamarkovich's
conference room, its long table covered for no good tactical reason in
camouflage cloth.

Among the very few personal touches here is a block of wood carved with the
Marine motto, "Semper Fi." Someone has pounded a bayonet deep into the wood. It
is a goodbye present, Karamarkovich said, from the "snake eaters" at the Basic
School at Quantico, where he supervised "23 brutal weeks of training" for new
second lieutenants.

Karamarkovich presides in olive-drab shirtsleeves over a daily 8 a.m. staff
meeting, where Maj. Harry Stickley, his chief intelligence officer, updates
"order of battle" estimates along key roads in Bosnia. The tactical map uses red
for Serbian forces and black for everyone else.

The warring militias in Bosnia, according to U.S. intelligence estimates,
include about 35,000 Bosnian Serb irregulars with the bulk of the heavy
artillery, 35,000 Bosnian Croats, 15,000 troops from the republic of Croatia,
and 50,000 lightly armed Muslim defenders.

The Marines here offer 23 helicopters and a battalion landing team of about
1,300 men. It is a highly trained force, but it is dwarfed by the carnage to its
east.

The what-if list is endless. What if Karamarkovich is asked to protect a ground
convoy? To help clear surface-to-air missiles out of the flight corridor used by
international relief planes? To come to the rescue of an embattled United
Nations peace-keeping force?

"What would happen if it all went to hell? How would they use the Marines?"
Karamarkovich said. "I spend a lot of time trying to anticipate the ways they
might try to use me, and I would be surprised if they think of any way to use me
that I haven't thought of."

It was the blindest coincidence that a Serbian American had command when the
first Marine force was sent to the Balkan coast. For most of his career and in
most of his assignments, Karamarkovich's name has been just another ethnic
unpronounceable. He goes by "Butch" or "K-12" among his peers; subordinates
sometimes abridge him to "Colonel K."

Here in the Adriatic Sea, Karamarkovich has not advertised his ethnicity. Rear
Adm. Philip A. Dur, who commands the aircraft carrier USS Saratoga's battle
group and works closely with Karamarkovich, professed to believe his colleague's
name was Polish.

Karamarkovich and Staff Sgt. Marijan Karaban, an ethnic Croat who serves on his
intelligence staff, have talked of starting rumors that they are Russian.

But no one who saw the colonel's traveling bookshelf would be deceived. "The
Rape of Serbia," by Michael Lees, stands side by side with "Patriot or Traitor,"
a biography of World War II Serbian Chetnik leader Draja Mihailovich.

"The Croats and the Serbs haven't got along for a long time, and you know the
Muslims are unpopular," Karamarkovich said. "You go in for a long time and beat
the hell out of somebody, and then get thrown out and leave people behind, and
you're not going to be popular. If you just read the books from that time you
realize what a snake pit this is."

One more book stands out from the small shelf above the colonel's bed. It is a
well-worn copy of James H. Webb Jr.'s 1991 novel, "Something to Die For."
Karamarkovich does not want to talk about it.

Webb, who was Navy secretary under President Ronald Reagan, spins a complex tale
of Pentagon and congressional maneuvering around the periphery of a foreign
civil war. The book's central figure is Col. Bill Fogarty, commander of a Marine
Expeditionary Unit much like Karamarkovich's.

On page 277, Fogarty is ordered into combat against a much larger force, for a
cause about which he is profoundly skeptical. On page 333, Fogarty is struck
down by artillery. Four pages later, fighting off morphine and trying to lead a
counterattack, Karamarkovich's fictional brother in arms is dead.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GEORGE M. KARAMARKOVICH.

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              205 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 5, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

Somalis, Fearing Return, Await Fate in Eastern Shore Jail

Eugene L. Meyer, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D3

LENGTH: 834 words


Jama Farah Mahamed's long stay in the Wicomico County Jail on Maryland's Eastern
Shore may be almost over. After nearly 10 months there, the Somali man could
soon be deported.

Farhia Mohamed Saied still hopes for asylum.

But she too is being held at the jail while the two children she hasn't seen
since February stay with an uncle in Falls Church.

Unlike many of their countrymen back home, both have been reasonably well fed.
But the two Somalis are in effect prisoners of war, refugees from the civil
strife and famine ravaging their East African homeland.

Both have relatives residing legally in the United States. But their decision to
fly to Baltimore-Washington International Airport without proper passports or
visas has left them confined with common criminals.

"They're not exactly rampant criminals," said John O'Malley, assistant director
for detention and deportation for the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
Baltimore district.

But both tried to enter the country illegally after failing to gain asylum
elsewhere, he said. "You can't go country-shopping," O'Malley said.

The law requires people seeking asylum to prove a well-founded fear of
persecution because of race, nationality, religion, membership in a particular
social group or political opinion.

Mahamed and Saied, interviewed at an immigration office on the outskirts of
Baltimore, contend they have special cause to fear persecution, and possibly
death, in Somalia.

Saied, 26, said she is in danger because of her husband's work for the United
Nations, which some Somali clans view as taking sides in the battles, and the
political activity of some members of her husband's family.

Mahamed, also 26, said he cannot return to Somalia because of his pacifism and
membership in the clan of deposed dictator Siad Barre.

But the U.S. government says they are subject only to the "random violence" that
goes with a war of clan against clan.

Saied's appeal is pending. Mahamed's was rejected Sept 9. "While we are
cognizant of the turmoil and apparent state of anarchy in Somalia," the appeals
panel wrote, " . . . the harm resulting from civil war or general strife in a
country does not constitute persecution."

Because the U.S. Embassy in Somalia is closed, Saied and Mahamed won't be sent
there if they are deported. Instead, they will be returned to their last
stopping place.

For Mahamad, it was Sweden, where he was held in custody as an illegal
immigrant. Saied came to the United States from Egypt, which refused her asylum.

Saied's attorney said her return to Egypt would almost certainly mean her
deportation to Somalia. Immigration officials also say that Saied could join her
husband in Kenya. Mahamed's fate in Sweden is uncertain.

On Sept. 25, Mahamed's attorneys obtained a stay of the deportation from the INS
and a federal judge until they can argue his case in court. A hearing is
scheduled for today in Baltimore.

Saied and Mahamed are among 70 illegal immigrants who make up about a fifth of
the population at the Wicomico jail. Currently, there is one other Somali there,
newly arrived.

Some of the refugees, Saied and Mahamed among them, face a legal Catch-22: The
U.S. government has temporarily allowed Somalis who entered the country
illegally before Sept. 16, 1991, to stay. Both Saied and Mahamed arrived later.

Saied's situation is complicated because her 5-year-old son is a U.S. citizen,
born here while her husband was studying for a graduate degree in California.
Theoretically, her attorneys say, she could be deported with her Somali-born
daughter, while her son remains here.

"The rest of the family is all over the place -- Italy, London, Turkey, Cairo,
some in Somalia," said Ahmed Hassan, a brother-in-law who lives in Beltsville.
"We actually lost one brother, two sisters-in-law, and a half a dozen first
cousins. The normal Somali situation, nothing out of the ordinary."

While jailing her, the government allowed Saied's children to live with a
relative in Falls Church. But she hasn't seen them because the jail does not
permit young children to visit inmates. Saied said she speaks to them on the
phone and keeps their pictures in the cell she shares with an American drug
offender.

Saied and Mahamed both left spouses in Africa. Neither knows their precise
whereabouts or whether they are safe.

Mahamed said he left his wife with her parents in Somalia because "there was not
enough money to both go" and because he was at greater risk. Mahamed said that
his father-in-law gave him money to flee and that it was his intention "to
continue my education, to work, to send money" home to her.

"I can't tell now whether she lives or dies," Mahamed said. "I think about too
much . . . my future . . . my family. I pray every time."

To pass the time, he reads religious works. Saied reads spy and romance novels.

Saied said she does not go out of her way to befriend inmates. "I'd like to live
with innocent people in the United States," she said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FARHIA SAIED, LEFT, AND JAMA MAHAMED FEAR PERSECUTION IF THEY
RETURN TO SOMALIA.(THIS PHOTO APPEARED IN THE EARLY EDITION.), TOM ALLEN

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              206 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 14, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

Economics Professor Wins Nobel;
Chicago's Becker Cited For 'Human' Analysis

Steven Mufson, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; PAGE F1

LENGTH: 734 words


University of Chicago professor Gary S. Becker, who has applied economics to
issues of everyday life ranging from marriage to crime, from immigration to
college athletics, won the 1992 Nobel Economics Prize yesterday.

In awarding Becker the $ 1.2 million prize, the Swedish Academy of Sciences said
he had "extended the sphere of economic analysis to new areas of human behavior
and relations."

Becker, 61, is a free-market philosopher perhaps best known to Americans as a
columnist for Business Week magazine, where his commentary has appeared monthly
since 1985.

He has used economics to explore widely diverse topics. His books include "The
Economics of Racial Discrimination," which showed that race and sex
discrimination economically hurts perpetrators as well as victims, and "A
Treatise of the Family," which argued that divorce rates depend on how much
wives or husbands can offer their mates in financial and other inducements to
remain married.

In his columns, he has suggested scrapping the minimum wage to encourage firms
to hire more of the unemployed; imposing capital punishment and stiffer jail
sentences to discourage crime; and charging immigrants $ 50,000 each to ensure
that welfare rolls will not be swollen by newcomers unable to pay their own way.

Michael J. Boskin, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers,
said Becker's research "was fundamental and opened up doors not only for himself
but for the entire profession."

Lawrence Summers, chief economist of the World Bank, hailed the award as a
"great choice" and one long overdue. "He greatly expanded the limits of what
economics can accomplish," Summers said.

"Becker was out to discover how society works," Karl Goran Maler, a member of
the Swedish academy committee, told Reuter. "Becker broke down the traditional
concepts of what a family actually does. A family produces what it needs, and
one should look at a family as a kind of factory."

"He built upon the hypothesis that humans act rationally and brought it into
other realms. This is what was new at the time," Maler said.

Summers said Becker "was the first person to bring economics to the study of
discrimination and he made the point that it's costly to discriminate. He was
the first to study the training of workers as capital investments.

"He was the first to apply economic analysis to decisions about whether to
commit crime, whether to have kids, whether to get married, whether to get
divorced, and, most recently, to the problem of drug addiction," Summers said.
"In each of these, what he's done is show economists that their tools can be
applied in settings where the economic forces don't seem to be most central."

Examples abound in Becker's Business Week column, where he has compared
affirmative action to crop subsidies, advocated competition in schools, given
economic arguments for a volunteer army and urged colleges to pay athletes. "An
association of companies that limits payments to employees and punishes
violators would usually be considered a labor-market cartel," Becker said in a
1985 column on college athletes. "Why should the viability of athletic programs
depend on what amounts to subsidies from athletes rather than on such resources
as larger gifts from alumni, higher tuition from students, bigger subsidies from
taxpayers or higher ticket prices for spectators?"

In a 1987 column, he advocated the legalization of drugs, although he would
discourage their use through excise taxes and punishments, for example, if they
are used while engaging in activities such as driving. He said competition
between legitimate companies would reduce the monopoly power of pushers, cut
down on poisoning from defective drugs, and stem the spread of AIDS from the
illicit use of dirty needles.

Becker is a native of Pottsville, Pa. He holds degrees from Princeton University
and Chicago. He is one of a long line of economists to win recognition at the
University of Chicago, beginning with Milton Friedman, who won the Nobel for
economics in 1976 and is now associated with Stanford University.

Over the years, 63 Nobel laureates, 15 in economics, have been associated with
the University of Chicago, more than any other academic institution.

"As Milton Friedman was to macroeconomics, Gary Becker is to microeconomics,"
said Summers. "Becker has been a pillar of the Chicago school of economics."



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, MEDAL WINNERS; A DECADE OF AWARDS IN ECONOMICS, TOBEY
538976288

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              207 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 31, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

A Refugee's Last Refuge;
D.C. Legal Clinic Battles for Immigrants

Gabriel Escobar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 886 words


The crises that walk into Ayuda Inc.'s legal clinic go through triage upstairs,
in a warren of windowless rooms and cubicles, but the nerve center this night is
the front desk one floor below, where Felix Toledo's tea has long since gone
cold.

There is little time, and every case is a personal emergency. A former chauffeur
for the Nigerian Embassy faces deportation; the Guatemalan relives his 30 cold
nights in jail; the Nicaraguan recalls the fearful flight from her homeland, and
the Salvadoran wants to reunite his scattered family.

Volunteers cloistered in the cubicles with these immigrants write down the facts
and then seek out Toledo, who on this Wednesday is both receptionist and
resident lawyer. "Dig deeper," Toledo counsels the volunteer trying to sort out
a woman's plea for political asylum, like most others a byzantine tale of
political intrigue, hounded relatives and illegal border crossings.

These personal dramas are played out in an office that looks like a tidy garage
sale, a ragtag place full of donated furniture and circuitous hallways. The
first-floor operation has spread into what was once the subterranean hallway of
the building on Columbia Road NW, and the result is a confusion of odd spaces.
Yvonne Vega, the executive director, has one of the few offices with a window --
a tiny opening that faces a brick wall -- and her endless search for new
quarters has one requirement: "If it's better than this, I'll take it."

Last year 10,814 people from the District, Virginia and Maryland appealed for
help of one sort or another, making Ayuda -- Spanish for aid or help -- the
area's principal nonprofit legal agency and often the last refuge for refugees.
Its annual budget is $ 750,000 -- with most of the money coming from the United
Way and other agencies -- but the growing caseload has strained finances.

Ayuda added a domestic violence unit in 1986, and Vega decided a year ago to put
a lawyer on duty every morning to handle the walk-in traffic. Those who can
afford it now are asked to pay $ 10 for the walk-in clinic. Some pay a maximum
fee of $ 150 for a case, considerably less than the $ 700 to $ 1,000 charged by
private lawyers.

Although the staff pursues only the most critical cases, that still means 179
clients just for Toledo, one of Ayuda's eight full-time lawyers. The workload is
as heavy as the pay is light. Starting salary is in the low twenties, slightly
less than what a Central American immigrant in the region makes working two
full-time jobs.

A Puerto Rican who got his law degree at night from Georgetown, Toledo, 40,
joined Ayuda six years ago, when the war in El Salvador was sending waves of
people north. Ayuda's immigration section has since handled thousands of
applications for political asylum and work permits for Salvadorans and
Guatemalans.

That exposure has taught Toledo how to interview Central Americans who, despite
the urgent need to resolve their problems, are reticent when it comes to
providing specific information. Details are crucial because applicants for
asylum must prove that they have been persecuted, but the habit of hiding from
authorities who might send them home makes them cautious.

Toledo says many minimize what happened to them. Instead of saying they received
death threats, for example, they will say someone "said something" to them.
"They are careful to an extreme. They are conditioned to protect themselves, to
be sparing, reserved," Toledo says.

On this Wednesday, the only night the walk-in legal clinic is open, the
30-year-old Guatemalan upstairs proves Toledo's point. The man, now a worker in
a restaurant kitchen, has described his month-long detention by the Guatemalan
police to Peter Walter, one of about 100 volunteers who do intake interviews
regularly.

As in most cases, the man's story is dramatic. He says he was shot at while
standing on a corner with several other men. The nights in jail were cold. There
was only one meal. There were corpses of inmates on the road back to the
capital, Guatemala City. "I don't know if it was the police who did it," he says
in Spanish. It is not enough to make an asylum case, and Walter presses.

"Is there anything else you want to tell me?" he asks in Spanish.

"I have a brother who was persecuted by the police," the man volunteers. He has
few specifics, but if the family has been targeted, sometimes that is enough to
start the process. Walter tells him that lawyers will review his case and let
him know later.

It's the same with the others. The Nigerian has been fired from the embassy and
now confesses that he is AWOL from his country's army, where the new regime is
unfriendly to the military. The Nicaraguan woman doesn't know she was supposed
to appear at deportation hearings, because the U.S. government was sending
notices to the wrong address. "It seems like it's a clerical error, and because
of that she's losing out," says volunteer Tim Ney, a paralegal at Holland &
Hart.

There have been 11 cases tonight, a light turnout by the clinic's standard. For
most, the stakes are high. They will gain legal status or face a choice between
life as an illegal immigrant or deportation and an uncertain future at home.

"Since I've been here, there has been one emergency after another," Toledo says.
"Crisis after crisis."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              208 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 1, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. Detains Malaysian Tour Group

ns

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10; AROUND THE REGION

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The federal government has detained all 24 members of a tour group from Malaysia
while it determines if their leader was trying to smuggle two of them into the
United States.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agents detained the two dozen tourists
and group leader Chee Kheong Choong when they arrived at Logan International
Airport on Oct. 21 from Paris.

The government has asked that some of the tour group members be held as material
witnesses against Choong, and defense lawyers have requested that the rest be
held to testify in Choong's behalf.

Choong has been charged with trying to smuggle two group members, Chee Men Lee
and Lee Ling Ng, into the United States. His detention hearing is to continue
Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              209 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 6, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Judge Denies Asylum To Somali War Refugee;
Man Held in Md. Jail Faces Deportation

Paul W. Valentine, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C5

LENGTH: 500 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Nov. 5


A federal judge has upheld an order denying political asylum to a refugee of
war-torn Somalia, paving the way for the refugee's deportation after being held
in a Maryland jail for nearly a year.

U.S. District Judge Benson E. Legg said in an order issued Tuesday that although
24-year-old Jama Farah Mahamed was a victim of Somalia's civil war, he had not
proved he was "singled out for persecution," the basis on which political asylum
can be granted.

Legg said he also did not believe all of Mahamed's claims.

Mahamed's "plight is, unfortunately, similar to that of many, if not all,
Somalians," Legg wrote in a 12-page opinion, upholding the Board of Immigration
Appeals.

Michele R. Pistone, Mahamed's attorney, said she will probably not appeal the
case. Mahamed, who is being held in the Wicomico County Detention Center in
Salisbury, will likely be deported in the next few weeks, she said.

Because his case has advanced further than those of other Somalis seeking
asylum, Pistone said, it sets a precedent that will escalate deportation of
Somalis.

Pistone estimated there are more than 500 Somalis, most in the New York area,
who have applied for asylum, and dozens who are "in litigation" with immigration
authorities.

The United States "is forcing these people back to the fighting" in Somalia, she
said. "They have no safe haven."

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
the Mahamed case does not presage large-scale deportations because "all cases
are different and must be considered individually."

In addition, he said, the U.S. granted "temporary protected status" to most
Somalis living in the United States before Sept. 16, 1991, meaning they can
remain here until at least Sept. 17, 1993.

Mahamed, like many other Somalis, arrived after September 1991, and has no such
protection. Mahamed fled his east African nation in October 1991, going first to
neighboring Kenya and then to Sweden before arriving at Baltimore-Washington
International Airport on Dec. 6 without a passport.

After questioning him, immigration authorities ordered him deported but Mahamed
initiated a series of appeals that has kept him on U.S. soil, incarcerated in
the Wicomico County jail in a special holding facility for potential deportees.
At least one other Somali is jailed there.

Mahamed claimed he was singled out for persecution because he belonged to the
same clan as former Somali president Mohamed Siad Barre, who was overthrown by
rebels in January 1991.

Mahamed said in court papers that he fled after his father was slain by rebel
militia and he has a "well-founded fear of persecution" if he returns.

In his ruling, Judge Legg noted that Mahamed remained in Somalia for 10 months
after his father was killed, undercutting his claim of fearing persecution.
Also, he said, "every clan and social group" in Somalia's civil war is the
"object of murderous intentions" and Mahamed failed to show that he or his group
was singled out.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JAMA FARAH MAHAMED

TYPE: MARYLAND NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              210 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 16, 1992, Monday, Final Edition

After Immigration, An Unexpected Fear;
New Jersey's Indian Community Is Terrorized by Racial Violence

Al Kamen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1632 words

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J.


In the Middlesex County telephone book, there are nearly twice as many people
named Patel as there are named Jones.

Patel is a common Indian name -- and evidence of the fast-growing population
that has made a striking difference in northern New Jersey. For years virtually
unnoticed in the Asian immigrant stream to this country, Indians have become the
fastest-growing immigrant group in the state, most concentrated in the counties
of Hudson, Bergen and Middlesex.

With the growth -- and the change in the kind of Indians who are coming to this
country -- has come increasing racial strife and violence.

The 1980 census found that of the 400,000 Indians in this country, an
extraordinary 11 percent of the men were physicians and 17 percent were
engineers, architects or surveyors. Eight percent of the women were physicians
and 7 percent were nurses.

"When I first came here 30 years ago we were a glorified minority group," said
Kanak Dutta, a former teacher and a Democratic activist in Somerset County.
"When we were a very small community [with so many] doctors and engineers and
other professionals, I never saw any kind of hatred."

"We ran the inner-city hospitals," said Lilith Masson, a soft-spoken
gynecologist and community activist in Jersey City who came to this country 26
years ago. "Whites fled the hospitals in the inner cities" during the 1960s, she
said, and it seemed "you never saw a white face around."

But the first wave of Indian professionals is now being supplanted by their
siblings, who often are less educated and not as proficient in English, said
Mahdulika Kandhalewal, a historian in the Asian-American Center at Queens
College. The new, larger wave, which doubled the Indian population to 815,000 in
the 1990 census, fits much more with the traditional immigrant profile of
shopkeepers, restaurant owners, newsstand operators, cabdrivers, tradespeople
and laborers, she said. Indians, long involved in the motel industry, also are
moving into the diamond industry in Manhattan.

As the Indian community has grown, hostility has increased as well. The
occasional insults have turned to violence like that which erupted five years
ago in Hudson County, N.J., an immigrant way station since the Dutch colonized
New York and home now to more than 11,000 Indians.

A Jersey City gang calling itself "The Dotbusters" -- named for the dot, or
bindi, that Indian women often wear on the forehead as a sign of marital
fidelity -- wrote a letter published in a local newspaper saying the group would
"go to any extreme" to drive Indians from Jersey City. The next day a man was
beaten in his home, apparently after his name had been picked out of a telephone
book.

The following month a young Indian doctor was beaten unconscious and a month
later a man was beaten to death by a group of teenagers. Other Indians reported
being beaten.

These incidents terrorized the Indian community. There was "such a hysteria that
parents would not send kids to school and women would not put bindis on and
stopped wearing saris," Masson said. "People were putting up homes for sale."

Masson and other leaders organized a series of protests to demand attention and
more police protection. Several youths were convicted for some of the beatings,
and indictments were handed up in September against three men -- one of whom has
become a Hudson County police officer -- in the doctor's beating. County
officials say "The Dotbusters" gang no longer exists.

Even so, "the violence worked," said Himanshu Shukla, a business consultant and
community activist. "People moved out, and others thinking of moving here from
the city moved elsewhere." Since then the violence has diminished and the Indian
population has begun to grow again.

The attacks had one positive result, Shukla said. "It energized the Indian
community to understand the terms of living in America . . . and to understand
that discrimination is a fact of life here." Indians occasionally note the irony
of having swastikas painted on buildings and stop signs -- a swastika is an
ancient Hindu religious symbol denoting the eternality of God -- "but we know
what they meant," he said.

"Before, I used to enjoy wearing a sari," Masson said. "Now I don't wear one
anymore," she said, "because people insult you, they spit on you and call you
names."

As the intensity of anti-Indian violence diminished in Jersey City, it increased
about three years ago in Middlesex County -- mainly in the Edison-Iselin area,
about 30 miles from New York City.

Pradip Khotari, a travel agent and leader of the Indian business community in
Iselin, said that after the violence began, "people wouldn't come out at night.
. . . They would bring someone downtown with them at night to take out the
garbage" from their stores "because they were afraid to come alone."

Fear in Middlesex County rose last year when a multi-ethnic, middle-class gang
called "The Lost Boys" brutally attacked a 20-year-old Indian man behind a
convenience store, beating him with baseball bats and sticks.

Late the following night, a five-car caravan of gang members, all in their late
teens or early twenties, drove through Hilltop Estates, a sprawling garden
apartment complex where hundreds of Indian families live, calling on people to
come out of their homes and screaming "dots die" and "we're going to kill you
dotheads," according to Paul Goldenberg, head of the state attorney general's
Office of Bias Crime and Community Relations.

Goldenberg, a former police officer and undercover detective, said that when he
got to the apartment complex a short time later, "People were shaking. They did
not believe this was 20th-century America."

The gang's heritage -- judging from the 15 members eventually arrested on
assault, theft, criminal mischief and insurance fraud charges -- was a cross
section of America: one black; one Jew; several Greeks and Italians; three
Filipinos; one half-Filipino and half-Indian and several Anglos, sources said.
One of those arrested was an auxiliary police officer.

Nor were the gang members poor, like the gangs of "skinhead" youths who
terrorize immigrants in Europe. They were a middle-class "yuppie gang,"
Goldenberg said, with some members driving Porsches and BMWs.  There was
substantial evidence of drug use as well, he said. "We retrieved hundreds of
needles" during the arrests and searches, Goldenberg said, "not for heroin but
for steroids. These kids were weight lifters."

Gang members told him they did it for "a thrill," Goldenberg said, calling it
"one of the most bizarre hate crime cases I ever investigated."

Goldenberg said these and other incidents reflected the tensions arising from
the quick entry of so many Indian businesses into Iselin's run-down commercial
area. "Now these people come in, they are perceived to be different and they are
doing well in hard economic times" in the last few years, when the state's
unemployment rate was rising quickly.

For some of the remaining white businesses in Iselin, the transition has been
difficult.

Ulla Reid, owner of one of the few white-run businesses left in Iselin's
three-block shopping strip, said the Indians' arrival in significant numbers in
the last three years "has been culture shock to them and to us."

Reid, a Danish immigrant who came as a young girl to this country with her
family shortly after World War II, said her restaurant has suffered as Indian
businesses have come to dominate the shopping area.

"Our business dropped 22 percent in the last nine months," Reid said. "Our
customers won't come" to this area to shop now. "There isn't a day that goes by
that someone says, 'I can't believe what's happened to our town.' I hear this
five times a day."

Reid said, "Indians feel they can't trust any whites. I think that's sad. . . .
They do not deal with white people, they only cater to their own people. . . .
They still dress in Indian clothing and stick by themselves."

Echoing an incorrect allegation often made against other immigrant business
owners, Reid said: "A lot of them get SBA [Small Business Administration] loans
tax-free, and people want to know why."

But just down the street from Reid's restaurant, business is booming at the
local Pizza Movers outlet -- home of "Indo-Pak Pizza," a potentially lucrative
product developed by the pizzeria's young owner, Joseph Kisch, who has a
different view of Indian customers.

"It's my contribution to the Indian community," said Kisch, who has a trademark
pending on the recipe. Many Indians are vegetarians, Kisch explained, and of the
standard pizza selections they could choose only a cheese topping on a thick
dough.

Kisch consulted with Indian grocers and worked up a "vegetarian pie" on a
thinner crust. "It's hot and spicy and uses cheese, Indian chile peppers, onions
and a secret sauce," he noted. Now, about 80 percent of his clientele is Indian.

"On the other hand, Kisch said, some white customers "don't order from me
anymore. . . . There is lots of racial tension. There is no mixing."

Masson said she often meets Indians who are reconsidering whether it is worth
staying here, especially as the recession lingers and the economy in India
booms.

But very few will leave, predicted Peter Parikh, a nuclear engineer who now runs
a printing shop in Edison. "Isolated incidents happen, but this is still the
best country to live in," said Parikh, who came to the United States 15 years
ago.

"Everyone thinks they will come with this dream of working for 10 years and
making a lot of money and going back," Parikh said. "But something happens and
now the kids have grown up here and they enter into the web of this culture and
it's over. They may talk about it sometimes, but they don't go back. They can't
go back."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PAINT MARKING FIREBOMBED INDIAN RESTAURANT IN ISELIN, N.J.,
REFERS TO THE DOT MANY HINDU WOMEN WEAR ON THE FOREHEAD. DAYNA SMITH

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              211 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 19, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Arlington English Program Among National Winners;
Mission Includes Preparing Immigrants for Workplace

Bobby Kaplow, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: VIRGINIA WEEKLY; PAGE V3

LENGTH: 744 words


The Arlington Education and Employment Program was formed 17 years ago in
response to the county's influx of Vietnamese refugees. With a small, one-time
grant, the program's initial directive was to teach English to a small group of
refugees and make them self-sufficient in the language in 90 days.

The program has come a long way since then, in both structure and stature.

Now a multifaceted, comprehensive educational program serving about 3,700 adults
a year, it recently was awarded the U.S. secretary of education's Outstanding
Adult Education and Literacy Program Award, one of the highest awards of its
kind in the country.

However, despite the accolades and growth, the program's objective has remained
the same. "Our goal is to not only teach the language, but to teach [the
students] to become good citizens and empower them to take charge of their lives
in their new country," said director Inaam Mansoor.

Given annually to 10 literacy projects from a nationwide pool of entries, the
secretary's award was established in 1985 to recognize local programs designed
for undereducated adults. Each state nominates two programs for the award, then
the U.S. Department of Education selects two finalists from each of its 10
regions. After department officials visit each finalist, a panel of adult
education specialists selects the winners.

The Arlington program will have an open house for businesses and members of the
community from 10:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday at Wilson School, 1601 Wilson Blvd.
The open house will be followed by a ceremony from 3 to 5 p.m. to present the
secretary's award.

"I'm really pleased because it's a nice recognition for the very hard work this
staff does here," said Mansoor, whose staff includes about 50 educators. "It
also provides us with the opportunity to get the word out that the need for
English as a second language and literacy training is great in this area. The
more opportunity we have to get the word out, the more people we can serve."

Initially designed only for refugees, with the majority coming from Southeast
Asia, Ethiopia, Afghanistan and Eastern Europe, the program is now open to any
adult with limited skills in speaking English. About 76 percent of the program's
students are Latino. Twelve percent are Asian, and 12 percent are of other
nationalities.

Organized within the county's Department of Vocational, Career and Adult
Education, the program also offers instruction in workplace and family literacy,
an adult learning center with computer and interactive audio and video
instruction, and teacher training workshops.

The program operates solely through local, state and federal grants, with a
budget of about $ 1 million annually.

"Each year you think that with the changes of the Arlington community, maybe
there will be less [a need for the program]. But the need is consistently
growing, and it will continue to grow," Mansoor said. "We've been serving the
community for 17 years, and the more students we serve, the more we get."

The workplace literacy component, offered through a partnership with the
Arlington and Alexandria schools and chambers of commerce, is designed to allow
students to continue their literacy education in the context of actual
employment.

Many students are enrolled by their employers.

"It's one of those programs that just works. The students get essentially free
language training and they get integrated into the workplace better. They
improve themselves and they get a chance to improve their standing in the
workplace," said Richard Doud, president of the Arlington Chamber of Commerce.

The Workplace Program allows students "to expand their knowledge base. And it
helps us because it's a mechanism for us to provide our employees a chance to
increase their literacy skills," said Karla Leavelle, human resources manager
for the Southland Corp., parent company for 7-Eleven stores. The company has 24
graduates of the program and more than 50 employees currently enrolled.

"It builds a confidence level that allows them to go beyond the workplace. That
is the biggest reward," Leavelle added.

And Mansoor feels the combination of employment and education helps to continue
the learning process.

"The idea is if we can contextualize [learning in the workplace], it will assist
with their immediate needs," Mansoor said. "But it will also show them they can
learn and get them hooked on learning so they will continue learning."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              212 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 4, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Births, Immigration Revise Census View Of 21st Century U.S.

Barbara Vobejda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 888 words


An increase in births among American women coupled with massive immigration will
add more people to the nation's population during the 1990s than any time since
the baby boom decade of the 1950s, the Census Bureau projected in a report
released today.

The new population projections also underscore the nation's rapidly changing
ethnic profile: By the middle of the next century, virtually half of the
population will be made up of blacks, Hispanics, Asians and American Indians and
our terminology of "majority" and "minority" will become meaningless.

The Census Bureau, in revising its projections from those released in the late
1980s, was forced to take into account recent and far-reaching changes in
society: Fertility rates are higher among American women than they were in the
early '80s, illegal immigration remains high and new legislation will allow more
legal immigrants into the country.

Together, these factors led the agency to forecast much higher population growth
over the coming decades than previously assumed.

In the late 1980s, the bureau projected that the population would peak around
2038 and decline to about 300 million by 2050. But the revised figures add
another 80 million to that figure and assume that population will not peak, but
continue to grow into the late 21st century.

"When you look at 80 million more people by 2050, that's quite a bit," said Carl
Haub, a demographer at the Population Reference Bureau. "That's not small
change."

The bureau, which for the first time broke out population changes by race and
ethnic group, projects that the number of Hispanics will surpass that of blacks
in two to three decades. And by the middle of the next century, the number of
Hispanics will nearly quadruple to 81 million, or more than a fifth of the
population.

Asians, including Pacific Islanders, will remain the fastest growing racial
group, increasing from their current number of 9 million to 41 million by 2050.
Over the same period, the number of black Americans will nearly double to 62
million, or 16 percent of the population.

And non-Hispanic whites will grow slowly in number but decrease rapidly as a
fraction of the population, from three quarters now to just about half in the
mid-21st century.

"We will have a much smaller proportion who are of European descent and what we
will be calling majority or minority at that point is anybody's guess," said
Jeffrey Passel, a demographer with the Urban Institute.

Overall, the American population is expected to grow by about 50 percent from
its current level of 255 million. And while some of that increase is driven by
higher fertility rates, the overwhelming engine of growth is immigration.

The projections, which in the last decade assumed about 500,000 immigrants into
the country each year, now include 880,000 a year.

That change reflects the recognition that the 1986 Immigration and Reform Act
did not reduce undocumented immigration as much as expected. "In fact, there is
no evidence of any reduction in the undocumented movement," wrote Jennifer Day,
author of the Census Bureau report.

Also, the Immigration Act of 1990 increased by nearly 40 percent the number of
immigrants allowed legal entry into the country each year.

Over time, the effects of immigration on population are multiplied by higher
birth rates among immigrant groups.

At the same time, fertility rates among all American women increased
"dramatically" in the late 1980s, the report said, from 1.8 births per woman to
almost 2.1 births. Demographers believe that increase is the result of many baby
boom women -- the generation born between 1946 and 1964 -- who delayed
childbirth for many years but then gave birth in great numbers since the
mid-1980s.

The "total fertility rate" for American women is now projected to increase to
over 2.1 births by 2050, signaling that the population will continue to grow
even without immigration. By contrast, the bureau's earlier projections assumed
that total fertility rates would drop to 1.8 per woman by 2050, below the
"replacement" level that ensures population growth.

Even in the current decade, the nation's population will grow rapidly, adding
25.4 million people, the largest numerical increase since the 1950s, when the
population increased by nearly 28 million over the decade.

Over the past 60 years, the nation grew by 130 million, the same figure
projected for the next 60 years. "In a way, it looks like a steady line," said
Day, although the long-term trend masks the post-World War II baby boom and the
so-called baby bust years that followed.

The Census Bureau releases its projections in multiple "series," ranging from a
low series that assumes less growth, placing the population at the turn of the
century at 268 million, to a high series that sets the figure at 281 million.
The most often cited numbers are derived from the "middle series," which
projects the population will be about 275 million in the year 2000 and about 383
million in 2050.

The revised projections assume that life expectancy will increase slowly,
negated somewhat by the effect of AIDS on the population. The bureau also
assumed that the impact of the disease would diminish after the turn of the
century as a result of behavior changes and, perhaps, discovery of a vaccine or
cure.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, U.S. POPULATION PROJECTIONS (DATA FROM THIS CHART IS
UNAVAILABLE.), TOBEY

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              213 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 6, 1992, Sunday, Final Edition

Responses to German Violence

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 551 words


AFTER A BURST of fierce international criticism over its languid reaction to
right-wing violence, the German government has changed tone. Bonn announced
Friday it will establish a special task force to crack down on right-wing
extremism; that followed Thursday's statement by Chancellor Helmut Kohl that the
government would "use all possible legal measures to fight violence and
political extremism." If this represents a real commitment with some political
momentum and forcefulness behind it, not merely a momentary response to
momentary uproar, Mr. Kohl's political challenges now move into a pragmatic
realm that Americans may find partly familiar.

Having waited till the number of recorded attacks on minorities approached 2,000
and the numbers professing Nazi-type views showed a perceptible upsurge, the
German authorities can now no more eradicate the attacks by simple fiat than
this country could bring an overnight end to drug-related murders. What they can
do, though, is reinforce and seek to strengthen the hints of a broader
turnaround in public opinion that some are now reporting. German citizens lately
have been marching against racism and xenophobia in substantial numbers and, by
many accounts, expressing widespread fury that their government let things drift
to the point where events could create this much embarrassment on the world
stage. What's needed from the government is a sustained message of outrage at
attacks on foreigners -- outrage that was undetectable for far too long --
coupled with protection measures for asylum seekers and a convincing
demonstration that physical crimes against them, like crimes against any human
being, will be reliably punished.

The experience of prosecutions up till now has sent exactly the opposite
message. Most skinheads convicted of assaults that caused injury or death have
received light or suspended sentences. In one highly publicized case where
political leaders had called for heavy sentences, four youths convicted of
kicking an Angolan guest worker to death in 1990 nonetheless received suspended
sentences of two to four years -- judges being, after all, independent of
politicians' pronouncements. Tales of police standing by during violent
incidents, or consistently neglecting to answer distress calls from foreigner
hostels, have been frequent. And the Defense Ministry said in November that
soldiers had been involved in at least two dozen incidents, including three
murders.

Mr. Kohl's government faces further law enforcement obstacles given the
decentralization of local police and the near total absence of well-trained
forces in the former eastern provinces -- difficulties that may be eased by the
shift to a federal task force. But the deeper issue remains one of leadership.
Some party leaders have balked at suggestions of stronger law enforcement,
saying it could threaten democratic rights. There is still a danger of focusing
too much on the extremists' views (the defense minister's response, for
instance, was to call for the expulsion of right-wingers from the military) and
not enough on actions that are crimes under existing law. The government can't
afford to take that sidetrack, or to falter in what is sure to be a difficult
task even if the apparent new public support for it holds.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              214 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 10, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Black Agents Accuse INS of Racial Bias

Lou Cannon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A5

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 9


Black special agents in the Los Angeles district of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service have accused the agency of racial discrimination of
"epidemic proportions" in a written complaint filed privately with the Justice
Department.

In interviews and documents obtained by The Washington Post, the agents charge
that regional INS officials, especially those in the Los Angeles office, have
systematically refused to promote blacks to supervisory positions. They also
complain that white supervisors have harassed blacks.

Nineteen agents and one former agent, all of them black, lodged a "complaint of
racial discrimination against African Americans assigned to the western region"
in a class action filed last month with Ted McBurrows, director of the equal
employment opportunity staff of the Justice Department. McBurrows declined to
comment.

Robert M. Moschorak, district director of the INS, said he was not aware of the
complaint but denied that such a complaint had merit.

"We don't make distinction between races," he said. "I would not tolerate
anything less than equitable selections that are fair and non-discriminatory."

But black agents and some whites at INS told a different story. "There is an
old-fashioned, old-boy group running criminal investigations," said a white INS
official who asked not to be identified. "They don't want blacks in their club."

James Humble-Sanchez, a criminal investigator and president of the INS Local
505, said, "We've had oficers terminated based on skin color. Blacks are hardest
hit, but discrimination also exists against women and Hispanics." He said
criminal charges are pending against one male supervisor accused of sexual
harassment.

In the last 10 years, according to the complaint, 29 people have been hired as
supervisory investigators in the seven-county Los Angeles district, the largest
INS unit in the nation. Of these, 25 are white, three Hispanic and one black, a
woman.

Some blacks said regional INS officials have a particular bias against black
men, although at least eight of those who signed the complaint filed with the
Justice Department are women.

"There has never been a black male appointed to a supervisory position," said
special agent Bobby Coleman, who is black and recently lost a federal court case
charging that he had been a victim of discrimination in hiring.

The court case is public record, and Coleman was the only agent willing to speak
for attribution.

Neville Tucker, Coleman's attorney, said that "one of the weaknesses in our case
was that it was not a class action, which allows much broader evidence of
discrimination, including the historical record of an agency's actions."

In Coleman's case, the INS acknowledged he had been passed over for promotion
once in favor of a white agent whose written test score was lower, but INS
authorities denied that this was because of racial bias. Tucker said U.S.
District Judge William Keller's decision favoring the agency will be appealed.

The white official who cited "the old-fashioned, old-boy group" in charge of
criminal investigations called the INS a "last bastion" among federal law
enforcement agencies in which minorities, especially blacks, were unwelcome in
supervisory positions. He said the western region of the INS has violated
federal law by not following affirmative action or upward-mobility programs.

Last April 22, FBI officials announced that the bureau had headed off a
potential discrimination suit by its black agents by agreeing to change
procedures governing promotion, evaluation and discipline. Under the agreement,
six agents were to be promoted to supervisor and given a total of $ 115,000 in
back pay.

On June 10, the Drug Enforcement Administration agreed to pay $ 275,000 to some
Hispanic agents and continue promoting them at the same rate as other agents in
a settlement of a seven-year-old discrimination suit. The settlement also
established a new advisory committee, elected by Hispanic agents, with access to
DEA leaders.

Under federal law, the INS agents must exhaust administrative remedies before
filing a class-action suit. If the complaints are not addressed, a suit could
not be filed until next April.

Statistics made available by the INS and the complaining agents show
discrepancies. For instance, a Puerto Rican hired as a supervisor in August is
listed as a black by Moschorak, who said the man is a member of a national black
law enforcement organization. But agents said that the supervisor considers
himself Hispanic, not black, and that counting him as a black was a subterfuge.

About 20 percent of 1,600 INS employees in the western region are black. Tucker
said only one of the region's 67 supervisors of criminal investigators is black.

Coleman, an INS agent since 1974 who has been passed over for promotion three
times, vowed in an interview to continue his fight.

"As the old folks say, it's a sin and a shame, but I've fought a long time
against racial injustice and won't stop now," Coleman said. "Nothing has been
done [in INS] to allow blacks to advance."

Among the black agents' complaints are that, unlike most white agents, they are
required to give detailed logs of daily activities. Some blacks also complained
of unfair disciplinary procedures directed against them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              215 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 11, 1992, Friday, Final Edition

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 1479 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba, Dec. 10, 1992


In a soft voice, Bethony Morant humbly asked for help.

His wife, Silieses Success, 22, was airlifted from this desolate Haitian refugee
camp to the United States several weeks ago so that the couple's 3-month-old
boy, Ricardo, could be treated for a severe respiratory ailment.

The boy died. Now, with her special reason for entering the U.S. gone, Success
has been placed in Immigration and Naturalization Service detention in
Manhattan. She is HIV-positive and, therefore, barred from legal entry into the
United States. And Morant, who also is HIV-positive, is stuck along with 275
others like him at the barbed wire encampment called Camp Bulkeley inside the
U.S. Naval Base here.

"There is no law that says they are supposed to separate the family," said
Morant, 25, adding earnestly: "I hope you try to help my situation."

His plea and his desperate hope were echoed over and over yesterday as the
Haitian refugees at Bulkeley mobbed the first journalists since June who have
been allowed into the shadeless camp where some refugees say they are held in
prison-like conditions. Most of them have tested positive for the virus that
causes AIDS and some have developed the disease, but many show no signs of
illness.

The 276 Haitians, including 42 children, who have no idea when or if they will
be set free from their limbo, live in crowded cinderblock or plywood barracks
where they sleep on canvas cots, use dirty portable toilets and find privacy by
hanging sheets as partitions.

Military officials say the refugees are regularly fed fresh vegetables, fruit
and milk, but the refugees say otherwise. Yesterday, they ate rice and franks.

The camp is a vast improvement over the days when as many as 12,000 Haitians
populated this naval base in tent cities that housed, over several months, about
40,000 Haitians who had fled the political violence and chaos of their homeland.
The exodus came after a Sept. 30, 1991, coup ousted elected President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

About 11,000 of those refugees -- all of whom were tested for HIV -- were
allowed to enter the United States after they demonstrated to the INS that they
had a plausible claim that they would be persecuted in their homeland and needed
political asylum. The rest, the INS says, were not political refugees and were
taken back to Haiti.

Officials say those remaining in the camp also have plausible claims for
political asylum but are excluded because they tested positive for the AIDS
virus. Under U.S. immigration law, people who are HIV-positive are not allowed
to enter the country.

Although the 276 are but a slice of the total Haitian refugee picture, they pose
the most difficult ethical and legal challenges to U.S. policy on Haitian
refugees.

Attorney General William P. Barr has the power to grant them parole to enter the
United States, but instead the government is fighting in court to keep the
Haitians out.

Their fate may be decided by the Supreme Court, or a policy change expected
after the swearing in of President-elect Clinton, who has promised to lift the
ban on HIV-positive immigrants. For some, the onset of AIDS symptoms will signal
an end of a different kind.

"It is Kafkaesque for them, just what they've gone through," Harold Hongju Koh
of the Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic at Yale University said this
week. He is representing the Haitians in U.S. courts.

"Think about the fact that here are people whose close relatives were murdered,
their lives shattered in Haiti, and then they find that they're out of the
frying pan and into the fire, and by a country that they assumed might offer
some measure of comfort. They just made the mistake of taking the Statue of
Liberty seriously," he said.

The temporary camp grows more permanent by the day. Some of the refugees have
languished for more than a year here. Their families have been separated. Their
health is failing or perhaps will soon. Although they cannot enter the United
States, they cannot go back to Haiti either -- at least not until legal battles
over their fate are decided by U.S. courts.

Although they praise the efforts of the camp commander, Army Col. Stephen P.
Kinder, to make life more pleasant at the camp, the mood here remains depressed.

"Here and Haiti is like the same thing -- suffering both ways," said Jocelyn
Dasme, 22, who has been at the camp for seven months with her two children. An
interpreter, Marine Corps Cpl. Jean Wagnac, continued, "She says if she could
escape from here she would, just like she escaped from Haiti."

In what the refugee lawyers say is a measure of growing desperation, two
Haitians attempted to kill themselves last month.

"Because everybody has HIV, are they gonna stay here for the rest of their
lives? Everybody that's screened in -- are they gonna die here?" asked a
22-year-old man from St. Marque who has been at the camp for a year.

The health of at least 15 of the refugees has deteriorated into AIDS, according
to a September memo of the military's medical detachment at the camp. This
summer and earlier this fall, 18 refugees were granted special exemptions from
the HIV ban and airlifted to the United States for more intensive medical care.
Two of them died, the Success baby and an adult who had a heart attack.

Kinder said four people are scheduled to be medevaced from the island this
weekend, including two pregnant women and a 7-year-old girl who has AIDS.

Of the camp's 276 residents, 222 are HIV-positive, including three children.
Twenty are HIV-negative but are remaining in the camp because they are relatives
of others there, and 34 had an unknown HIV status as of last week, said Kinder.

Many of the refugees interviewed yesterday remain suspicious of the HIV
diagnosis. "How could this be?" Ronald Louis, 25, asked through the interpreter,
who then paraphrased Louis's query: "He's married to his wife for nine years and
she doesn't have HIV, but he does."

Kinder said in a briefing yesterday that among those who have been sent to the
states recently was a family of five whose patriarch had been mistakenly labeled
as HIV-positive.

Health and Human Services Secretary Louis W. Sullivan, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, and numerous other public health organizations
unsuccessfully sought to remove the HIV ban from immigration law three years
ago.

They argued that HIV does not pose the kind of public health risk that the
exclusion law is intended to safeguard against, such as the highly contagious
tuberculosis. But the Bush administration contended that immigrants bearing the
virus pose a public health risk and would overburden the nation's public health
system.

Clinton has raised hopes among the Haitians by promising to change the policy
for HIV immigrants. He has described the Haitian boat people as "political
refugees," and said in August, "My own view is that we should keep the refugees
here until we can restore democracy to Haiti and restore the duly-elected
government there."

The more immediate battle in which the Haitians are stuck, however, turns on
whether the refugees have the right to legal counsel.

Although the U.S. District Court for Eastern New York and the 2nd U.S.  Circuit
Court of Appeals ruled this spring that the government must allow HIV-positive
Haitians access to legal counsel as they pursue their claims for asylum, the
Bush administration refused for months to allow lawyers to speak to their
clients at Guantanamo.

Government lawyers have asked the Supreme Court to decide the issue, while
lawyers for the Haitians are hoping that a district court trial scheduled on the
issue will go forward this spring. If Clinton changes the policy in the
meantime, both cases may become moot.

The Supreme Court already is considering a separate issue: whether Haitians
interdicted on the high seas can be returned to Haiti without an immigration
hearing, as President Bush ordered last May. Now, however, the refugees
apparently have found new ways of getting to the United States. Federal agents
this fall have found hundreds of Haitians hiding in cargo containers aboard
freighters near the mouth of the Miami River and off Fort Lauderdale.

Haitian refugee advocates, such as Randall Robinson, director of the lobbying
group TransAfrica, call the Bush policy on Haitian refugees racist. Other
groups, such as immigrants from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, are
accepted into the United States in far greater numbers with less legal
complication.

Some of the Haitians at Camp Bulkeley agree with that assessment -- how else to
explain a policy that does not make sense to them?

Of the HIV exclusion, Munir Coulanges, 25, who has been at the camp for seven
months, said, "We don't accept it. We cannot accept it, because we are not the
only ones who are HIV-positive. Doesn't the U.S. have HIV-positive people?"


SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HAITIAN WOMAN HANGS LAUNDRY ON FENCE AROUND REFUGEES' QUARTERS
AT CAMP BULKELEY, CUBA. KEITH JENKINS

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              216 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 16, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

Mexico Seeks DEA Agents On Charges of Kidnapping

Tod Robberson, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A10

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 15, 1992


The Mexican attorney general's office called today for the extradition of two
U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agents who allegedly organized the
kidnapping of a Mexican doctor in connection with the 1985 torture-killing of a
DEA agent.

The attorney general's office charged that Antonio Garate and Hector Berrellez
of the DEA ordered the April 1990 kidnapping of Mexican doctor Humberto Alvarez
Machain, who was acquitted in Los Angeles Monday of charges related to the 1985
killing of DEA agent Enrique Camarena. The two Los Angeles-based agents made
regular appearances at Alvarez's trial.

Alvarez arrived here at dawn today following U.S. deportation. News services
reported from Los Angeles that Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
prevented the released Alvarez from seeing his lawyers, taking him to the
airport as prosecutors sought unsuccessfully to have the judicial acquital
overturned.

On arrival here, Alvarez immediately was taken into custody and questioned about
involvement in Camarena's killing and the circumstances of his own kidnapping,
the attorney general's office said in a statement.

Late today, Alvarez was released and allowed to return to his home in
Guadalajara after Mexican authorities determined there was insufficient evidence
to justify his continued detention, the statement added.

Alvarez's kidnapping led to the most serious diplomatic confrontation between
Mexico and the United States since President Carlos Salinas de Gortari took
office in 1988. Today, Salinas lauded the U.S. federal judge's decision to
acquit Alvarez and said international harmony depended on mutual "respect of the
sovereignty of nations."

Salinas and President Bush are scheduled to join Canadian Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney Thursday in signing the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Mexico's Foreign Ministry said late Monday that Alvarez's acquittal did not
resolve the issues surrounding his 1990 abduction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              217 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 16, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

Poll of Latinos Counters Perceptions on Language, Immigration

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 574 words


Most U.S. citizens of Mexican, Puerto Rican and Cuban descent prefer to speak
English rather than Spanish, oppose increased immigration and profess strong
U.S. patriotism, according to results of the most comprehensive survey ever of
Latino attitudes.

Even non-citizens in the survey said they believe there are too many immigrants
in the United States. Authors of the Latino National Political Survey presented
their findings yesterday as a counterpoint to widely held misperceptions of one
of the nation's fastest growing so-called minority groups. The survey polled
2,817 Americans of Mexican, Puerto Rican and Cuban descent in 40 cities, as well
as a small sampling of non-Hispanic whites.

More than 90 percent of those polled said they believed U.S. citizens and
residents should learn English, and about 85 percent said they felt learning
English was the objective of bilingual education.

More than 65 percent of the respondents agreed with the statement "there are too
many immigrants" in this country. And when asked about the strength of their
pride and love for the United States, vast majorities said their feelings were
extreme or very strong.

"We have a population here that in fact is very American and very pro-American,"
said Angelo Falcon, president of the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy in New
York and one of four survey authors.

Rodolfo O. de la Garza, professor of government at the University of Texas at
Austin and another survey author, said the results reflect the extent to which
Latinos embrace American culture. And it is surprising, he said. "They have been
socialized . . . to view the world the way America views the world."

But within the data are reflections of the diversity of opinion among Latinos,
who the survey's authors said cannot be viewed as a monolithic group.

Those surveyed professed strong loyalty to people of their national origin and
said they had little contact or cultural affiliation with members of other
Latino groups.

And while the groups have some common political concerns, such as bilingual
education and the belief in a strong governmental role in ensuring social
welfare, their views on some issues, such as affirmative action and abortion,
are diverse.

Pluralities of Latinos in the study said they believe women are better off if
they have a career or job, and the numbers who took this position were higher
than the number of Anglos who did.

In the survey, sponsored by the Ford, Rockefeller, Spencer and Tinker
foundations and conducted from August 1989 through April 1990, 1,546 Mexicans,
589 Puerto Ricans and 682 Cubans were questioned, along with 456 non-Hispanic
whites. The respondents were a mix of native born and foreign born, citizens and
non-citizens. Interviews were conducted in Spanish or English, depending on the
preference of the respondent. Margin of sampling error was plus or minus 3
percent.

The three Latino groups were chosen because together they account for nearly 80
percent of U.S. Latino residents. Some of the fastest growing -- albeit small --
Latino groups, such as Salvadorans, were not included in the survey.

The survey also showed little agreement on the use of such pan-ethnic terms as
"Latino" or "Hispanic," a name used for bureaucratic convenience by U.S.
officials. Majorities of respondents in each group wanted to be called names
that reflected their national origin, such as Mexican American or Mexican
origin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              218 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 17, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Journey Home in a Time of Need;
Area Somalis Sign Up With the Army to Be Interpreters

Stephanie Griffith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE C1

LENGTH: 885 words


Abdi Dhore always figured on returning to Somalia someday, when he could reunite
with relatives in the capital city of Mogadishu and tell them about his new life
in America.

This week he will be back in the famine-ravaged nation, but his family will stay
behind in the District, and it's unlikely he'll get to see any relatives. Dhore
is one of 130 Washington area immigrants the Army has hired to be interpreters
for military personnel during the massive relief effort in Somalia.

For Dhore, 32, a telephone sales agent who was last in Somalia six years ago and
is seeking U.S. citizenship, volunteering for the job was a way to combat the
helplessness he has felt watching his homeland disintegrate in a civil war.

"The main thing is to go and help the people," said Dhore, who celebrated an
early Christmas this week with his 10-year-old stepdaughter and his wife,
Jennifer, who is four months pregnant. "The Marines didn't know anything about
Somalia and they're helping. As someone born in Somalia . . . going to help is
the least I can do."

Most of the immigrants who agreed to be interpreters were picked from a list of
about 1,000 Somalis military officials obtained from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Officials said the interpreters are needed because few
in the U.S. military speak Somali.

"We targeted the Washington, D.C, area . . . because of the short time [needed]
to be able to get them ready to go," said Capt. David Stockwell, an Army
spokesman.

Stockwell said that once in Somalia the interpreters will not carry weapons or
be allowed to leave military compounds unless escorted by Marines. The Somali
volunteers will be paid $ 2,000 a month, plus $ 1,000 upon returning to the
United States, and will stay in Somalia for two to three months.

Yesterday, dozens of the volunteers were getting documentation and going through
a military orientation program at the McLean Hilton near Tysons Corner. Most
said that although they are comfortably settled in this country, they were
compelled to return to Somalia by images of starving people that have flashed
across their television screens in recent months.

Others said they were motivated by the chance to see their native land again,
despite its despair, and a few are clinging to the hope that relatives or
friends might be able to visit them in military compounds.

Whatever their reasons for going, almost everyone was excited.

"I'm thrilled," said Hussein Obsiye, 35, a medical technologist who is a U.S.
citizen. "I'm very happy we can make a difference."

Despite assurances from U.S. officials that volunteering as interpreters would
not affect applications for asylum or citizenship in this country, many Somalis
shied away from the program.

Allan Ebert, a Washington lawyer who has worked in the Somali community, said he
has advised many of his clients not to take part in the program.

"The [U.S.] government says [leaving the country] won't have any impact on their
immigration status," Ebert said. "I'm not sure I believe it."

At the hotel yesterday, Somali refugees Ayan Wehlie, 19, of Alexandria, and her
cousin, Amal Salah, 18, of Falls Church, filled out INS forms that will allow
them to leave and reenter the country without jeopardizing their legal status.

The women said they were going to Somalia against the wishes of their parents
and friends, who feared they might become victims of violence.

"To be honest we are a little scared, but that won't stop us from going," said
Wehlie, a nursing student at Northern Virginia Community College.

"So many children are dying in Somalia. They deserve all the help we can give to
restore the peace and quiet."

Military officials said the volunteers will depart this morning for Aberdeen
Proving Ground in Maryland, where they will be issued fatigues and gear.

They will depart for Somalia tomorrow from McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey.

Several Somalis at the hotel yesterday said they are sure they will be able to
help the relief operation run more smoothly, pointing to an incident in which
French soldiers fired on a Somali family that drove through a checkpoint when
the family failed to heed orders to halt.

Other Somalis, saying that information fliers recently distributed by the U.S.
military were written in garbled Somali, said they hope to help improve such
communication.

Obsiye said he hopes that the presence of Somali interpreters with Marines will
reduce the potential for violence among family clans whose battles have helped
to tear Somalia apart.

"Everybody here who is educated has some respect within our community," said
Obsiye, who wants to try to ease discord among his own clan, the Gadabursi, from
the northwest corner of Somalia. "I hope we can do something to reduce the clan
tension."

Like many of the volunteers, Dhore said he would like to take gifts to friends
and relatives in Somalia, but military officials have told him he may take only
one small duffle bag with a change of clothes, toiletries and four changes of
underwear.

But he said he realizes that reuniting with relatives is not the purpose of the
mission.

"You're not going to see the parents and friends. For your security, you're
going to have to stay with the troops," he said.

"This is a job, it's not an adventure."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ABDI DHORE AND HIS WIFE, JENNIFER, JOKE OF HER PREGNANCY AS HE
GETS READY TO LEAVE FOR SOMALIA. DUDLEY M. BROOKS

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              219 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 19, 1992, Saturday, Final Edition

Black Agents Citing INS Race Bias Meet With Clinton Transition Aide

Lou Cannon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18, 1992


A representative of the Clinton transition team has met with black special
agents in the Los Angeles district of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to hear their complaints of persistent racial discrimination by the agency.

"All we want is parity with white agents," said John J. Washington, a senior
special agent who has been with INS since 1978.

Linda Yanez, who heads the immigration unit of President-elect Clinton's
transition team in Washington, said she had directed Linda Jean Wong, a Los
Angeles-based lawyer, to meet with the agents. Wong said she met with them
Thursday, but she declined to disclose her recommendations.

Yanez, an expert on immigration policy who teaches at Harvard University, said
the findings would be included in a report presented to the new attorney general
after Clinton makes this appointment.

Washington, a criminal investigator, is one of a score of agents who has filed a
written complaint with the Justice Department accusing INS of racial
discrimination of "epidemic proportions."

The agents cite various instances of discrimination and contend that they have
been systematically passed over for promotion to supervisory positions in favor
of white agents.

According to statistics they have compiled, only one black is among 29 people
hired as supervisory agents in the seven-county Los Angeles district during the
last decade.

Robert M. Moschorak, INS district director, has denied that promotion is based
on racial considerations. He also said the district had promoted a black agent
to supervisor in August. But several agents, two of them white, said that the
promoted agent was Hispanic, not black, and that Moschorak was aware of this.

Washington said that, after a report Dec. 10 in The Washington Post about the
agents' complaint, openings had been posted for four temporary supervisory
positions in an effort to "appease" blacks. Another agent who asked not to be
identified said two blacks had been abruptly promoted to supervisory positions
in New York.

The complaining agents described these steps as an effort to improve the image
of the present INS leadership with the incoming president.

Washington urged black agents not to accept the temporary positions until the
Clinton team fully evaluates present personnel policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              220 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 30, 1992, Wednesday, Final Edition

District's Population Sinks as Md., Va. Gain

D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; PAGE B1

LENGTH: 920 words


The District's population continues to decline steeply, but births and foreign
immigration have boosted the count in Virginia and Maryland, the Census Bureau
said yesterday.

The agency's annual population estimates showed that the nation's population
grew 1.2 percent, to 255.1 million, in the year that ended July 1. Immigrants
accounted for one-third of the increase.

The District lost 6,600 people in that period, bringing its official population
count to 589,000, the lowest since the Depression, the agency said.

Virginia gained population faster than the national pace, and Maryland grew at
about the same pace as the nation.

Local demographers said the city's 1.1 percent population drop probably reflects
the continued flight of middle-class families, especially to neighboring Prince
George's County.

The city's population declined 4.9 percent in the 1980s, but stabilized toward
the end of the decade. This year's loss was the second in a row, but it slowed
slightly from the year before.

"A 1 percent decline is pretty substantial," said George Grier, of the Greater
Washington Research Center. "My guess is most of it would be going to the
suburbs."

The District lost population because a small increase in immigration could not
make up for thousands of people who left the city, analysts said.

The Census Bureau estimates are not based on actual counts, but on government
records such as birth and death statistics, income tax records and immigration
patterns. The population counts are used to allocate money for 70 federal
programs.

Yesterday, bureau officials announced they would not adjust those estimates to
reflect a national undercount in the 1990 Census, disappointing officials in the
District and other large cities where the number of people missed was highest.

District officials would not comment on the federal figures because they have
not yet made their own population estimates, but they have questioned the
federal count in the past, saying it missed a substantial number of city
residents.

In Virginia, the population rose to nearly 6.4 million, an increase of 97,000
and a growth rate of 1.5 percent, according to the bureau's estimates.
Maryland's population rose to 4.9 million, up by 50,000, a 1 percent growth
rate.

Births accounted for a slight majority of the growth in both states, a reversal
from the 1980s, when immigration from other states and countries was the main
factor driving up the population, analysts said.

The estimates showed that Virginia and Maryland each had increases in foreign
immigration from the previous year, but Maryland's growth slowed because it lost
10,000 residents to other states. Virginia gained 17,000 people from other
states.

"A lot of it is related to the economy," said Robert E. Griffiths, director of
information resources for the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments.
"Things seem to be picking up more in Northern Virginia than in suburban
Maryland."

Griffiths said the rising importance of births in pushing up population is a
natural consequence of the huge influx of young families into the area in the
1980s and the spurt of immigration from foreign countries. Families of
foreign-born parents tend to be larger than families of those who are
native-born.

The Census Bureau numbers also show that the area's appeal to foreign immigrants
has not faded, despite the recession, which has cost thousands of jobs.

Officials predict increased immigration to the United States this year from El
Salvador, Vietnam and mainland China, all of which already have sent significant
numbers of immigrants to the Washington area, said Michael Hoefer, chief of
demographic statistics for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Virginia's population estimate was a surprise to state officials, who had
predicted a slightly slower increase of 1.2 percent, said Daniel Jones, chief
economist for the Virginia Employment Commission.

"What we're seeing in the '90s is a higher annual rate of increase than in the
'80s," he said.

Although the Census Bureau did not pinpoint Virginia's growth hotspots, Jones
said the previous year's data show surges in Northern Virginia, the Richmond
suburbs and the Tidewater area -- the same suburban locales that grew in the
1980s.

For the nation, Census Bureau demographer Ed Byerly said, the estimates show
that the year ending in July "was a fairly stable year. People didn't seem to
move very much."

The estimates showed that Nevada led the nation in growth for the second year in
a row, increasing its population by 3.5 percent, a markedly slower pace than the
previous year. Connecticut was the only state to lose population, dropping by a
fifth of a percentage point.

Nine of the nation's 10 fastest-growing states were in the West: Nevada Alaska,
Colorado, Idaho, Washington, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico and Hawaii. Georgia also
was among the top 10.

California's growth rate slowed because 212,000 people left for other states,
but California also drew nearly a third of the nation's foreign immigrants.

The estimates show that states in the Midwest, which lost population to the
Sunbelt in the 1980s, are "chugging along pretty well," Byerly said. Populations
are recovering in the oil-patch states -- Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana -- that
also were hit in the late 1980s, he said.

President-elect Clinton's state of Arkansas gained 25,000 people during the
year, growing at about the national rate.

Staff writer Brooke A. Masters contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, POPULATION CHANGES (DATA FROM THIS CHART WAS UNAVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: DC NEWS, MARYLAND NEWS, VIRGINIA NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              221 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 31, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Book World;
When Sushi Met Samba

Alan Ryan

SECTION: STYLE; PAGE C3

LENGTH: 718 words


BRAZIL-MARU

By Karen Tei Yamashita

Coffee House Press. 248 pp., $ 19.95


Brazil, like the United States, is a land of immigrants. In the 19th century, a
band of American families from the defeated Confederacy settled there in an
effort to re-create their lost world in the Amazon forest. In this century,
Brazil's culture has been enriched by several waves of European immigrants,
principally Italians, Germans, Turks and Jews from Eastern Europe. Hence a
president named Kubitschek, an architect named Niemayer, a painter named di
Cavalcanti, a writer named Scliar.

And there are plenty of Japanese immigrants in Brazil too. They are settled
primarily in the southern part of the country and, in fact, there are more
Japanese in Sao Paulo than in any city in the world other than Tokyo.

Today in North America, when we think of the Japanese, we are likely to think of
Matsushita or Nissan and their dedicated employees, or of banks and the Nikkei
Index. We do not think of the Japanese in the role of immigrants in a foreign
land, seeking a better, richer, freer future for themselves and their children.
But in the early years of this century, many Japanese did just that in Brazil.

Karen Tei Yamashita, an American writer who was widely praised two years ago for
her first novel, "Through the Arc of the Rain Forest," draws upon the exotic and
immensely complex story of Japanese migration to Brazil in "Brazil-Maru," a
novel that is intelligent and richly thoughtful despite some flaws.

Unlike most of their countrymen in Brazil, Yamashita's Japanese characters are
not contract laborers. Instead, they are a unified band of Christians, followers
of a Japanese evangelist, who have pooled their resources on an extravagantly
optimistic plan: They intend to live out their socialist ideals by building a
community of their own in the Brazilian wilderness. Arriving at the port of
Santos in 1925, they travel by train to the northwestern part of the state of
Sao Paulo, and at once begin clearing forest and mastering the land.

Yamashita traces the history of the settlement from the time of the colonists'
arrival to the present, concentrating on a few characters and families and
stressing the role of the individual in shaping the history of the group. She
emphasizes the personal and the mundane, the effects of love won and lost as
well as the burden of physical labor necessary for survival. For example, while
baseball becomes the main passion, chicken farming provides the main support,
and when the time seems ripe for expansion, both settlers and reader become
deeply involved in such problems as getting proper bats and balls and
transporting eggs over large distances.

Out of such daily details, however, Yamashita raises some large and essential
questions about human nature in general and about the special issues of
immigration in particular. She explores the responsibility of the individual in
a community, and of a united community within a larger society. Her Japanese
characters suffer prejudice and attacks from other Brazilians, but is it because
they are different or because they deliberately keep themselves apart, few of
them even learning Portuguese? Questions abound here about the settlers' proper
relationship with the land (a traditional Japanese interest as well as a modern
ecological concern), about the relative values of country life versus city life
(a common theme in modern Brazilian writing) and about many other issues, all
springing naturally from a story that covers three generations.

It's unfortunate, therefore, that Yamashita has chosen to use five successive
narrative voices, a technique that may add some spurious immediacy but denies
her the chance for a more unified thematic development. And, although the novel
includes some lively and colorful scenes, Yamashita's prose is more dogged and
documentary than dramatic, with the result that her five narrators all sound
exactly alike.

Still, "Brazil-Maru" is warm, compassionate, engaging and thought-provoking. An
oddly angled view of immigrants elsewhere, it casts light into many of the
darker corners in our own immigrant nation.


The reviewer, who writes frequently about Latin American culture, is the editor
of the forthcoming "Penguin Book of Brazilian Short Stories."



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, KAREN TEI YAMASHITA, AUTHOR OF "BRAZIL-MARU," LIVED IN THE SOUTH
AMERICAN NATION FOR 10 YEARS.

TYPE: REVIEW

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              222 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 31, 1992, Thursday, Final Edition

Nation Grew In 1992 by 2.9 Million

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A4

LENGTH: 216 words


The nation's population grew to 256.6 million this year, fueled by an
immigration boom not seen since the early part of this century, the Census
Bureau said yesterday in releasing its projection for New Year's Day 1993.

The figure represents an increase of 2.9 million over the past year, the agency
said. The record for a single year's growth was 3.1 million in the baby boom
year of 1956.

The 1992 count was boosted by the arrival of 846,000 people from foreign
countries, the highest 12-month immigration figure recorded since the year
ending June 30, 1914. One reason, analysts said, was the effect of a 1990
immigration law that eased or raised quotas from many nations.

The bureau also factored in projections for 4.1 million births over the year,
2.2 million deaths and the return of 129,000 Americans who had lived overseas,
including military personnel.

Census Bureau demographers project that the population will grow another 2.8
million in 1993. Births and deaths are expected to remain at about the same
level as that of 1992, but the influx of refugees from the former Soviet Union
and Indochina is projected to lessen.

The New Year's Day projection indicates that the U.S. population has grown by
3.2 percent, or 7.9 million people, since the 1990 census was taken.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              223 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 26, 1992, Tuesday, Final Edition

For U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine, It's 'a Dream Come True';
Posting to Ancestral Homeland Is an Important Chapter in the Immigrant Family
Saga of White House Ex-Deputy Press Secretary Popadiuk

John E. Yang, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 1281 words


As Roman Popadiuk prepares to go to Kiev as the first U.S. ambassador to
Ukraine, the words of his late Ukrainian parents echo in his ears.

"My folks always regarded America as the land of opportunity," Popadiuk said
quietly. "This is where we were going to build our lives and our future. . . .
My father instilled in me the need to strive, to do well -- to do well for
America."

For Popadiuk, an Austrian-born career Foreign Service officer who decided that
he wanted to be an ambassador when he was 16 in Brooklyn, the post is more than
just a professional milestone. It is an important chapter in a saga that, in
many ways, is typical of a generation of immigrant Americans.

The son of peasants driven from Ukraine during World War II, Popadiuk is going
to his ancestral homeland as the first official envoy of the United States, an
event symbolic of the end of the Cold War.

"For centuries, Ukrainians have prayed for and wanted an independent country,"
said Popadiuk, who is to be sworn in this afternoon in the Indian Treaty Room of
the Old Executive Office Building. "This is a dream come true to be able to play
a role for the leading country in the world today to help maintain and support
that independence. It is an honor and a historic opportunity. . . . The only
regret that I have is that my parents are not alive to witness this."

Popadiuk, who has been President Bush's deputy press secretary for foreign
affairs for three years, grew up speaking Ukrainian at home and likes to say he
will be able to call on Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk in Ukrainian and
then pick up the telephone and speak to Bush in English. Each leader warmly
acknowledged Popadiuk during a joint news conference in the East Room of the
White House May 6 during Kravchuk's official visit.

Despite his heritage, Popadiuk is reluctant to call his mission to Kiev a
homecoming. He has been in Ukraine, the second most populous of the former
Soviet republics, only last summer when Bush addressed the parliament.

"My home is America," he said. "My folks put a very heavy emphasis on us being
raised as good Americans, to love this country. . . . I'm very grateful to this
country for the opportunities it gave us, for taking us in as refugees and the
doors that were opened. We owe a lot to this country."

Popadiuk was born 42 years ago this Saturday, in a barracks in a refugee camp in
the U.S. zone of postwar Austria. His parents, Gregor and Paraskevia, had been
sent to Austria as slave labor after German troops overran western Ukraine.

He became a U.S. citizen at the federal courthouse in Brooklyn in November 1959
at age 9. His citizenship test was simple. With Thanksgiving approaching, the
judge asked him if he liked turkey. He said he did. The judge concluded: "You're
an American."

But his parents also emphasized their roots in Ukraine, a land he would not see
until he was a grown man. With the help of a Roman Catholic relief agency, his
family members sailed from Europe to New Orleans when he was 6 months old rather
than return to the Soviet Union. From there, they took a train to Chicago, where
they were met by their sponsors, a farm family from Oskaloosa, Iowa. But the
Popadiuks found the language a barrier and after five months moved to Brooklyn,
where they joined a large Ukrainian community.

Three times weekly, Popadiuk walked the mile across Brooklyn from his family's
home to Holy Ghost Ukrainian Catholic Church -- once on Sundays with his family
for Mass and again by himself after school on Tuesdays and Thursdays for
Ukrainian language classes.

His four children are ages 4 to 11, and his wife, Judy, is third-generation
Ukrainian. The eldest child is named Gregory for Popadiuk's father, and they
will have similar memories. The family attends Mass at the Ukrainian Catholic
National Shrine of the Holy Family, an Eastern Rite church in the shadow of the
National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Northeast Washington. The
children attend Ukrainian language classes for four hours each Saturday.

Popadiuk's mother had gone only as far as third grade, and his father, who
worked as a drill-press operator and janitor, finished seventh grade. But they
led family discussions on international affairs.

As a young boy, Popadiuk translated television news shows into Ukrainian for his
father. "And then we discussed the issues -- was the American policy right on
this or was the French policy toward the United States right or wrong on this?"
he recalled. "I kind of took it for granted that this is what I wanted to do
with my life."

He went to Catholic schools in Brooklyn and was the first Popadiuk in memory to
graduate from college, earning honors from Hunter College and a PhD in political
science from City University of New York. After working as a speechwriter and
researcher for the Indonesian mission at the United Nations, Popadiuk was
accepted in the Foreign Service.

Gregor Popadiuk had died at age 64, shortly before his son passed the Foreign
Service examination in 1979, but his counsel has served his son well. His mother
died in 1989 at 68.

At Roman Popadiuk's first assignment in Mexico City, for instance, he was
selected as a political officer after working in the consular office for only
two months on the strength of his language skills. He credits that to hard work
during his 19-week Spanish training.

"It was one of my first lessons," he said recently. "As my father used to say:
'Son, always work hard. Because if you work hard, you may not get promoted but
at least you won't get fired.' "

Years later, he got to the White House by volunteering to work in the Situation
Room, the basement complex where information is gathered on events worldwide.
"Like my father said: 'Go for it. . . . It is better to fail at something than
to say, I should've, I should've, I should've,' " he said.

Then-White House press secretary Larry Speakes hired him as an assistant press
secretary for foreign affairs in 1986 because he was a familiar face in the
Situation Room during such events as the U.S. bombing of Libya and the hijacking
of the cruise ship Achille Lauro.

Tall and soft-spoken, Popadiuk is popular with reporters at the White House for
his dry wit and plain-spoken explanations of administration policy. Applause
greeted White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater's announcement of
Popadiuk's nomination at a briefing in March.

Now Popadiuk is turning to the myriad details that surround the opening of a new
embassy in a new nation -- assembling a staff, finding housing, arranging a
commissary and more. During Kravchuk's visit to the United States, Popadiuk
talked with him about new facilities for the embassy community.

The embassy is housed in the three-story former regional Communist Party
headquarters and Popadiuk's office was the party chairman's office. The
ambassador's home is a former government guest house. The last occupant was
former East German leader Erich Honecker.

In diplomatic terms, Popadiuk said, "The challenges are unique. . . . You're
establishing relations with a totally new country, a country that is new to the
international arena and is new to the bilateral relationship with the United
States."

His priority will be aid so Ukraine, competing with Russia for worldwide
attention, can "become a viable, positive force in the international arena," he
said. "The role is going to be not only the bilateral relationship, but also
helping them to become a viable entity . . .

"No one's ever had this [challenge] in modern history in this sense or on this
scale," he said. But Gregor and Parasekvia Popadiuk's son has been preparing for
this all of his life.


NAME: ROMAN POPADIUK

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ROMAN POPADIUK. FRANK JOHNSTON; MAP, BRAD WYE

TYPE: BIOGRAPHY, NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1992 The Washington Post


                              224 of 224 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     May 27, 1993, Thursday, Final Edition

Chinese Gang Rivalry Blamed For N.J. Rampage Fatal to Four

From News Services

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11; AROUND THE NATION

LENGTH: 152 words

DATELINE: TEANECK, N.J.


A rampage that left four people dead in this suburban community apparently
stemmed from rivalry within a Chinese gang that helps to smuggle immigrants from
China, authorities said.

The victims and five men arraigned Tuesday on murder charges belonged to Fuk
Ching, a gang suspected of engaging in extortion, prostitution and smuggling of
illegal Chinese immigrants, Bergen County prosecutor John J. Fahy said.

Monday's rampage at a gang "safe house" here appeared to be retaliation for a
double homicide in New York City Jan. 8, Fahy said. Also on Monday, 57 illegal
immigrants from China were found in a cramped warehouse in Jersey City with four
men suspected of holding them captive.

Chip Bogdanski, an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman, said
investigators were not ruling out a connection between the smugglers and the Fuk
Ching. Fahy discounted any connection with the slayings.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post
