
                               1 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 30, 2010 Friday 12:30 PM EST

Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: Joe Arpaio, Sheriff, Maricopa County (Ariz.), washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1678 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County in Arizona was online Friday,
April 30, at 12:30 p.m. ET to discuss the new immigration law signed last week
by Gov. Jan Brewer (R), which criminalizes illegal immigration by defining it as
trespassing and allows local law enforcement agencies to question people they
suspect of being undocumented.


Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County in Arizona was online Friday, April 30, at
12:30 p.m. ET to discuss the new immigration law signed last week by Gov. Jan
Brewer (R), which criminalizes illegal immigration by defining it as trespassing
and allows local law enforcement agencies to question people they suspect of
being undocumented.

____________________

Washington, D.C.:  How can law enforcement "reasonably suspect" someone of being
undocumented without racial profiling? Other than race, what are the key
indicators?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: When you have a legitimate contact druing law enforcement
operations, you should be able to ask for identification which law enforcement
does anyway on a daily basis. You ask for ID and you see if that person is here
illegally by checking out the immigratin status of the person. Wwe don't go
around picking people off the streets because they look like they're from
another country just because of their race.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: What does Joe think about the economic boycott of Arizona?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: I think it's overblown, it's not fair. People just don't
understand what the law really says. People don't understand what the law
states, they're overreacting, expecially by threatening boycotts.

_______________________

White River Junction, Vt.: Does the sheriff favor mandatory national identity
cards to  be carried by all citizens?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: I think most people have a drivers license. I don't know
about a national ID card.

_______________________

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: We've also got Social Security and I don't think we need
another one.

_______________________

Los Angeles, Calif.: What criteria will law enforcement officers use to
determine whether someone is suspiciously illegal? If the criteria is not
codified in the law, will it then be up to the police officers to create their
own criteria, creating disparate application of the law across the state?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: Technically in the law it says no racial profiling, that's
in the new law. That's why there's a lot of training going on to train police
officers to ensure that there is no racial profiling.

_______________________

Perris, CA: How confident are you that this law will not lead to civil rights
lawsuits going against the State of AZ and why?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: My office in the last tjhree years has been very tough on
illegal immigation. We have investigated, arrested, detained in our jails over
38,000 illegal aliens with very few lawsuits. So I'm confident that this law can
be carried out without many allegations of racial profiling

_______________________

Middle Island, N.Y.: Are you going after the employers of the illegals? If not,
why not?  I personally believe that this problem is two-fold: one is the
illegals themselves and the other is the employer who hires the illegals. If we
do not go after both this problem will never end. What are your thoughts?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: My office has been enforciong a state employer sanction law
which is civil against the employers. We have arrested in 31 different raids of
businesses about 380 people and out of the 380 that are illegal, 231 were
arrested for stealing people's identification. It's very difficult to connect
the employers knowingly hiring the employees but we have arrested over 231
employees for phony IDs.

_______________________

Somerville, MA: What sort of response are you looking for at a federal level?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: With all the controversy under this new Arizona law that
maybe Congress and the president will really look into this problem instead of
just talking about it.

_______________________

Manassas, Va.: I wholeheartedly support your efforts of enforcing the law.
However, what concerns me is that it will be drowned by those who claim racism
against Hispanics. What measures have you taken to articulate and assure this is
not a racist matter but simply of enforcing the law?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: Demonstators have followed me around for years and continue
to in front of my office building calling me Hitler and every name in the book
but in my response I'm still doing the job. Last night, with all the controv
ersy, I sent out 200 deputy sheriffs and volunteer posse and within 12 hours
arrested 93 people, around 65 were illegal aliens involved in human smuggling.

_______________________

Boston, MA: Do you think this law will have a real impact on reducing the
increased levels of drug and violent offenses, which I assume is the underlying
point of the law?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: Yes. In my jail today we have almost 100 people charged with
murder and they're all illegally here. Plus many other violent crimes. If they
were not in this country we would not have 18 percent of the people in the jails
here that have many violent crimes.

I think the real reason is that they have violated the law by crossing that
border and being here and if people violate the law they should be held
accountable.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: If you are in Mexico and a Mexican police officer asked for your
ID, would you be upset at being momentarily detained or do you believe this is
proper police action no matter what the country?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: Well I was the director in Mexico of the U.S. Drug
Enforcement. I know how they operate in Mexico. And you better show them the ID;
their laws are a little different than ours. The audacity of the Mexican
president to encourage people to boycott Arizona is not right and they ought to
look at their own country first.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Hypothetical situation: I am a US Citizen, college age and of
Hispanic ethnicity. Having a hard time getting an internship, I decide that I am
going to do day labor and go to an area where people of this trade congregate.
Police investigate the group for illegal immigrants, and some of the people are
undoubtedly in this category and undocumented. I just happened to leave all my
IDs at home. Would I get taken in under suspicion of being an illegal immigrant?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: That's part of the new law that anybody that impedes traffic
by parking the car or truck to pick up day laborers both of them the driver and
the people coming to vehicle could be in violation. Common sense says that th
eofficer would do a ltitle checking if they decide to arrest the person. I'm
sure they'd talk to the person to figure out his identification, so I wouldn't
worry about this in that situation. Every case is different in law enforcement.

_______________________

Washington DC: Isn't it true that the Arizona law mirrors the Federal law? and
if so "declaring the Arizona law unconstitutional" would make the federal law
unconstitutional?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: That's correct. You are right on target.

_______________________

Del Ray, Va.: Hey Joe - Big fan here, an Arizona native who relocated to DC area
2 years ago.

Living in Arizona I saw how illegal immigration was such a problem and how much
it cost the taxpayers. What can I do from so far away to educate people on why
this law is a necessity?

Keep doing what you are doing!

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: We have economic problems today, unemployment. Other than
the illegal aliens violated the laws it's not fair for them taking up jobs when
we have so many people legally in this country that are unemployed.

_______________________

Silver Spring, MD: If you were the Secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security, how would you address the country's illegal immigration problem?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: I would continue to crack down on those here illegally in
the interior of the U.S., instead of just tlalking about the cliches of we must
secure the border, more boots on the ground, it's not just a border issue ...
it's a total U.S. issue and you have to hit this problem on all different
fronts.

_______________________

Mesa, AZ: Hi Joe. As a descendant of Italian immigrants who entered the country
before there were quotas and restrictions on foreign immigration, I'm having a
hard time understanding why we do have so many restrictions nowadays.

Do you think that creating the possibility for more legal immigration pathways
for unskilled immigrants will solve the problem? Or do we need fewer immigrants,
legal and illegal, in the country right now?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: My mother and father came from Italy legally and made a good
life for themselves. They worked hard but they were here legally. I have no
problems with people coming into the U.S. to become citizens, that's what made
this country great, but you must come into the country legally -- not illegally.

_______________________

Kennesaw, Ga.: I am a 25-year-old Mexican-American male, first-generation
American citizen. Say I drive through Arizona and get pulled over for speeding.
I have dark brown skin, black hair, brown eyes, I am wearin old raggety
construction clothes. Am i more likely to be asked to prove my citizenship than
a blonde-haired, blue-eyed driver that also got pulled over for speeding?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: The answer is no. We pull over many people irregardless of
their ethnic background or what they look like, that doesn't come into the
picture.

_______________________

Washington, DC: How come you have over 27,000 criminal warrants sitting on your
desk, but still conduct raids looking for "illegals" like the one you did
yesterday? Aren't your priorities misplaced?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio: The 27,000 warrants are not my r esponsibility. It's

the responsibility of the police of different cities that have those warrants.
Tt's the cities that arrested the people and they didn't show up for court, for
example. All law enforcement can pitch in. We do arrest hundreds of people
wanted on warrants. We at the Maricopa sheriff's just hold the paperwork but
we're not responsible for arresting those people.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 2, 2010 Monday 3:26 PM EST

Va. cops OK'd to ask about immigration status

BYLINE: Rosalind Helderman

LENGTH: 572 words



HIGHLIGHT: Law enforcement officials in Virginia can inquire into immigration
status of those they stop or arrest--just as they can under a controversial new
immigration law in Arizona--Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli has ruled
in an official legal opinion.


Law enforcement officials in Virginia can inquire into immigration status of
those they stop or arrest--just as they can under a controversial new
immigration law in Arizona--Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli has ruled
in an official legal opinion.

Written in response to a request for legal advice from Del. Bob Marshall
(R-Prince William), Cuccinelli ruled that police officers and other legal
authorities can look into the immigration status of anyone stopped or arrested.

A 2008 Virginia law requires that law enforcement check the immigration status
of anyone taken into custody on suspicion of having committed a separate crime.
Cuccinelli's opinion could expand such inquiries to those who have been legally
stopped by law enforcement, for instance those pulled over for a traffic
violation or at a police checkpoint.

Cuccinelli writes in the July 30 opinion that while local law enforcement have
the ability to arrest those they suspect of committing criminal violations of
immigration laws but not those they believe have violated civil immigration
statutes. But he says inquiring into status is different than arresting for a
violation and that law enforcement can inquire. While it is a crime to illegally
cross the border, many other immigration violations are civil offense, like
overstaying a valid visa.

"Virginia law enforcement officers have the authority to make the same inquiries
as those contemplated by the new Arizona law. So long as the officers have the
requisite level of suspicion to believe that a violation of the law has
occurred, the officers may detain and briefly question a person they suspect has
committed a federal crime," he writes.

In Virginia, official opinions of the attorney general are considered law unless
a judge disagrees with the legal analysis after an opinion has been challenged
in court.

Cuccinelli's opinion is legal guidance for local law enforcement and does not
require them to act. But those on both sides of the decision believe that it
provides law enforcement the legal authority to begin checking the status of
immigrants immediately, if they wish.

The opinion is sure to widen a debate over illegal immigration in Virginia,
where activists have said they wish to enact similar legislation to that adopted
in Arizona. A federal judge has blocked key provisions of the Arizona law,
including a provision that requires law enforcement to inquire about immigration
status of those they have a "reasonable suspicion" might be in the country
illegally. Cuccinelli filed an amicus brief supporting Arizona's position over
that state's law.

Cuccinelli's opinion was criticized by Claire Guthrie Gastanaga, a former chief
deputy attorney general of Virginia and advocate for pro-immigration
organizations.

"The Attorney General has done Virginians a disservice by crafting a result
oriented 'activist judge' opinion that seeks to serve his personal political
agenda rather than objectively interpret the law. The opinion closely tracks the
advocacy position that the AG took in his amicus brief in the Arizona case -- a
position rejected by the federal judge. The Attorney General's stance largely
mirrors the position of advocates for organizations, like [the Federation of
American Immigration Reform], seeking to reduce or prohibit all immigration,"
she said in a statement.

FAIR representatives have been working with Virginia activists who want to adopt
a law mirroring Arizona's.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Arizona set a trap. Obama fell in.

BYLINE: Roberto Suro

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 2021 words


Arizona's immigration law was never going to solve the problem of illegal
immigration. That is not its purpose. Instead it is an invitation to a shootout
in which there will be no winners. It is more of a provocation than an attempt
to enact policy, and as a protest against Washington's failure to fix a broken
immigration system, it resonates.

A preliminary injunction issued by U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton on
Wednesday halted several major parts of the law, but it really did nothing more
than set the terms for more litigation. A tortured path to the U.S. Supreme
Court seems likely, though even the nine justices won't be able to settle the
heart of the matter. If Arizona ultimately wins in court, states could end up
obliged to fashion their own immigration controls. If the federal government
wins, President Obama could find himself running for reelection on a devilish
issue he has done his best to avoid.

The authors of Arizona's SB 1070 set out to accomplish two main goals: They
wanted to attack legal precedents that have given the federal government almost
total say over immigration matters since the 1890s under a doctrine known as
"preemption." They argue that Washington has failed to control illegal
migration, so states should have a chance. They also wanted national attention
for their solution: a strategy they call "attrition through enforcement." The
idea is that if illegal immigrants constantly fear arrest by state and local
cops, they'll leave the country on their own. By promising a crackdown in
defiance of Washington, Arizona achieved both objectives as soon as the law
became a national controversy this spring.

Remember Proposition 187? That 1994 California ballot initiative also combined
anxiety over illegal immigration with a big dose of anger at an ineffectual
federal government. California voters had their rant on Election Day, but, like
SB 1070, Prop 187 got tied up in federal litigation, and there it died --
legally speaking. The voters' ire lived on politically. Before the 1996
elections, President Bill Clinton and congressional Democrats put strict limits
on immigrants' access to welfare and health programs, and they enacted the
toughest immigration enforcement measure in a generation.

SB 1070 has the potential to have an even greater impact on the debate over
immigration, even if it dies in court. The stakes are higher this time. We are
into the third year of a brutal economic downturn, and Washington gridlock has
had a stranglehold on immigration policy for even longer.

Immigration policy needs to be about a lot of things, including national
identity and security, but right now it needs to be about getting the economy's
pulse up and improving our global economic competitiveness. These challenges are
macro. The Arizona law offers micro solutions. It argues that immigration can be
a law enforcement matter and pushes the decision-making down to the state and
local level. That's a false hope regardless of where you stand on the issue, but
it's a false hope that has struck a chord with many Americans.

Nearly two dozen state governments have contemplated copycat measures, and
support for Arizona has become an article of faith for Republicans on the
campaign trail. Democrats are scrambling. That makes sense given the public
opinion polls showing broad agreement with the Arizona law and its get-tough
approach. A Pew survey in June, for example, found that a solid majority of the
public (64 percent) approves of the law, with its requirement that police verify
the immigration status of anyone they stop if they suspect that the person is in
the country illegally. Several other recentnational polls show majorities
supporting SB 1070. But the policy challenges in immigration are never single
faceted, and the public knows that.

Perhaps more than other issues, immigration requires balancing multiple
interests and objectives: satisfying both employers and workers, being both fair
and strict, for example. As a result, public opinion can seem ambivalent. The
same Pew survey that found backing for Arizona also showed that more than
two-thirds of Americans (68 percent) support a path to citizenship for illegal
migrants who pass background checks, pay fines and have jobs. That's not much
different than other Pew surveys going back before the recession. Indeed, a
majority has been saying for several years that it wants to see illegal
immigration brought under control, but not with harsh measures. The recession
has increased anxiety about getting this done, and Arizona offered a vehicle for
expressing impatience with Washington's bipartisan dithering.

The frustration has been building quietly since the last big push to overhaul
the immigration system ended in June 2007 with the Senate locked in a stalemate.
After more than a year of political drama, including massive immigrant marches
in the spring of 2006, legislation had emerged with backing from President
George W. Bush, some Republican moderates and most Democrats. It would have
increased enforcement, offered legalization to the current population of illegal
migrants and created measures to regulate future flows, including a
temporary-worker program. But conservative Republicans attacked the legalization
program as an "amnesty" for law-breaking migrants, while liberal Democrats split
over the terms of the temporary-worker program. Comprehensive immigration
reform, as proponents dubbed it, failed to get the 60 votes necessary to move
through the Senate. Since then, nothing has shifted that political accounting,
not even the 2008 election, which changed so much else in Washington.

As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama promised to undertake comprehensive
reform during his first year but never really got into the details. After he
took office, he repeatedly postponed consideration of the issue, never fully
defining his position while blaming Republicans for blocking progress.
Meanwhile, congressional Democrats, with no one to replace their longtime leader
on immigration, the late senator Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.), never quite managed
to resolve the differences that divided them in 2007 or come up with a new
proposal. The result was a vacuum, and Arizona filled it.

Immigration had practically fallen out of the public discourse and the news
media until Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed the measure on April 23. Then the
topic roared back, and the Obama administration's decision to oppose the law
guaranteed it the spotlight for a long time.

Through its lawsuit, the Obama administration has in effect said, "Immigration
is a federal issue; let us, not the states, handle it." If the Supreme Court
agrees, Obama will be morally and politically obliged to move aggressively on a
matter he has avoided. His reluctance so far is understandable: He has had other
priorities; there is no consensus within his party on key aspects of the issue;
and he has never taken a stand on the details that bedevil any effort at
consensus.

Moreover, immigration is his worst issue as far as the public is concerned. It
has consistently brought him the lowest approval ratings among nine issues Pew
regularly asks the public to rate his performance on -- with scores (25 percent
to 33 percent) comparable to those for Bush's handling of Hurricane Katrina. But
Obama may find himself campaigning for reelection based on how he handles
immigration.

If the courts end up backing Arizona and the states are authorized to get tough
on immigration, many Americans, especially those most anxious about the problem,
will be disappointed with the results. Arizona doesn't claim to have the power
to enact a full range of immigration policies, deciding who gets in, under what
terms and for how long. There is no chance that the courts would allow such a
sweeping grab of federal powers. The law's supporters insist that the state
merely wants the right to apply existing federal laws, using its own police and
its own tactics -- what they call "concurrent enforcement." But this doesn't
make sense. If the federal laws are fundamentally flawed, then no amount of
enforcement, no matter who does it, will solve the problem.

And everyone, starting with the folks most adamant about enforcement, agrees
that the laws are flawed. To begin with, there is no effective means to hold
employers accountable for hiring illegal workers. They can shrug when it turns
out that their employees had false papers. They can't be held at fault because
the country has repeatedly rejected a national ID card and other measures that
would allow an employer -- or anyone else -- to know with certainty that people
are who they say they are. Repeated enforcement actions by Washington over the
past 20 years have not cut the size of the undocumented population. Illegal
flows have followed the ups and downs of the unemployment rate, not the pace of
factory raids.

Regardless of how the court battle is resolved, the Arizona law's likely legacy
is a focus on enforcement in the next round of policymaking, plus long arguments
over the role of state and local cops. Effective enforcement that deters illegal
immigration is essential, but it may be easier to achieve as an outcome rather
than a starting point. This is not a semantic difference. Enforcement has been
the starting point for almost every immigration debate over the past 30 years,
and look where that's gotten us.

Close the "back door" to illegal immigration so that we can keep the "front
door" open to legal flows -- that's how the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, then
president of Notre Dame, summarized the recommendations of the congressionally
appointed commission on immigration reform that he chaired in 1981. The same
basic construct has guided the immigration debate in the United States ever
since. Our framework for thinking about immigration starts with the idea that
the country can be sealed and that government can stand at the entries deciding
who gets in. In the age of a globalized economy, we don't think about capital
that way, nor goods or commodities or information. Instead, we know there is a
constant interchange taking place across networks connecting many elements of
many societies. Government needs to police extreme behavior in those networks,
but it cannot control everything that enters and leaves the country. It needs
policies to shape the channels, not constant scrutiny of the transactions.

If you think about immigration in those terms -- as one more type of interchange
-- then you can envision long-term goals that enhance our global
competitiveness. We need to manage immigration as part of our relations with
sending countries such as Mexico, and we need to be deliberate about its impact
on our national identity. Then it isn't just a matter of deciding who gets into
the country. It requires a broader view, starting with the causes of migration
and stretching to policies that help migrants and their children integrate into
our society. Do this with an efficient bureaucracy, and such policies could
reduce the incentives behind illegal flows, easing the enforcement challenge.
That's the opposite of Hesburgh's prescription: Keep the front door open as part
of a broad engagement with the world, and not many people will need to come in
through the back door.

That's also the opposite of what Arizona proposes. The relentless focus on
catching people who aren't supposed to be here is bad enough; a long
marshals-vs.-sheriffs shootout is a dangerous distraction. No matter what kind
of new immigration system you want to build, lawsuits over who handles traffic
stops won't get you very far.

surorob@gmail.com

Roberto Suro is a professor at the University of Southern California's Annenberg
School for Communication and Journalism.   on washingtonpost.com 3 He will
discuss this article on Monday at noon at washingtonpost.com/liveonline. He will
be online Monday, Aug. 2, at Noon ET to chat. Submit your questions and comments
before or during the discussion. From the Outlook archives on the immigration
debate: "5 myths about immigration," "All-American, just not on paper," and "Why
good fences make bad policy."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Chip Somodevilla/getty Images; Arizona's new law has brought
immigration reform -- an issue President Obama promised to take up, but has so
far essentially avoided -- directly to his door. These young protesters
demonstrated in front of the White House last week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 1, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Arizona's immigration law goes before U.S. appeals court

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 795 words


The divisive issue of illegal immigration will take center stage briefly Monday
as the Obama administration returns to court in its effort to overturn Arizona's
controversial new immigration law.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit will hear Arizona's appeal of a
lower-court ruling that blocked the most-contested provisions of the law from
taking effect. The law, signed in April by Gov. Jan Brewer (R), empowers police
to question people whom they have a "reasonable suspicion" of being in the
country illegally.

Amid a fierce debate over the measure, the Justice Department sought to overturn
the law by taking the rare step of suing Arizona. Government attorneys won the
first round in July when U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton, seated in Phoenix,
put on hold provisions that would require police to check immigration status if
they stop someone while enforcing other laws, allow for warrantless arrests of
suspected illegal immigrants and criminalize the failure of legal immigrants to
carry their registration papers.

Civil rights groups and federal lawyers had objected to those provisions in
particular, while Arizona officials defended them as necessary to fight a tide
of illegal immigration. Bolton allowed other portions of the law to take effect,
including one making it a crime to stop a car to pick up day laborers.

Brewer, whose outspoken criticism of the federal lawsuit has helped her
popularity at home, has vowed to take her appeal of the ruling to the U.S.
Supreme Court. The 9th Circuit hearing in San Francisco is the next step, and
legal experts say the case likely will wind up before the high court within
several years.

The lawsuit ratcheted up the political and legal debate over the nation's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, with Republicans condemning the
administration and civil rights groups praising it for fighting a law that they
contend targets Hispanics.

Talk of immigration has receded somewhat in the runup to the elections,
especially compared to the economy, but it has been a key factor in a number of
races. Monday's argument, which Brewer plans to attend, will shine an even
brighter light on the issue.

Legal experts said Brewer's attorneys may face a difficult task because
appellate judges tend to defer to lower courts when reviewing an interim legal
step such as an injunction. The only issue Monday is whether to uphold Bolton's
order stopping parts of the law from taking effect while the federal lawsuit
proceeds. The law's constitutionality will be decided later.

"Appellate judges have a tendency not to muck around in the district court's
backfield too much,'' said Jonathan Benner, a Washington lawyer who has argued
numerous cases involving federal-state conflicts. "Unless the appeals court
believes that [Bolton] blew it, they are likely to uphold the injunction.''

It is also difficult to draw conclusions from the composition of the three-judge
panel hearing the case. Judges John T. Noonan Jr. and Carlos T. Bea are
appointees of Republican presidents, while judge Richard A. Pez is a Democratic
appointee.

But Bea and Paez are of Hispanic descent, and it is Hispanics who are most upset
about the Arizona law.

Legal briefs indicate that the two sides are likely to make arguments similar to
those they have advanced for months. The Justice Department says the Arizona
statute is "preempted" by federal law because immigration enforcement is solely
a federal prerogative.

The department sued, a Justice Department brief says, "to prevent the Arizona
law from interfering with the federal government's exclusive authority to
establish the Nation's immigration policy and priorities.''

Attorneys for Arizona wrote that the law was "carefully crafted" to ensure its
constitutionality and was necessary because the federal government has failed to
enforce immigration laws.

"The harm that Arizona and its citizens are suffering as a result of illegal
immigration is well documented and undisputed,'' the Arizona brief says. "The
district court's injunction cannot stand.''

More than 25 briefs were filed by other individuals and groups, reflecting the
national divide over the issue.

Eleven states, 10 of them with Republican attorneys general, weighed in on
Arizona's side, along with nearly 70 Republican members of Congress. Nearly 20
cities and counties nationwide are arguing on the administration's behalf, as is
the government of Mexico.

"Mexico has an interest in protecting its citizens and ensuring that their
ethnicity is not used as a basis for state-sanctioned acts of bias and
discrimination,'' that country's brief says.

It is not clear when the panel will issue its decision. The losing side can ask
the three judges to re-evaluate or seek review by the full 9th Circuit.

markonj@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The GOP's other Election Day victory

BYLINE: Lamar Smith

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 908 words


The conventional wisdom has already settled like a blanket over Washington.
Allegedly, Hispanics flocked to the polls to punish Republicans for the Arizona
immigration law. They "saved" the Senate for Democrats. And on and on. The
conventional wisdom, however, is wrong. The 2010 election actually paints a very
bright picture of the Republican Party's relations with this country's growing
Hispanic population.

Exit polls reported by CNN and updated this week reveal that a historically
robust 38 percent of Hispanic voters cast ballots for House Republican
candidates in 2010 - more than in 2006 (30 percent) and 2008 (29 percent). In
fact, since 1984, Republican House candidates have only won a higher percentage
of the Hispanic vote in one election: 2004. This level of Hispanic support for
Republican candidates came despite widespread pre-election claims by advocates
for illegal immigration that the Arizona law and a pro-rule-of-law stand would
undercut Hispanic support for Republicans.

Journalist Shikha Dalmia  admitted in Forbes that the 2010 election "casts
severe doubts" on the assumption that Hispanics will necessarily be advocates
for illegal immigration. "Anti-immigration sentiment," she wrote, is "driven by
economic and other fears that have to be addressed anew for every generation
regardless of its ethnic make-up."

Hispanics certainly share these fears with all other American workers, and
Hispanic workers face the impact of illegal immigration head-on. Among
native-born Hispanics without a high school degree, 35 percent are either
unemployed, are so discouraged that they have left the labor force or are forced
to work part time.

Many Hispanics indeed voted for the very Republican candidates most identified
as having a pro-enforcement or anti-amnesty stance. And these Republicans
generally did as well as, or better than, the Republicans running for the same
positions in the previous election. According to exit polls reported by CNN:

l   55 percent of Hispanic voters in Florida voted for Marco Rubio over Charlie
Crist and Kendrick Meek (compared with 41 percent for the Republican Senate
candidate in 2006);

l 50 percent voted for Rick Scott over Alex Sink for governor (compared with 49
percent voting for the Republican gubernatorial candidate in 2006);

l 38 percent voted for Rick Perry over Bill White for governor of Texas (up from
31 percent voting for Perry in 2006);

l 30 percent voted for Sharron Angle over Harry Reid in the Nevada Senate race
(compared with 27 percent voting for the Republican candidate against Reid in
2004);

l  29 percent voted for Carly Fiorina over Barbara Boxer in the California
Senate race (up from 23 percent for the Republican candidate against Boxer in
2004).

l   28 percent voted for Jan Brewer over Terry Goddard for governor of Arizona
(compared with 26 percent voting for the Republican candidate in the 2006
governor's race);

What about the much-trumpeted victories of Reid, Boxer, Gov.-elect Jerry Brown
(D-Calif.) and Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.)? Their Republican opponents lost
not because they underperformed among Hispanic voters but because they
underperformed among white voters. National exit polls reported by CNN indicated
that Republican U.S. House candidates received 60 percent of the white vote
overall. But Fiorina and Angle won only 52 percent of the white vote, Ken Buck
in Colorado won only 51 percent and California gubernatorial candidate Meg
Whitman won only 50 percent of the white vote. Had each received 60 percent of
the white vote, they all would have won

There was a story in the 2010 midterms that many in the media missed. Dalmia
found that "one of the hugely under-reported stories of this election is that
Republicans fielded far more minority candidates than Democrats - and they won
by touting a restrictionist agenda, proof positive that skin color - and even
immigration status - are not always correlated with [illegal] immigration
views."

Univision anchor Jorge Ramos, one of the most trusted commentators on
Spanish-language television, concluded that "the United States moved to the
right, and Latino politicians did so too - among them, a new generation of
Hispanic Republicans who support policies that are essentially opposed to the
undocumented immigrants in this country."

Who are these pro-rule-of-law Hispanic rising stars in the Republican Party?
Voters elected Susana Martinez governor of New Mexico, Brian Sandoval governor
of Nevada and Florida's Marco Rubio to the U.S. Senate. Bill Flores, Francisco
Canseco, Jaime Herrera, Raul Labrador and David Rivera went to the U.S. House of
Representatives.

Even the pro-amnesty advocacy group America's Voice admitted that "Republicans
can celebrate their victories, and hold up Rubio, Martinez and Sandoval as
evidence that Republicans aren't anti-Hispanic because they can get Latino
Republicans elected in states with large Hispanic populations."

On many of the most important issues of our day - jobs, education, support for
small businesses and the economy - the Republican positions line up with
Hispanic values. Republican approaches to better education, small businesses and
job creation demonstrate that the GOP will put policy over politics when it
comes to Hispanic outreach. The right way to attract Hispanic support is to
emphasize our shared values.

The writer, a representative from Texas's 21st District, is the ranking
Republican on the House Judiciary Committee.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Officials across border denounce the new law

BYLINE: William Booth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Felipe  CalderÃ³n on Monday  vigorously condemned a tough new
immigration law in Arizona that requires police to question anyone who appears
to be in the country illegally -- a measure CalderÃ³n said "opens the door to
intolerance and hatred."

Under the new law, signed by Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) on Friday, legal
immigrants will be required to carry documents proving their status. Police will
question anyone they "reasonably suspect" of being undocumented, and illegal
immigrants could be detained and handed over to federal authorities. The law
takes effect in 90 days. Brewer said the costs of uncontrolled illegal
immigration and the lack of enforcement by the federal government forced her
state to act on its own.

Mexican officials reacted with swift and near-universal condemnation, warning
that the law could harm trade, tourism and bilateral relations. The U.S.-Mexico
border is the busiest in the world, with approximately 350 million crossings per
year. Daily two-way movement of goods amounts to about $1 billion, according to
the U.S. Department of Commerce.

Mexico's health minister, JosÃ© Ãngel CÃ³rdova, who is widely credited with
stemming the global spread of swine flu, called it "a discriminatory law,
abominable for us."

JosÃ© Guadalupe Osuna MillÃ¡n, the governor of the Mexican state of Baja
California, which abuts California, warned that the law "could disrupt the
indispensable economic, political and cultural exchanges of the entire border
region."

A senator and a leader of the center-right National Action Party, Josefina
VÃ¡zquez Mota, said the Arizona law would mean "the criminalization of all
Mexicans."

CalderÃ³n called the Arizona law "a violation of human rights" and promised it
would be at the top of his agenda when he comes to Washington in May to meet
with President Obama, who has called the Arizona measure "misguided."

CalderÃ³n said he was instructing Mexico's foreign ministry and consulates in
the United States to organize and work with a network of lawyers to defend the
rights of Mexicans.

Top officials in Mexico are usually publicity shy about U.S. legislation. They
have been quietly pushing for sweeping federal immigration reform, which would
include a path to legal residency, but they speak a vague diplomatic language
that calls for "respect" and "dignity" for illegal migrants, while pointing out
their contributions to both the U.S. and Mexican economies. Mexicans working
abroad sent home last year more than $20 billion, the country's second leading
source of foreign capital after oil sales.

CalderÃ³n acknowledged that his citizens went north because Mexico lacks
opportunity, and that immigration should be regulated. But he also said, "It
would be difficult to imagine the growth and prosperity of the United States in
the 20th century without the contributions of Mexican workers."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration's moral crossroads

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 782 words


Arizona's new immigration law is understandable -- and dreadful.

Few Americans would happily tolerate living near a porous border with a failed
state, or, in this case, a Mexican state that has failed in certain lawless
regions. Portions of the border have descended into an arid state of nature -- a
vacuum of authority filled by drug gangs, human traffickers, roving vigilantes
and desperate migrants who sometimes die in the desert or in drainage ditches.
It is offensive to find such chaos under the American flag.

This is an argument for effective border enforcement. It is also an argument for
a guest-worker program that permits an orderly, regulated flow of temporary,
migrant laborers, allowing border authorities to focus on more urgent crimes
than those resulting from the desire to provide for one's family.

But chaos at the border is not an argument for states to take control of
American immigration policy -- an authority that Arizona has seized in order to
abuse.

American states have broad powers. But they are not permitted their own foreign
or immigration policy. One reason is that immigration law concerns not only the
treatment of illegal immigrants but also the proper treatment of American
citizens. And here the Arizona law fails badly.

Under the law, police must make a "reasonable attempt" to verify the immigration
status of people they encounter when there is a "reasonable suspicion" they
might be illegal. Those whose citizenship can't be verified can be arrested. But
how is such reasonable suspicion aroused? The law forbids the use of race or
ethnicity as the "sole" basis for questioning. So what are the other telltale
indicators?

Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the law, looked flustered when asked during a news
conference the obvious question of how illegal immigrants might be identified.
"I do not know what an illegal immigrant looks like," Brewer replied. "I can
tell you that I think that there are people in Arizona that assume they know
what an illegal immigrant looks like. I don't know if they know that for a fact
or not." Yet Brewer has ordered Arizona police to be trained in the warning
signs of illegality -- signs that she cannot describe. There is a reason no
Arizona official has publicly detailed these standards -- because the
descriptions would sound like racial stereotyping. And probably would be.

This law creates a suspect class, based in part on ethnicity, considered guilty
until they prove themselves innocent. It makes it harder for illegal immigrants
to live without scrutiny -- but it also makes it harder for some American
citizens to live without suspicion and humiliation. Americans are not accustomed
to the command "Your papers, please," however politely delivered. The distinctly
American response to such a request would be "Go to hell," and then "See you in
court."

The government of Arizona, it turns out, has been ambushed by its own
legislature. If this vague law is applied vigorously, the state will be
regularly sued by citizens who are wrongfully stopped. But if the law is not
applied vigorously enough, it contains a provision allowing citizens to sue any
agency or official who "limits or restricts the enforcement of federal
immigration laws." Either way, lawyers rejoice.

The Arizona law -- like others before it -- does have one virtue. It sorts
Republicans according to their political and moral seriousness. By the
mid-1990s, California had experienced an exponential growth in illegal
immigration that strained public services. Gov. Pete Wilson responded by
supporting Proposition 187, which denied schooling and non-emergency medical
care to undocumented children and adults. Doctors and teachers were required to
report anyone they suspected of being illegal immigrants.

The resulting debate revealed a gap in judgment. Wilson rode ethnically based
resentment to reelection -- while alienating Latinos in large numbers, driving
the state Republican Party into irrelevance and earning the general contempt of
history. Republican leaders such as Jack Kemp and then-Gov. George W. Bush of
Texas (I have worked for both men) fought the political current, opposed
Proposition 187-like restrictions and gained in stature over time.

A similar test can be applied concerning the Arizona law. For the record, former
governor  Mike Huckabee of Arkansas says: "There is no such thing" as being
"American-looking." Florida Republican Senate candidate Marco Rubio says the law
could "unreasonably single out people who are here legally." California
Republican gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman has come out against the Arizona
law. Republicans wishing to gain some everlasting credit should join them.

mgerson@globalengage.org

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Suing Arizona;
A lawsuit is just a start on accepting immigration responsibility.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 352 words


AS A MATTER of policy, President Obama was right earlier this year to criticize
a harsh new immigration law in Arizona as "misguided." On Tuesday, the Justice
Department was right to challenge it as a matter of law.

The Arizona legislation, which was signed in April and scheduled to go into
effect at the end of this month, requires police officers to check the
immigration status of those who are lawfully stopped if there is "reasonable
suspicion" that they are in the country illegally. The law also makes it a crime
for undocumented workers to seek employment and authorizes private citizens to
sue state agencies that do not enforce the  law.

States are free to determine most laws and policies within their borders -- even
if the results are reprehensible and shortsighted. What they cannot do is pass
laws that trump or ignore the federal government. The Justice Department suit,
filed in Phoenix federal court, correctly calls Arizona on this breach, noting
that the Constitution and Congress have vested the federal government -- not the
states -- with exclusive authority to establish immigration and nationality
laws. The Obama administration argues convincingly that allowing states to set
their own policy toward immigration could harm U.S. foreign policy and lead to
highly disparate treatment of immigrants from state to state.

It's easy to understand the frustration of people in Arizona who decided to take
matters into their own legislative hands. Congress for years has ignored
practical realities and succumbed to xenophobia and fear-mongering to derail
efforts to craft sensible immigration reforms. It's fine to claim a right to
"preempt" state law, but that right comes with a responsibility to do the job.
The federal government has improved border security; now it needs to provide a
pathway for citizenship for those who entered illegally but have otherwise been
productive members of society.

President Obama has promised to take up the challenge of immigration reform, but
promising action while suing Arizona isn't good enough. The White House and
Congress need to step in to fill the void.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Lawsuit won't deter push for Va. to copy Ariz. immigration law;
Prince William leader says legislation is worth risk of federal action

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ12

LENGTH: 423 words


The Justice Department's lawsuit against Arizona's controversial immigration law
won't stop Prince William Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A.
Stewart's campaign to bring a similar law to Virginia.

If anything, said Stewart (R-At Large), he will push harder to get legislation
passed at the state level that would enhance police officials' power to capture,
detain and deport illegal immigrants and create specific Virginia penalties for
illegal immigrants.

"I think the Obama administration has made a strategic blunder," Stewart said.
"The Justice Department is going to have egg on its face when its case is
dismissed. Arizona is on very firm legal footing, and the administration is just
trying to intimidate Arizona."

Last month, Stewart launched the Virginia Rule of Law Campaign to rally support
for Virginia immigration legislation. Stewart said Virginia needs to follow in
Arizona's footsteps, even if it sends President Obama's administration after the
commonwealth.

"I hope the Justice Department sues Virginia, as well," he said. "I hope they
have so many targets that they are unable to focus on Arizona. . . . Every state
that supports Arizona should implement a similar law to make it impossible for
the [federal government] to focus on any one state or jurisdiction."

Prince William has received national attention for its crackdown on illegal
immigration. The county's law, enacted in 2007 and modified in 2008, requires
that police officers check the immigration status of all people arrested on
suspicion of violating a state or local law. Stewart said his campaign for a
Virginia law is his own, not something he is doing as chairman of the board.

"I think this is very irresponsible of someone who has lived in the county and
seen the kind of devastation this kind of legislation can cause," said Nancy
Lyall of the immigrant advocacy group Mexicans Without Borders.

Lyall said Prince William's immigration law hurt the county by damaging the
relationship between police and some community members, draining county funds
and harming businesses as people fled the county. Why, she asked, would Stewart
want that to happen at the state level?

Although Virginia is strapped for cash, Stewart said a lawsuit and the money it
could cost would be worth it. Stewart said he plans to release his proposed bill
in the next few days. Many people have supported Arizona's actions, Stewart
said, and he expects the same in Virginia. As of Friday, he had about 500 people
following his Virginia Rule of Law Campaign page on Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Judge blocks some sections of Arizona law;
A victory for Justice Dept. Governor vows to take case to Supreme Court

BYLINE: Jerry Markon and Stephanie McCrummen

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1014 words


A federal judge on Wednesday blocked the most contested provisions of Arizona's
new immigration law one day before they were to take effect, ratcheting up the
legal and political debate over the increasingly divisive issue.

U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton's ruling handed the Obama administration a
key initial victory in its lawsuit against Arizona and Gov. Jan Brewer (R). It
also set up a legal struggle that is likely to play out over several years and
across numerous states, with Brewer vowing to take the case to the U.S. Supreme
Court and legal experts saying the high court is likely to hear it.

In her decision, Bolton accepted the Justice Department's argument that the law
-- which empowers police to question people who they have a "reasonable
suspicion" are illegal immigrants -- intrudes into federal immigration
enforcement. She granted much of an injunction the administration had sought,
blocking portions of the law from taking effect while the federal lawsuit
proceeds.

The judge put on hold provisions that would require police to check immigration
status if they stop someone while enforcing other laws, allow for warrantless
arrests of suspected illegal immigrants and criminalize the failure of
immigrants to carry registration papers. Civil rights groups and federal lawyers
had objected to those provisions in particular, while Arizona officials defended
them as necessary to fight a tide of illegal immigration.

"Requiring Arizona law enforcement officials and agencies to determine the
immigration status of every person who is arrested burdens lawfully present
aliens because their liberty will be restricted while their status is checked,"
wrote Bolton, a Democratic appointee, who allowed other, less-controversial
portions of the law to take effect Thursday as scheduled.

The injunction is preliminary and does not guarantee that the administration
will prevail in its effort over the next several months to have the entire law
declared unconstitutional. But preliminary injunctions must meet a high legal
standard, and Bolton specified that the government "is likely to succeed on the
merits" of much of its argument.

"The judge is sending a signal to the state: 'You're going to have a tough
time,' " said Jonathan Benner, a Washington lawyer who has argued numerous cases
involving federal-state conflicts.

Yet even as the contours of the legal case, which the Justice Department filed
July 6, became more clear, the political din over the nation's estimated 12
million illegal immigrants grew louder. Republicans condemned Bolton's decision
and what they called the administration's failure to fight illegal immigration.
They were led by Brewer, who also criticized unspecified "fear-mongers, those
dealing in hate" and others who have spurred economic boycotts of the state.

"I will battle all the way to the Supreme Court, if necessary," said Brewer,
whose popularity has increased ahead of her reelection bid this fall. She vowed
to appeal Bolton's ruling Thursday to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th
Circuit and to ask for an expedited review. Experts said that full court, which
is controlled by a 15 to 10 Democratic-appointed majority, is unlikely to side
with Arizona.

The Supreme Court -- with a working conservative majority -- accepts a fraction
of appeals but may take this case because it presents a conflict of federal and
state law, said Cristina Rodriguez, an expert on immigration and constitutional
law at New York University Law School.

Legislatures in 17 states have introduced bills like the Arizona law, with the
political climate in Utah, Oklahoma and South Carolina relatively favorable for
passage. South Carolina state Sen. Larry Martin (R), who co-sponsored that
state's legislation, said the ruling will not deter him. "We're still early in
the innings of a major legal contest," he said.

In Arizona, opponents of the law who had been planning campaigns of civil
disobedience on Thursday said they were pleased with the injunction. And
Cecillia Wang, a lawyer for the ACLU -- which along with other civil rights
groups filed one of six other lawsuits against Arizona -- said the judge had
stopped "key egregious portions of the law."

"This is an enormous victory for civil liberties in Arizona," she said.

Hannah August, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said lawyers believe the court
"ruled correctly" and added: "This administration takes its responsibility to
secure our borders seriously and has dedicated unprecedented resources to that
effort."

Her message was echoed at the Department of Homeland Security, where spokesman
Matt Chandler vowed to increase resources in Arizona, with about 500 National
Guard troops set to arrive Sunday along with hundreds of additional U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents.

The White House has sought to remain at arm's length from the Arizona case,
despite President Obama's public statements against the law. The president did
not mention the ruling in remarks Wednesday afternoon.

But the White House recognizes the power of the immigration debate in elections
this fall as Republicans use anger over border crossings to energize
conservative turnout. Senior Democrats have said they are hoping that
anti-immigration sentiment drives Latino voters to the Democratic Party in 2012
and beyond.

In her 36-page ruling, Bolton indicated that she understands why Arizona passed
the law, which Brewer signed in April. "The Court by no means disregards
Arizona's interests in controlling illegal immigration," the judge wrote. But
she accepted the administration's arguments that sections of the law target
immigrants, impose a burden on federal law enforcement and are "preempted" by
federal law.

The expected increase in requests for immigration status checks by Arizona
authorities would "divert resources from the federal government's other
responsibilities and priorities," wrote Bolton, who allowed other portions of
the law to stand, including requiring police to work with federal officials in
enforcing immigration laws.

Staff writer Michael D. Shear contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; John Moore/getty Images; In Phoenix, opponents of Arizona's new
immigration law celebrate the ruling.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Arizona appeals ruling on immigration law;
PROTESTS BRING ARRESTS Governor says she 'will not back down'

BYLINE: Jerry Markon and Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 845 words


Hundreds of opponents of Arizona's new immigration law swarmed the streets of
downtown Phoenix Thursday, confronting police in riot gear as the state's
governor filed an urgent appeal of a judge's ruling that prevented key portions
of the law from taking effect.

Condemning what they called the "terrorizing" of Hispanics, protesters blockaded
a jail and marched to the offices of Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, known
for his aggressive stance on illegal immigrants.  The sheriff vowed a "crime
sweep" targeting illegal immigrants but later postponed the raids. At least 17
protesters were arrested.

With the case's future uncertain, the demonstrations illustrated that tensions
over the state's immigration crackdown may only have been heightened by U.S.
District Judge Susan Bolton's ruling Wednesday in the Obama administration's
lawsuit against Arizona. Bolton temporarily blocked the law's most controversial
sections, but protesters objected to other provisions that she allowed to take
effect on Thursday.

A day after Bolton's decision riveted attention on illegal immigration, it was
clear that the increasingly divisive debate is spreading nationwide.

Similar bills

Nearly 20 states have introduced bills similar to the Arizona law, and nine
states with Republican attorneys general are planning to file appellate briefs
supporting Arizona. Immigration is a key theme in this fall's midterm elections;
at the same time conservative candidates are attacking what they say is the
Obama administration's aggressive expansion of government.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R), whose fierce criticism of the federal lawsuit has
helped her popularity at home, on Thursday appealed Bolton's ruling to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. Urging the court to quickly hear the case,
she vowed that she "will not back down." The Justice Department, whose lawsuit
against Arizona was a rare federal challenge of a state law, declined to
comment.

If the political reactions to Bolton's decision were predictable, the legal path
forward was not. The 9th Circuit has a liberal reputation, and court officials
said the case will be heard by a "motions panel" designed for urgent appeals.
The panel this month consists of three judges who, like Bolton, were appointed
by Democratic presidents.

But if the panel's decision is appealed to the full 9th Circuit, 10 of the 11
judges will be chosen by a random computerized draw. The 11th jurist will be
Chief Judge Alex Kozinski, a Republican appointee.

Although many legal experts believe the case is ultimately headed to the Supreme
Court, it is unclear at what point in the process that might happen. If the 9th
Circuit upholds Bolton's preliminary injunction, experts said it is unlikely the
high court would disturb such a ruling until the case over the law is decided.

The Supreme Court already has one Arizona immigration challenge on its fall
docket. It has agreed to hear a case brought by an unusual coalition of business
groups and civil rights organizations seeking to overturn a separate state law
that revokes the business licenses of employers who hire illegal immigrants.

The Justice Department filed suit July 6, seeking to overturn the newer and more
comprehensive Arizona immigration law, which Brewer signed in April. The law
empowers police to question people whom they have a "reasonable suspicion" are
illegal immigrants. Federal lawyers argued that it intruded into exclusive
federal immigration enforcement.

In her ruling Wednesday, Bolton put on hold -- while the lawsuit proceeds --
sections of the law that have drawn the most opposition from civil rights
groups. They include provisions that would require police to check immigration
status if they stop someone while enforcing other laws, allow for warrantless
arrests of suspected illegal immigrants and criminalize the failure of
immigrants to carry registration papers. She allowed other portions to take
effect, including one making it a crime to stop  a car to pick up day laborers.

'Irreparable harm'

Brewer's lawyers argued in their appeal that the injunction violates "Arizona's
right to implement a law its Legislature enacted to address the irreparable harm
Arizona is suffering as a result of unchecked unlawful immigration." Court
officials said an initial ruling could come within days.

In the other Arizona case being considered by the Supreme Court, the Obama
administration had urged the court to set aside the 2007 law sanctioning
employers who hire illegal immigrants. That case presented a sticky situation
for the administration: The law was signed by then-Gov. Janet Napolitano, who is
now homeland security secretary. Her statement then is at odds with the
government's arguments now that the state has no role in immigration
enforcement.

"Immigration is a federal responsibility, but I signed HB 2779 because it is now
abundantly clear that Congress finds itself incapable of coping with the
comprehensive immigration reforms our country needs," Napolitano said at the
time.

Staff writer Stephanie McCrummen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mark Ralston/agence France-presse Via Getty Images; Police
arrested at least 17 protesters in demonstrations against Arizona's new
immigration law. Demonstrators in Phoenix staged a sit-in and blocked traffic
and marched to the offices of Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, known for his
aggressive tactics against illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

An immigration crisis that isn't;
Enforcement is working. Now let's look at what's not.

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 747 words


Forget the hyperventilated furor over the new Arizona immigration law and
consider this overlooked fact: The number of illegal immigrants getting into the
country has slowed to a relative trickle.

And more have left than are coming in. The number of unauthorized immigrants in
the country has gone from an estimated high of 12.5 million in 2007 to 10.8
million in this year's first quarter and is still dropping, according to experts
in the Census Bureau, the Department of Homeland Security and some think tanks.

The illegal immigration crisis, in other words, is easing -- and is not really a
crisis, except in the eyes of activists, political opportunists and breathless
media.

Conventional wisdom notwithstanding, the main reason for the decline in
unauthorized immigration is probably not the temporary phenomenon of the
recession. If this were so, demand for work or residence visas would be down,
and it is not. And Mexico, the source of nearly six out of every 10 undocumented
immigrants, is suffering an even worse recession than the United States.

No, a major -- if not the main -- reason for the drop is that enforcement is
working, something that many pro-immigration activists hate to admit and that
restrictionists refuse to recognize.

After  the dangerous overreaction in Arizona, what we need now is for everyone
to calm down. The best thing that could happen would be if responsible
Republican and Democratic leaders -- and there are many -- tuned out all the
noise and started a discussion over who we want to admit into our country and
what kind of country we want it to be. Only two basic premises should guide our
response to illegal immigration: what is best for America and what works.

The anger in Arizona and elsewhere may be partly understandable, but someone
among our leaders has to tell people that their feelings don't fit the facts and
to -- yes -- trust the government. It has been doing a pretty good job gearing
up to meet the immigration challenge under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack
Obama.

Just look at the numbers.

How many unauthorized immigrants are still coming in is what's most important.
This reflects the direction of the trends and the control we have over both our
borders and people who overstay their visas. Remember: The United States
historically has had few immigration controls. In 1979, when as a reporter I
snuck across the border with a group of Mexicans, there was a laughably small
force of fewer than 2,000 Border Patrol agents covering the 2,000-mile frontier
with Mexico.

Today, the Border Patrol is 20,000 strong, supplemented by high-tech gadgetry
and hundreds of miles of barriers. The Pew Hispanic Center reports that the
number of Mexicans who managed to get through in the year ending in March 2009
was 175,000, the lowest number since 1970 and down from roughly 650,000 in 2005.
The Border Patrol reports that apprehensions, a rough measure of traffic, were
down nearly 70 percent last year from 2000.

Smugglers were paid $50 when I crossed. The cost is now $3,000 or more, itself a
deterrent that reflects the difficulty.

Internally, deportations have skyrocketed, to between 230,000 and 390,000
annually for the past three years. The purpose is to deport those who have
committed crimes, and while Homeland Security has deviated too far from this
mission, it expects to expel 150,000 convicted criminals this year.

On crime, meanwhile, despite public fears, studies show that unauthorized
immigrants commit violent crimes at a rate of four to eight times less than
American citizens.

In Arizona, Homeland Security estimates that the number of illegal immigrants
declined to 460,000 last year from a high of 550,000 and continues to drop,
despite its deserts being among the last major gaps for crossers. Arizona's
crime problem is really drug trafficking, a separate issue altogether.

Arizona, however, is a leader in an increasingly effective national movement
with the federal government in cracking down on the employers of unauthorized
immigrants and turning off the jobs magnet.

Enforcement will never be enough to end illegal immigration. We need legal
channels so that temporary immigrant workers can fill our job demands, which is
why we need comprehensive reform now. Part of that economic need -- and our
moral and financial well-being -- is to legalize the ones who are here, too.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ross D. Franklin/associated Press; U.S. Border Patrol detains a
group of suspected illegal immigrants at the Arizona-Mexico border.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

For migrants, a dangerous trip through Mexico;
Robbery, rape and kidnappings are called common as criminal gangs prey on
undocumented travelers

BYLINE: William Booth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1064 words

DATELINE: IXTEPEC, MEXICO


As the Mexican government condemns a new immigration law in Arizona as cruel and
xenophobic, illegal migrants passing through Mexico are routinely robbed, raped
and kidnapped by  criminal gangs that often work alongside corrupt police,
according to human rights advocates.

Immigration experts and Catholic priests who shelter the travelers say that
Mexico's strict laws to protect the rights of illegal migrants are often ignored
and that undocumented migrants from Central America face a brutal passage
through the country.  They are stoned by angry villagers, who fear that the
Central Americans will bring crime or disease, and are fleeced by hustlers.
Mexican police and authorities often demand bribes.

Mexico detained and deported more than 64,000 illegal migrants last year,
according to the National Migration Institute. A few years ago, Mexico detained
200,000 undocumented migrants.  The lower numbers are the result of tougher
enforcement on the U.S. border, the global economic slowdown and, say some
experts, the robbery and assaults migrants face in Mexico.

The National Commission on Human Rights, a government agency, estimates that
20,000 migrants are kidnapped each year in Mexico.

While  held for ransom, increasingly at the hands of Mexico's powerful drug
cartels, many migrants are tortured -- threatened with execution, beaten with
bats and submerged in buckets of water or excrement.

"They put a plastic bag over your head and you can't breathe. They tell you if
you don't give them the phone numbers" of family members the kidnappers can call
to demand payment for a migrant's release, "they say the next time we'll just
let you die," said Jose Alirio Luna Moreno, a broad-shouldered young man from El
Salvador, interviewed at a shelter in the southern state of Oaxaca.

Luna said he was held for three days this month in Veracruz by the Zeta drug
trafficking organization, which demanded $1,000 to set him free. He said he was
abducted by men in police uniforms and taken to a safe house with 26 others.

'Epidemic' in kidnappings

Of the 64,000 migrants detained and expelled by Mexico last year, the Mexican
government granted only 20 humanitarian visas, which would have allowed them to
stay in Mexico while they testified and pressed charges against their
assailants.

"We have a government in Mexico that emphatically criticizes the new immigration
law -- which is perfectly valid, to criticize a law with widespread consequences
-- but at the same time doesn't have the desire to address the same problem
within its own borders," said Alberto Herrera, executive director of Amnesty
International in Mexico.

"The violations in human rights that migrants from Central America face in
Mexico are far worse than Mexicans receive in the United States," said Jorge
Bustamante of the University of Notre Dame and the College of the Border in
Tijuana, who has reported on immigration in Mexico for the United Nations.

U.N. officials describe the kidnapping of illegal migrants in Mexico as
"epidemic" in scope.

"We have definitely begun to see a greater degree of violence in the shipping of
migrants north to the United States," said Juan Carlos Calleros AlarcÃ³n, a
director of policy at the National Migration Institute, which is responsible for
detaining and deporting illegal visitors.

He said  local authorities appear to be involved in the kidnappings.

The migrants are preyed on by roving gangs that operate along the Guatemalan
border. Once in Mexico, many migrants ride on dangerous freight trains to bypass
immigration checkpoints. Local police, taxi drivers and city officials often
demand bribes or deliver them to kidnappers, according to the migrants and
research by government and human rights workers.

Amnesty International says that as many as six in 10 women experience sexual
violence during the journey.

Mexican government officials stress that only a handful of complaints are filed
against federal immigration agents. The government has sped up the process of
returning illegal migrants to their countries. Detention centers are newly built
buildings; the migrants ride home in air-conditioned buses.

At a meeting Wednesday, Interior Minister Fernando Gomez Mont, the U.S.
ambassador and the governors of the southern Mexican states pledged to work
harder to protect migrants.

Like 'merchandise'

The small city of Ixtepec in the humid hills of Oaxaca is a crossroads for
illegal migrants moving north on trains. At the edge of town, along the tracks
at a shelter for migrants run by the Catholic church, 100 migrants slept on
cardboard in the shade, waiting for an afternoon meal, before they move on.

Sergio Alejandro Barillas Perez, a Guatemalan at the shelter, said he was
kidnapped in the gulf state of Veracruz this month and held for three days by
men who said they worked for the Zetas.

He said his kidnappers demanded $10,000 for him and his girlfriend. "They told
me if you don't give us the phone numbers, we'll kill your girlfriend," said
Barillas, whose face was still bruised. "We were all in a house, a normal house.
When they beat us, they would put a rag in our mouths and they turned on the
music, loud, like they're having a party."

He said the kidnappers knocked out his girlfriend's teeth and dragged her away.
He and others escaped. He said he does not know what happened to his girlfriend.

"These migrants aren't people -- they are merchandise to the mafias, who traffic
drugs, weapons, sex and migrants," said Alejandro Solalinde, the Catholic priest
who runs the Brothers of the Road shelter in Ixtepec. "They suck everything out
of them."

The priest said that federal authorities do not protect the migrants and that
local officials also look the other way, or take their cut from the robbers and
traffickers.

Solalinde has battled local authorities who want to shut down his shelter, which
feeds as many as 66,000 passing migrants in a year. More than 100 were at the
shelter last week.

The priest said many Mexicans are distrustful of the outsiders. In 2008,
townspeople became enraged when a Nicaraguan man who was living in Ixtepec was
accused of raping a young girl. As police and the mayor were outside the gates
at the shelter, Solalinde said, 100 angry protesters got inside.

"They had stones and sticks and gasoline," the priest said. "They wanted to burn
us down."

Researcher Michael E. Miller in Mexico City contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Luis Acosta/afp/getty Images; Salvadoran migrants rest
at a shelter as they wait in Lecheria, north of Mexico City, for a train that
can take them to the U.S. border.
IMAGE; Migrants run to jump on a train. It is estimated that 20,000 migrants in
Mexico are kidnapped annually.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Justice Dept. sues Arizona over law;
Unusual clash with a state Immigration measure called unconstitutional

BYLINE: Jerry Markon and Michael D. Shear

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1064 words


The Obama administration sued Arizona over the state's new immigration law on
Tuesday, an assertion of federal power that sets up a rare clash with a state on
one of the nation's most divisive political issues.

The Justice Department lawsuit charges that the Arizona law cracking down on
illegal immigrants conflicts with federal law, would disrupt immigration
enforcement and would lead to police harassment of those who cannot prove their
lawful status. Filed in federal court in Arizona, it says the state's measure is
unconstitutional and asks a judge to stop it from taking effect.

"The Constitution and the federal immigration laws do not permit the development
of a patchwork of state and local immigration policies throughout the country,"
the lawsuit says.

The Arizona law, signed by Gov. Jan Brewer (R) in April, gives police the power
to question anyone who they have a "reasonable suspicion" is an illegal
immigrant.

In challenging a state law, federal lawyers stepped squarely into the
politically charged debate over how to handle the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants. Reaction to the suit poured in from all sides, much of it
blistering, making it clear that this was no ordinary legal filing but rather
the start of a battle that will help define the midterm elections this fall.

"Not only does this lawsuit reveal the Obama administration's contempt for
immigration laws and the people of Arizona, it reveals contempt for the majority
of the American people who support Arizona's efforts," 20 House Republicans said
in a letter to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who administration officials
said decided last week to challenge the law. President Obama, who had voiced
strong opposition to the legislation, was briefed in the past few days,
officials said.

The administration disavowed any political calculus, with one senior Justice
Department official saying: "We're charged not with doing what's popular or
partisan or political, but doing what we think is right."

But other Democrats suggested that the legal fight could play to their advantage
by placing them on the side of Hispanics, the nation's fastest-growing minority.
Though most polls show the Arizona law is broadly popular, leading Hispanic
groups and politicians have condemned it.

"There is probably some short-term pain politically," said one senior Democratic
strategist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to
publicly contradict the administration. "But considering the demographic changes
the country is undergoing, long term there is a lot of upside in advocating for
Latinos and comprehensive immigration reform."

Criticism on civil rights

Civil rights groups call Arizona's statute the nation's toughest law against
illegal immigrants and say it targets Hispanics, though the legislation says
police "may not consider race, color or national origin" in seeking to determine
immigration status.

At least five other lawsuits have been filed in federal court -- by civil rights
groups and others -- challenging the law, which is scheduled to take effect July
29. Hearings are set for July 15 and July 22 in those cases, and Justice
Department officials said they expect a hearing around the same time on their
motion asking a judge to issue a preliminary injunction blocking the law.

Justice officials cited two other examples of the federal government suing a
state, including a 2007 lawsuit by the Bush administration challenging an
Illinois law that tried to prevent employers from using an online system to
determine immigration status. But legal experts said such a step is exceedingly
rare.

"It's quite extraordinary," said Richard D. Friedman, a law professor at the
University of Michigan. Typically, he said, the government files briefs or seeks
to intervene in lawsuits filed by others against state statutes.

In their 25-page complaint, Justice lawyers cite the legal doctrine of
"preemption," which is based on the Constitution's supremacy clause and says
federal law trumps state statutes. Because the federal government has
"preeminent authority to regulate immigration matters," the lawsuit argues, the
Arizona law must be struck down.

A practical argument

Beyond the legal prose, the government tries to make a practical argument: that
the Arizona law would unduly burden federal agencies charged with immigration
enforcement. With Arizona referring so many illegal immigrants for deportation,
the lawsuit says, federal officials would lose focus on top-priority targets
such as immigrants involved in terrorism or other crimes.

The suit also claims that the law would burden local law enforcement officials,
three of whom provided declarations in support of the challenge. "To require
local police to act as immigration agents . . . is not realistic," wrote Tucson
Police Chief Roberto VillaseÃ±or.

Although the lawsuit cites potential "detention and harassment" of U.S. citizens
and immigrants who do not carry identification documents, it declines to make a
legal argument that the law would lead to racial profiling. But a senior Justice
Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that if the
law takes effect, "we will monitor it very, very closely, and if we become aware
of any racial profiling or civil rights violations, that's something that we
would take action on.''

Peter Spiro, a Temple University law professor and an expert on preemption, said
that the government makes "a strong argument" but that the case "could go either
way." Although the preemption doctrine has been established in Supreme Court
decisions, he said, "there is precedent on both sides of the question."

Brewer called the lawsuit "nothing more than a massive waste of taxpayer funds,"
a sentiment also expressed by other Republicans. "The American people must
wonder whether the Obama administration is really committed to securing the
border when it sues a state that is simply trying to protect its people by
enforcing immigration law," John McCain and Jon Kyl, Arizona's senators, said in
a statement.

Liberal groups were equally fervent. "We commend the Obama administration for
taking this critical step to negate Arizona's unconstitutional usurpation of
federal authority and its invitation to racial profiling," said Lucas Guttentag,
head of the ACLU Immigrants' Rights Project.

Staff researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

3 other states weighing tough immigration bills;
Despite lawsuit, Okla., S.C. and Utah may follow Arizona's lead

BYLINE: Michael W. Savage

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 781 words


Attention is focused on Arizona and the federal government's challenge to the
state's strict new immigration law, but three other states could adopt similar
legislation next year.

Lawmakers in Oklahoma, South Carolina and Utah, which have already taken steps
against illegal immigration, say that Arizona-style measures have a realistic
chance of passing when their legislatures reconvene in 2011.

The Obama administration sued Arizona in federal court Tuesday, charging that
the state law usurps federal authority, would hamper immigration enforcement and
would lead to police harassment of those who have no proof of lawful status. The
government asked that a federal judge stop the law from taking effect July 29.

Legislators in at least 17 other states introduced bills this year similar to
the Arizona law, which allows officers to question anyone they suspect of being
in the country illegally. But most of those measures are not considered likely
to be adopted or signed by governors.

The political climate in Oklahoma, South Carolina and Utah, however, improves
the chances that state legislatures there could follow Arizona's lead in 2011.

In 2007, Oklahoma led the way on such laws by adopting legislation that makes it
a felony to knowingly transport or shelter an illegal immigrant. It also blocked
illegal immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses and in-state tuition.

State Rep. Randy Terrill (R), who sponsored the measure, has expressed a desire
to go beyond the Arizona law when he introduces a bill next year that would
seize property from businesses that knowingly employ illegal immigrants.

Terrill cited the arrest last week of an alleged Mexican drug cartel member in
Oklahoma as evidence that an "Arizona-plus" measure is needed urgently. He said
the effect of Arizona's law has been to push illegal immigrants "straight down
Interstate 40" toward Oklahoma.

Vivek Malhotra, advocacy and policy counsel for the American Civil Liberties
Union, said the administration's decision to sue Arizona could discourage other
states from doing the same. But he also said that similar legislation may be
adopted in 2011.

"After the other border states, it is natural to look at the states that have
enacted the most anti-immigrant laws" before Arizona, Malhotra said. He said he
expected Oklahoma, South Carolina and Utah to make the "most vigorous effort" to
enact similar legislation early next year.

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said
he thinks the Obama administration designed the lawsuit against Arizona  as a
"shot across the bows" of all states considering similar moves. He said he
doubts, though, that Terrill will be deterred.

"Randy Terrill has made this his issue in Oklahoma and has earned bipartisan
support in the past," he said. "He is a determined guy and he is not going to
back down too easily."

In Utah, state Rep. Stephen Sandstrom (R) has been making regular fact-finding
trips to Arizona as he finalizes a draft bill. But, following the announcement
of the federal suit, he said he may consider watering down one of the Arizona
law's most contentious elements.

Under the law, state  officers are instructed to check immigration status if
they have a "reasonable suspicion" that a person is in the country illegally.
Sandstrom said his measure may require officers to meet the higher legal
standard of "probable cause" to suspect someone of being undocumented before
checking.

"I don't want people of Hispanic descent to feel my bill is aimed at them," he
said.

A Utah law that took effect last year made it illegal to harbor or employ
undocumented workers.  Gov. Gary R. Herbert (R) has said he expects to sign new
immigration legislation next year and is meeting with all sides to find a way
forward.

South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford (R) touted a comprehensive set of measures
against illegal immigration as the nation's strictest when he signed it into law
in 2008. The far-reaching legislation forced businesses to check the immigration
status of their workers. Harboring and transporting illegal immigrants also
became a state crime. State lawmakers are seeking to build on it and were quick
this year to draw up an Arizona-style bill, introducing it less than a week
after the Arizona measure was signed.

State Sen. Larry Martin (R) said in an interview that an Arizona-type measure
was introduced too late this year. "But I have every expectation a new bill will
be introduced in January," he said. "As long as an officer has a lawful reason
to question someone, and then a suspicion develops [that] they are an
undocumented person, then I think our law enforcement folks ought to be able to
pursue that," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 10, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Let Arizona carry out its immigration laws

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 348 words


The July 7 editorial "Suing Arizona" included the same flaw as the federal
lawsuit it supported: It confused the constitutional "preemption" standard for
laws targeting legal immigration with those targeting illegal immigrants.
Justice William J. Brennan Jr. led the Supreme Court in three cases in the 1970s
and 1980s (and still good law today) that established a lower "rational basis"
standard for state laws against illegal immigration.

The Supreme Court does not presume that Congress intended to preempt state
illegal immigration laws that are consistent with federal laws. To preempt a
consistent state law, Congress must say so expressly. Despite all the verbiage
in the Arizona lawsuits, no one can point to Congress having "clearly and
manifestly" done so. Instead it's all policy preferences better addressed by
Congress, not the courts.

And about that frustration that the federal government hasn't done its job? In a
1976 case upholding California's right to penalize employers of illegal
immigrants when the federal government didn't, Justice Brennan wrote that it was
the state's "right" to enforce its own laws when the federal government was not
"protecting the entire country." The collapse of federal immigration law
enforcement inside the borders is not a reason for preempting state laws; it's a
reason states can act when the federal government does not.

Barnaby Zall, Rockville

The writer has represented Arizona laws in several lawsuits, including the
current litigation discussed in the editorial.

I did not understand "Suing Arizona," which said that "the Constitution and
Congress have vested the federal government -- not the states -- with exclusive
authority to establish immigration and nationality laws."

The editorial also said that the Arizona legislation "requires police officers
to check the immigration status of those who are lawfully stopped" for other
suspected violations. How does this "establish immigration and nationality
laws"? Checking immigration status looks a lot like a necessary step in the
enforcement of law in existence, not law enactment.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Nick Oza / Associated Press; Maricopa County Sheriff deputies
detain a man during a traffic stop in Phoenix in April.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Utah straddling a new line on illegal residents

BYLINE: Michael W. Savage

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1373 words

DATELINE: CENTERFIELD, UTAH


Just weeks ago, Utah seemed destined to become the next state to draw a rigid
line against illegal immigration. Lawmakers were completing work on a proposal
similar to the one Arizona had approved, authorizing police to check the
immigration status of those suspected of being in the country illegally. Utah's
governor, Gary R. Herbert (R), had made it clear he expected to sign a tough law
early next year.

But rather suddenly, Utah officials are considering a different path, pondering
measures that would help integrate undocumented workers already in the state but
punish those who enter illegally in the future. Where Congress has failed to
find common ground, Utah is trying to come up with a more comprehensive
immigration policy.

"At one stage, all the talk was about an Arizona bill -- it was just like a
runaway train," said Tony Yapias, a prominent Latino activist in Utah and host
of a popular Spanish-language radio show. "But I haven't heard about that
lately. Now there are other ideas, like a guest worker program, that have
changed the direction of the debate."

President Obama signed a $600 million border security measure into law Friday,
but a broader overhaul of immigration policy is stalled in Congress. As a
result, national divisions over immigration policy are playing out state by
state. Passage of Arizona's law this spring propelled the issue into the
spotlight, prompting a rare challenge by the federal government and a decision
by a federal judge to hold up key sections of the measure.

Polls show widespread support nationally for Arizona's approach, and more than a
dozen other states are considering similar action. But the legal challenges and
other reactions triggered by Arizona's law, including several calls to boycott
the state, have caused some rethinking, at least in Utah.

Herbert, who for months had predicted he would sign a tough immigration bill,
recently said the threat of boycotts could not be ignored.

"It's unfortunate, but that's part of what is happening in the marketplace," he
said.

The tide also shifted last month after the release of 1,300 names of people in
the state suspected of being illegal immigrants. Yapias said he received a call
from Alex Segura, founder of the fiercely anti-illegal immigration Utah
Minuteman Project, who disapproved of distributing the list because its release
-- allegedly by two state workers -- was itself a violation of the law.

Yapias and Segura held a news conference calling for the immigration debate to
be conducted in a "more civil manner."

Days later, Herbert hosted a two-hour meeting with business leaders, church
members, law enforcement officials, legislators and other prominent voices,
including Yapias. The outline for a guest worker program emerged, backed by the
state's chamber of commerce and attorney general as well as state Sen. Howard
Stephenson (R).

"Everyone who has an interest in this issue needs to be at the table to express
their points of view," Herbert said. "If we do that, then I think the process
will lead us to a conclusion -- and hopefully a consensus conclusion -- that
almost everyone can feel good about. We will be looking at this from a Utah
perspective."

Herbert has said it is possible that Republicans in the state could agree to a
hybrid bill that calls for a guest worker program and greater enforcement.

Hope of integration option

State Sen. Luz Robles (D), an immigrant from Mexico, said that just a few weeks
ago she was resigned to her state signing an Arizona-style law next year.

Now she is busy working with a broad group of legislators, including
Republicans, on what she calls an "integration program" aimed at helping
undocumented immigrants if they pay a fine and agree to learn English.

"We all have different opinions, but we're all trying to find an alternative to
Arizona," she said. "At least we agree that is not the route to take."

But others, including Segura, think integration programs would worsen the
state's problems with illegal immigration.

"Just even the mention of it is going to be a disaster for Utah, encouraging
people to come from Arizona and other states," Segura said. "It sends out a
message that it is a friendly sanctuary state."

The prospects for passage of an alternative approach are far from certain, but
news of it has reached the Latino community in the small turkey-farming town of
Centerfield, two hours south of Salt Lake City.

Yapias gathered there recently with immigrant families, who plied him with
questions. Could they be affected by the federal court battle over Arizona's
law? Are their names on the list of 1,300?

But much of the attention was focused on the guest worker plan that would
finally allow many to work legally in the state they have called home for years.

"Could it really work here? Do you think it will materialize?" one woman asked
in Spanish.

"It is great that it has come along to distract from the threat of an Arizona
bill," Yapias replied. "Hopefully, it has got rid of that."

Yapias had met with Centerfield families after the list of names was released,
which sent ripples of anxiety through the community. One person in the audience
said he learned that his name was on the list when he was called by a television
reporter.

"I know I broke the law by coming here," said the man, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because of his status. "But since then, I have done
everything I can, like pay tax and pay bills on time, to ensure I don't break
the rules."

He said he did not think that federal immigration authorities would use the
list, but he worried that vigilante groups might target those on it.

Still standing firm

Those attempting to fend off anti-illegal immigration legislation are acutely
aware that the new spirit of cooperation could ebb as quickly as it formed.

An April poll by the Deseret News and KSL (Channel 5) found that 65 percent of
Utah voters wanted Arizona-type legislation. Rep. Stephen Sandstrom (R), the
state lawmaker who has been drawing up the Arizona copycat bill, unveiled it at
a news conference Friday. He said in an interview that he had "reworked some of
the language" after the federal court ruling holding up much of the Arizona law.
But, he added, he did not water it down and would not shy away if it were
challenged in court.

"It's not quite as punitive as the Arizona bill, but I need to emphasize that
this is still a very hard-hitting bill," he said. "It's a bill specifically
targeting Utah issues."

Sandstrom said he had not included in his draft legislation measures to clamp
down on day laborers, which was part of the Arizona law. He added that, unlike
in Arizona, his proposal would clarify that police could question the
immigration status of only the person stopped for a violation, not others in the
vehicle.

He said some parts of his bill would go further than Arizona's law, including
giving state welfare workers the right to check the immigration status of some
applicants.

But even Sandstrom has not been immune to the shift in direction, suggesting
this week that although he would not change his bill, he would be open to
additional proposals aimed at integrating immigrant workers.

The fate of immigration policy depends in part on the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, a powerful broker in Utah politics.

Advocates for immigrants worry that unless the church comes down decisively
against an Arizona-style measure, Sandstrom's bill could survive without
challenge.

Church officials have suggested that they favor a comprehensive approach. Ahead
of last month's roundtable discussion, church spokesman Michael Purdy said
politicians needed to find solutions "in the best interests of all whose lives
will be impacted by their actions."

To Yapias, who remembers as a teenager standing in line for hours at the U.S.
Embassy in Lima, Peru, hoping to join his father in Wyoming, the heightened
debate in Utah is just the latest sign that Congress should act on comprehensive
immigration reform.

Robles suggests that the plans for guest worker programs and other ways to
integrate immigrants amount to a not-so-subtle hint to Washington.

"Through this process, I think the feds will get the message," Robles said.
"These are desperate times. You can't blame states for taking action."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Record numbers being deported;
Rise is part of Obama's efforts to remake immigration laws

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1319 words


In a bid to remake the enforcement of federal immigration laws, the Obama
administration is deporting record numbers of illegal immigrants and auditing
hundreds of businesses that blithely hire undocumented workers.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency expects to deport about 400,000
people this fiscal year, nearly 10 percent above the Bush administration's 2008
total and 25 percent more than were deported in 2007. The pace of company audits
has roughly quadrupled since President George W. Bush's final year in office.

The effort is part of President Obama's larger project "to make our national
laws actually work," as he put it in a speech this month at American University.
Partly designed to entice Republicans to support comprehensive immigration
reform, the mission is proving difficult and politically perilous.

Obama is drawing flak from those who contend the administration is weak on
border security and from those who are disappointed he has not done more to
fulfill his campaign promise to help the country's estimated 11 million illegal
residents. Trying to thread a needle, the president contends enforcement --
including the deployment of fresh troops to the Mexico border -- is a necessary
but insufficient solution.

A June 30 memorandum from ICE director John Morton instructed officers to focus
their "principal attention" on felons and repeat lawbreakers. The policy,
influenced by a series of sometimes-heated White House meetings, also targets
repeat border crossers and declares that parents caring for children or the
infirm should be detained only in unusual cases.

"We're trying to put our money where our mouth is," Morton said in an interview,
describing the goal as a "rational" immigration policy. "You've got to have
aggressive enforcement against criminal offenders. You have to have a secure
border. You have to have some integrity in the system."

Morton said the 400,000 people expected to be deported this year -- either
physically removed or allowed to leave on their own power -- represent the
maximum the overburdened processing, detention and immigration court system can
handle.

The Obama administration has been moving away from using work-site raids to
target employers. Just 765 undocumented workers have been arrested at their jobs
this fiscal year, compared with 5,100 in 2008, according to Department of
Homeland Security figures. Instead, officers have increased employer audits,
studying the employee documentation of 2,875 companies suspected of hiring
illegal workers and assessing $6.4 million in fines.

On the ground, a program known as Secure Communities uses the fingerprints of
people in custody for other reasons to identify deportable immigrants. Morton
predicts it will "overhaul the face of immigration." The administration has
expanded the system to 437 jails and prisons from 14 and aims to extend it to
"every law enforcement jurisdiction" by 2013.

The Secure Communities project has identified 240,000 illegal immigrants
convicted of crimes, according to DHS figures. Of those, about 30,000 have been
deported, including 8,600 convicted of what the agency calls "the most egregious
offenses."

Neither side satisfied

Criticism has been swift and sure.

While the administration focuses on some illegal immigrants with criminal
records, others are allowed to remain free, creating a "sense of impunity. As
long as they keep their heads down, they're in the clear. That's no way of
enforcing immigration law," said Mark Krikorian, a supporter of stricter
policies with the Center for Immigration Studies.

"Even the ones who haven't committed murder or rape or drug offenses, all of
them have committed federal felonies," Krikorian said. He favors employer
audits, but also the roundups that Obama has largely abandoned.

Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.) similarly believes the administration is showing "apathy
toward robust immigration enforcement." He said at a House hearing in March that
the approach is nothing more than "selective amnesty."

Others, meanwhile, complain that enforcers continue to target otherwise
law-abiding illegal immigrants, splitting families and harming businesses.

"They've done a lot to start turning the ship in a more strategic and rational
direction. It's hard to say how successful they've been," said Marshall Fitz, a
specialist at the Center for American Progress. "Just because you change
policies at the top or reprioritize your enforcement agenda doesn't mean that on
the ground things have changed very much."

Obama heard that message in a closed-door White House meeting with immigration
advocates in March and was taken aback, according to participants. They said he
was surprised by evidence that thousands of ordinary illegal immigrants continue
to be targeted and deported, often for minor violations, despite the official
focus on criminals.

The discussion was "vigorous," said a White House official who was present. The
official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the
issue. "What he said was: 'We will look at what we are doing. And where we can
make changes, we will make them.' The intensity of the conversation, which was
already underway, increased as a result of that meeting."

The National Council of La Raza's Clarissa Martinez, who attended the meeting,
said: "The gap between the intent and the reality is very, very wide. The
president had thought more progress had been made."

Martinez said the federal government is "outsourcing" enforcement to local
police, state troopers and deputy sheriffs, opening the way to abuses.

Sarahi Uribe agrees. A National Day Laborer Organizing Network staffer, she
contends federal policy has created "a huge dragnet, and it's structural.
Basically, it's anyone they can get their hands on."

Focus on crime

Nearly 50 percent of the people who have been deported from the United States
this budget year have a criminal conviction, from driving without a license and
DUI to major felonies, ICE's Morton said. That represents an increase of more
than 36,000 over the same period in 2009, which showed a rise of 22,000 over
2008. "Occasionally, you will hear criticism that our criminal alien efforts are
focused around people with cracked tailpipes and speeding tickets. That's simply
false," Morton said.

A DHS spokesman said, however, that the agency has no breakdown of the crimes,
which makes advocates suspicious.

"It has been a very frustrating experience working with ICE in terms of getting
any data on the breakdown," said American Civil Liberties Union legislative
counsel Joanne Lin, who has participated in what she called "heated" White House
meetings on enforcement. While the government pledges to focus on criminal
immigrants, Lin said, the question is this: Which ones?

Morton's June 30 memorandum set priorities for the capture, detention and
removal of illegal immigrants. With the federal system facing a limit on how
many people it can deport each year, he wrote, "principal attention" must go to
people convicted of felonies or at least three misdemeanors punishable by jail
time.

In descending order of importance, the memo cites people convicted of a
misdemeanor, those caught near the border and those who have failed to obey
deportation orders.

"Nothing in this memorandum should be construed to prohibit or discourage the
apprehension, detention or removal of other aliens unlawfully in the United
States," Morton wrote, but such efforts should not "displace or disrupt" the
pursuit of bigger targets.

In an underlined section, Morton listed illegal immigrants who should not be
placed in detention except in "extraordinary circumstances." They include people
who are pregnant, nursing or seriously ill. Also included are primary caretakers
of children or the infirm and people "whose detention is otherwise not in the
public interest."

"We're very upfront about what our priorities are," Morton said. "We make no
bones about it."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     April 28, 2010 Wednesday 12:30 PM EST

Arizona immigration conflict

BYLINE: Rep. Raul Grijalva, (D-Ariz.), washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1845 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.) was online Wednesday, April 28, at 12:30
p.m. ET to discuss the growing conflict in Arizona against a bill that will make
it a state crime to be an illegal immigrant in Arizona. The Democrat has asked
the federal government not to cooperate when illegal immigrants are picked up by
local police.


Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.) was online Wednesday, April 28, at 12:30 p.m. ET to
discuss the growing conflict in Arizona against a bill that will make it a state
crime to be an illegal immigrant in Arizona. The Democrat has asked the federal
government not to cooperate when illegal immigrants are picked up by local
police.

Video: Furor grows over Arizona's immigration law (AP)

____________________

Programming note:  We have extended invitations to authorities who represent the
other side of the immigration issue in Arizona.  Please consult the Live Chats
schedule.

Phoenix, Ariz.: How do you reconcile your commitment to uphold the Constitution
as a member of Congress and yet suggest that federal authorities not enforce
U.S. immigration law?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I have never said or suggested that federal immigration laws
should not be enforced. I have suggested that federal law is a federal
obligation and should not be delegated to local authorities.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: An Arizona sheriff, Sheriff Clarence Dupnik, has already
announced that he won't uphold this law because it is, in his words, a "racist
law." Even Tom Tancredo (!) thinks the law goes over the line. Is this law even
going to live long enough to be enforced?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I believe that the legal challenges of the Constitutionality
of this law will eventually overturn SB 1070.

_______________________

Annapolis, Md.: Other than amnesty, what is your solution to the illegal
immigration problem? Another amnesty would only make the problem worse.

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I have never supported blanket amnesty. I have supported and
still support a path to legalization, border security, additional funds to
support enforcement in high drug trafficking areas, and other elements of a
comprehensive solution. I co-sponsored HR 4321, the Comprehensive Immigration
Reform ASAP bill.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Under the new law, what will happen to legal visitors, legal
immigrants, or citizens who are stopped by the police but unable to produce any
documentation of their status?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: The person would be subject to arrest, possible detention,
and a $500 fine for not having the correct papers on demand.

_______________________

Portland, Ore.: Don't you realize that your proposal for a boycott of all things
Arizona may well hurt the people who need help and support the most? As a
frequent visitor to the Phoenix area, I can't help but notice that most service
workers are Mexican or of Mexican descent. Fewer tourists add up to less jobs,
which equals more misery. Would you reconsider?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I have not called for a general "boycott" of Arizona. I have
called for a targeted ban on conventions and conferences in the state for a
limited time. The idea is to send a message, not grind down the state economy.

_______________________

Minneapolis, Minn.: Representative Grijalva -- Thanks for taking questions
today.  Are you satisfied with the president's response to the  passage of this
law? Is there more you would like him to do  or say?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I am encouraged by the president's instructions to the
Department of Justice to investigate the Constitutionality and civil rights
implications of the new law. Hopefully, this will lead the DOJ to seek an
injunction against the law.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I know you're head of Progressive Caucus. Do you worry that
since you played nice with Obama on health care, he might not do immigration
reform? I would worry about it.

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I don't believe the president is ignoring the issue of
immigration reform. The real impediment is members of Congress who are too
afraid of the issue or those that seek to exploit it for political gain. That's
the real problem.

_______________________

Anonymous: What provisions does the new immigration law have in it with regards
to illegals who have resided in Arizona like more than five years and own
businesses, homes and pay income taxes??

Thank you for your response.

Rep. Raul Grijalva: For the law-abiding, hard-working people that you describe,
comprehensive reform would provide a path to legalization, which involves
background checks, a waiting period, and a fee for processing. SB 1070, which
we're discussing today, does not deal at all with the people you describe other
than in an enforcement and detention capacity.

_______________________

Philadelphia, Pa.: Do you have any thoughts as to whether the Republican
National Convention should consider being held in Phoenix?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: It certainly would fit nicely into the RNC's theme on
immigrants.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: Why don't you advocate enforcement of existing federal
immigration laws so that states won't have to create their own in desperation?
If laws against employers of illegals were enforced, most of the problem would
go away.

Rep. Raul Grijalva: Employer sanctions under comprehensive reform would be an
effective deterrent because all employees would be identified as legal and
eligible for employment. Without comprehensive reform, we rely on a system in
which employees work in the shadows, unseen and unreachable.

_______________________

Phoenix, Ariz.: How many of those commenting have actually read the AZ bill have
actually read it. Do you think people really understand all of its parts? It
seems to be that reactions to the bill are based on preconceived biases.

Rep. Raul Grijalva: Immigration has unfortunately become a gut reaction issue.
SB 1070 upon reading will be more distasteful than one's original impression.

_______________________

Washington, D.C. (via Navajo Nation): What is your plan to get Arizona Indian
Tribes aboard to end 1070?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: Opposition to SB 1070 has included Native nations. The
racial profiling demand for Tribal identification will be reason enough for more
tribes to oppose it.

_______________________

North Manchester, Ind.: Please explain why illegal immigrants should not be
subject to our border laws. If I am in England illegally, they have every right
to toss me out until I can do the right thing and provide documentation that I
have respected their rules. What in your argument am I missing?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I am not implying that immigration laws should not be
enforced. Your assumption is that I believe the opposite, which is wrong. My
opposition to SB 1070 is based on Constitutional concerns.

_______________________

Detroit, Mich.: Given concerns over the state of the national debt, how are
members of both parties proposing to pay for their immigration proposals? I find
it hard to stomach complaints about our debt when the same people propose
building a giant and expensive fence.

Rep. Raul Grijalva: The immigration reform bill presently in the House requires
the payment of a fee for those who are undocumented. This fund would pay for the
processing of applications, which is the key expense. The irony about the fence
is that despite its ineffectiveness and cost overruns, it remains a rallying cry
for people who think they're solving the problem. It's simplistic and doesn't do
what proponents think it does.

_______________________

Belfast, U.K.: I don't understand the logic behind an earned pathway to
citizenship for those who have broken the rules. How is this fair when faced
against many others who would like to come to the United States, from Ireland
for example, who pursue legal means of entry?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: One of the largest groups of undocumented are the Irish and
Eastern bloc residents. They too would benefit from an earned path to
legalization. They would have to get at the back of the line and wait with every
other undocumented group, but they would have the opportunities they deserve and
don't have now.

_______________________

San Francisco, Calif.: I agree that this law goes way over the line. However, as
a resident of another very strained border state, I sympathize a bit with the
frustration of the people of Arizona, which led to this overreaction. What do
you suggest as a more reasonable way to deal with the huge numbers of illegal
immigrants coming into our country?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: Dealing with migration to this country from Latin America
will require the United States to have a real strategy to build capacity in the
region, including economic development, humanitarian assistance, and education.
I am convinced that people come here driven by poverty and hunger, not malice or
greed. They would remain home if they could sustain their families there. This
has to become an essential part of reform.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: I was quite stunned this morning to hear John McCain blame the
immigration law on President Obama for "failing to protect our borders."

How can he honestly lay the blame for this at the president's doorstep?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: For eight years or more, the Republicans have been funding
and promoting "border security" -- troops on the border, more Border Patrol
agents, fences, detention centers, virtual fences -- and we still have the same
issue before us. For them or McCain in particular to blame those who are trying
to deal with this complex issue now is the height of hypocrisy. While Sen.
McCain was a maverick he promoted comprehensive immigration reform, and now as a
Tea Party convert mimics his primary opponent J. D. Hayworth. This for me calls
anything he says into question.

_______________________

Apache Junction, Ariz.: What exactly do you propose as a solution to illegal
immigration in Arizona? Do you view illegal immigration as just that, the people
breaking the law of the U.S.?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: As I've stated before countless times, I support
comprehensive immigration reform as a key to dealing with unauthorized entries.
I see undocumented immigrants as committing a civil infraction, which is stated
in present immigration law.

_______________________

Rochester, N.Y.: Is it true that if police stop someone under the new AZ law,
and that person simply declares himself to be a citizen, the police can't demand
ID from him or her?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: Under the new law, if police have "reasonable suspicion"
that the person is an undocumented immigrant, they can demand proof. Refusing to
provide it will not end the conversation.

_______________________

Virginia: I lived in Latin America most of my life, speak Spanish fluently, and
love its music, culture, and people. My Hispanic friends and I support enforcing
Arizona law. Does that make us racists?

Rep. Raul Grijalva: I'm glad you like the music. No, you're not a racist.
However, you might want to protect your Constitutional rights by opposing this
law.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: This now concludes today's discussion with Rep. Grijavla.
Thank you for joining.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 4, 2010 Tuesday 11:46 AM EST

All 13 D.C. council members enter Ariz. immigration fight

BYLINE: Tim Craig

LENGTH: 525 words



HIGHLIGHT: The D.C. Council waded squarely into the fight over illegal
immigration today, as all 13 members sponsored a bill forbidding the police
chief from sharing arrest data with federal immigration officials and also
announced unamious support for a resolution calling on the city to stop doing
business with Arizona.


The D.C. Council waded squarely into the fight over illegal immigration today,
as all 13 members sponsored a bill forbidding the police chief from sharing
arrest data with federal immigration officials and also announced unamious
support for a resolution calling on the city to stop doing business with
Arizona.

Responding to Arizona's new immigration law, the resolution calls on the city
government and the employee pension fund to "divest' from all Arizona state and
municipal bonds and ban city workers from traveling to that state on official
business.

The resolution does not appear to prevent the city from doing business with
Arizona-based companies, as some Hispanic activists had proposed.

"I can't think of a more horrific action than one taken by Arizona," said
Council Chairman Vincent C. Gray, a Democratic candidate for mayor. "We are in
2010, not 1810 and we don't need to harken back to the days when racial
discrimination was rampant. We need to do everything we can in the District of
Columbia because this is the right thing to do."

It's unclear how much business the District does with the state of Arizona. And
the council did not vote on the resolution, although its passage is virtually
assured. Council member Michael Brown (I-At large) said similar resolutions will
be introduced or have already been introduced in Boston, San Fransico, New York,
Philadephia, Milwaukee and Chicago.

"The last time citizens were required to carry papers was in the slave era in
the South," said Brown, referring to provisions in the law that give police more
latitude to stop and detain immigrants they suspect are in the country
illegally.

The council is also setting up a potential showdown with Police Chief Cathy
Lanier over whether the city will participate in the Secure Communities
Initiative. Under that federal program, local police are supposed to share
arrest data with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency. Council members
say Lanier had indicated to them she had planned to comply with the Secure
Communities Initiative.

But all 13 members signed onto a bill that would "prohibit the District of
Columbia to transmit arrest data to the United States Department of Homeland
Security" or ICE. The city, however, would continue to notify federal
immigration officials when a suspected illegal immigrant has been convicted of a
crime.

Council member Phil Mendelson (D-At Large), a lead sponsor of the bill, said
undocumented immigrants should be not be subject to deportation soley because
they have been arrested for a crime they may ultimately be cleared of.

"It will create a firewall between our local police efforts and immigration
efforts," said Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1). "This is a very, very clear
message we care about human rights in the District of Columbia."

Mendelson's bill still has to work its way through the committee process, but
he's hoping Lanier instead decides to voluntarily opt out of the program.

"By having every [council member] on board, it sends a clear message," Mendelson
said. "And if we have to have a hearing, we will have it. And then if we have to
have a vote, we'll have that too."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 7, 2010 Wednesday 8:20 AM EST

The Fix: Immigration all of a sudden a top campaign issue

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 1688 words



HIGHLIGHT: 1. The Obama administration's decision to move forward with a legal
challenge to Arizona's stringent illegal immigration law will almost certainly
elevate the issue on the campaign trail this fall.


1. The Obama administration's decision to move forward with a legal challenge to
Arizona's stringent illegal immigration law will almost certainly elevate the
issue on the campaign trail this fall.

The Arizona measure, which was signed into law by Gov. Jan Brewer (R) in April,
is a major political touchstone--of prime importance to Hispanics, the fastest
growing demographic group in the country and a coveted electoral prize for both
parties.

Democratic strategists see the Arizona law as a key moment in the ongoing battle
to win the loyalty of Hispanic voters. They believe that it will have a similar
chilling effect for Republicans with Latinos as the passage of California's
Proposition 187 did in the 1990s.

Republicans, on the other hand, believe that Democrats are badly out of step
with the American people on the immigration issue. They cite the Obama
administration's aggressive approach to fighting the Arizona law is yet more
evidence of that out-of-touchness.

In that vein, nearly two dozen House Republicans sent a letter to Attorney
General Eric Holder on Tuesday describing the legal challenge as the "height of
irresponsibility and arrogance."

Polling on the Arizona law specifically falls in Republicans' favor, although
broader data suggests a public deeply divided on immigration.

In the latest Washington Post/ABC poll, 58 percent expressed support for the
Arizona law -- including 42 percent who were strongly supportive -- while 41
percent opposed it.

But in that same survey, which was conducted in early June, nearly six in ten
(57 percent) of people supported allowing illegal immigrants to stay in the
country if they paid a fine and met other citizenship requirements -- a major
plank of past attempts to offer a comprehensive immigration solution.

And, on the question of whether the state government should be allowed to make
its own laws on immigration or whether that should be left up to the federal
government, the public was deeply divided, with 46 percent choosing states and
52 percent opting for the federal government.

(On that question, partisanship is a major predictor: three quarters of
Democrats said that the federal government should be in charge of immigration
law, while 59 percent of Republicans and 57 percent of independents said states
should be free to make their own laws.)

While President Obama has made something of a rhetorical push of late on
immigration, party strategists believe the issue is too politically hot -- and
with too little clarity on what the American people want -- for it to be taken
up in an election year.

The administration's lawsuit, however, ensures that the immigration debate will
be front and center for the next few months -- making it a virtual certainty
that for some (many?) it will be a voting issue on Nov. 2.

2. Indiana Rep. Brad Ellsworth (D) is up with his first TV ad of the race for
the seat of retiring Sen. Evan Bayh (D-Ind.), a 30-second spot touting his
background as a sheriff but making no mention of his current occupation.

"One thing that 25 years as a sheriff teaches you is zero tolerance for bull,"
the two-term southern Indiana Congressman says in the straight-to-camera spot.
"There's too much at stake. But out in Washington, it's like they live and
breathe this stuff."

It's the most striking example to date of Ellsworth's endeavor to run as sheriff
-- he was the top cop in Vanderburgh County before being elected to Congress --
and not as a congressman. Even Ellsworth's campaign website touts him as a
sheriff: it features a banner photo with the candidate standing next to a
sheriff's car and the first paragraph of his bio leads with his "over two
decades of experience in the local Sheriff's office," making only a passing
reference his "brief time as the 8th District's Congressman."

(Ellsworth is far from the only representative this cycle to leave out any
mention of his current occupation. Just yesterday, Rep. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.)
released a TV ad highlighting his background as a high school teacher and
university president, making no mention of his years in the House Republican
leadership.)

National Republicans were quick to point out the omission in Ellsworth's ad.
"Brad Ellsworth is right: voters have 'zero tolerance for bull.' But
unfortunately, 'bull' is exactly what Ellsworth is offering Hoosiers in this
hypocritical and insulting campaign advertisement," National Republican
Senatorial Committee communications director Brian Walsh said.

3. Iowa Republicans have cut their voter registration gap in half -- a sign of
not only a competitive gubernatorial GOP primary in the state last month but
also the movement of the state away from Democrats in recent months.

Iowa Secretary of State Mike Mauro (D) announced Tuesday that Republicans added
37,000 voters to the rolls in June, while Democrats lost 10,000 - a shift that
cut in half a Democratic advantage that had stood at around 100,000 votes after
the 2008 election, an election where President Barack Obama carried the Hawkeye
State by 10 points.

The latest GOP shift was more pronounced than other recent waves of party
switchers in the state. In 2006, a competitive Democratic governor primary
forced a net shift of about 25,000 voters in the party's favor, while in 2002
competitive GOP governor and Senate primaries moved 20,000 voters to
Republicans.

The new shift is notably bigger than its predecessors, but is likely the result
of a leveling effect after the 2008 election.

Iowa Democrats in Iowa increased their registration advantage from 30,000 at the
start of 2008 to 110,000 after President Obama's big win. Their current
46,000-voter edge is much more in line with where party registration has been
over the last decade -- returning Iowa to swing state status.

4. Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty (R) will make another swing to Iowa at the end of
the month, a three-day visit that will mark his third visit to the state this
cycle and a continuation of his presidential ambitions.

Pawlenty will kick off his trip on Saturday, July 31. He's slated to attend a
breakfast event for state Rep. Steve Lukan (R) in Dubuque, followed by events
for state Senate hopeful and former state Rep. Bill Dix (R) in Waverly and state
House Minority Leader Kraig Paulsen (R) in Cedar Rapids.

On Sunday, he attends an event with state Rep. Jeff Kaufmann (R) in West
Liberty. The trip will be rounded out with an event for the Scott County Lincoln
Club in Davenport on Monday morning.

"Governor Pawlenty is working hard to help conservatives around the country win
this fall," Pawlenty spokesperson Alex Conant said. "We have great opportunities
in Iowa, and Governor Pawlenty is trying to build on that excitement through his
new Iowa PAC and this upcoming trip to eastern Iowa."

The trip will be Pawlenty's first to the eastern part of the state, which is
Iowa's strongest Democratic area. In November, he spoke at the Iowa Republican
Party's annual dinner, and in April he addressed a rally for Iowans for Tax
Relief; both events were held in Des Moines.

Pawlenty has made no secret of the fact that he is exploring a run for president
in 2012 and his regular trips to Iowa affirm that interest. Remember the old Fix
adage: NO politician goes to Iowa by accident.

Pawlenty leads the pack of potential 2012 Republican contenders in visits to
Iowa this cycle: as of mid-June, former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, former
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and South
Dakota Sen. John Thune had each visited the state once since November, 2008.

But Pawlenty's name ID remains low in the state: a June Des Moines Register poll
showed that 53 percent of likely Republican voters in Iowa didn't know enough
about the Minnesota governor to have an opinion about him.

This weekend, Pawlenty makes his third visit this cycle to another key 2012
state: he's scheduled to be in New Hampshire, where he'll be headlining the
Strafford County Republican Party summer picnic as well as a $250-a-couple
fundraiser for the New Hampshire Republican Party.

5. Fundraising reports continued to trickle in Tuesday, with Denver Mayor John
Hickenlooper's (D) Colorado gubernatorial campaign going bargain-basement
shopping.

Hickenlooper's camp announced Tuesday that it has spent virtually all of its
money on a lengthy television ad buy. It has $1.2 million in ad time reserved,
but just $66,000 cash on hand. By buying time early, the Hickenlooper campaign
gets the time at a lower rate.

It's an unusual strategy, and one that requires a few things. First, you need to
be sure your fundraising won't dry up (probably not an issue for Hickenlooper,
who raised a strong $500,000 in June). And second, you need to be able to get
out front and make sure the strategy isn't misinterpreted as free-spending on
ads when no voters are paying attention.

Sen. Mark Udall's (D-Colo.) 2008 campaign employed a similar strategy, which
isn't surprising given that Udall's 2008 campaign manager, Mike Melanson, now
fills that same role for Hickenlooper.

In other second-quarter fundraising reports: Montgomery City Councilwoman Martha
Roby (R) raised $100,000 between May 13 and June 23 in advance of her July 13
runoff with Rick Barberr-- yes, that Rick Barber-- with the winner moving on to
face Alabama Rep. Bobby Bright (D)....Former New Hampshire Rep. Charlie Bass (R)
raised a decent $170,000 in the second quarter and banked $360,000 for his run
at Senate candidate Paul Hodes' (D) 2nd district seat.....Former Ruth's Chris
Steakhouse CEO Craig Miller (R) announced he raised $270,000 and banked $322,000
over the last three months for the Aug. 24 primary to face Rep. Suzanne Kosmas
(D-Fla.)....In the Democratic primary for retiring Massachusetts Rep. Bill
Delahunt's (D) seat, Norfolk County District Attorney William Keating outraised
state Sen. Robert O'Leary $381,000 to $200,000 between April and June, according
to the Cape Cod Times....Tennessee state Sen. Roy Herron (D) reported raising
$350,000 and banking $1.2 million for a clear primary in retiring Rep. John
Tanner's (D) district. Republicans are waging an expensive primary battle.

With Felicia Sonmez and Aaron Blake

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. police chiefs say Ariz. immigration law will increase crime

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 370 words


Arizona's new crackdown on illegal immigration will increase crime in U.S.
cities, not reduce it, by driving a wedge between police and immigrant
communities, police chiefs from several of the state's and the nation's largest
cities said Wednesday.

Arizona's law will intimidate crime victims and witnesses who are illegal
immigrants and divert police from investigating more serious crimes, chiefs from
Los Angeles, Houston and Philadelphia said before meeting with Attorney General
Eric H. Holder Jr. to discuss the measure. Counterparts from Phoenix, Tucson,
San Jose and Montgomery County, among others, joined them.

"This is not a law that increases public safety. This is a bill that makes it
much harder for us to do our jobs," Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said.
"Crime will go up if this becomes law in Arizona or in any other state."

According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, four states have
introduced their own versions of the Arizona law, which defines illegal
immigration as criminal trespassing and requires police to request documents of
anyone they stop and have a "reasonable suspicion" is in the country illegally.

Recent public opinion polls indicate that as many as 70 percent of Americans
surveyed support such a police requirement.  The American Civil Liberties Union
and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund have filed lawsuits
to stop the Arizona law, arguing that the Constitution preempts states from
enforcing federal law and that the measure will lead to racial profiling. The
U.S. Justice Department, which Holder heads, is also weighing whether to file
suit.

While the Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police opposes the new law, elected
sheriffs including Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu, head of the Arizona
Sheriff's Association, back it.

Babeu said cooperation from illegal immigrants, particularly those coming from
Mexico, is already low because they are in the United States illegally and
because of law enforcement corruption in their native countries.

"The people of Arizona believe the overall majority of Americans are not only
supportive of this law, but that our measure of generosity has been crossed, a
line has been crossed," Babeu said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's clean-vote surprise

BYLINE: Ruth Marcus

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 778 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


"What's the matter with Arizona?" is the obvious question about the state's new
immigration law. There are a few obvious answers -- and a not-so-obvious one
that I was surprised to hear from observers across the political spectrum here.

Obviously, the state is reacting -- overreacting -- in understandable
frustration to the federal government's failure to control illegal immigration.
Overall illegal immigration is down, but stepped-up enforcement in California
and Texas has helped shift the problem to Arizona.

Obviously, the state is reacting to an economic crisis that has made the
additional pressures of illegal immigration all the more untenable. In the
percentage of jobs lost, Arizona has suffered more than Michigan, and its budget
woes have exceeded those of California.

Obviously, the Republican Party, which controls both houses of the Arizona
legislature and the governorship, is becoming more conservative nationwide. In
the Grand Canyon state, the Tea Partyers met the Minutemen.

But Arizona is not as blazingly red as it once was. Arizonans voted for Bill
Clinton in 1996 and twice elected Janet Napolitano governor. Five of its eight
U.S. House members are Democrats. Its Hispanic population is 30 percent and
growing -- suggesting that a wise politician of either party would do well not
to alienate this key constituency.

Which leads to the less obvious reason that many people here posed as an
explanation, at least in part, for the immigration bill: the state's 1998 "Clean
Elections" law. The measure, adopted in response to a corruption scandal, is one
of the most far-reaching public financing laws in the nation.

Candidates for the legislature can receive public funding if they collect 220
contributions of at least $5 each. This entitles them to more than $14,000 for
the primary campaign and more than $21,000 for the general election. If a
competing candidate chooses not to comply with spending and contribution limits,
the publicly funded candidate gets matching funds to stay even.

One admirable notion underlying the law was to make campaigns more competitive,
leveling the playing field between entrenched incumbents beholden to moneyed
interests and upstart challengers otherwise unable to amass the necessary
resources.

Trouble is, it worked -- perhaps too well. The barriers to entry were extremely
low. People with little experience in politics at any level ran for the
legislature and won. Previously, for better or worse, candidates of both parties
were "vetted" by business groups that  then proceeded to help them raise money,
a process that served to filter out extremes on both sides.

And, as it turned out, a law pushed by "good government" types, primarily
Democrats, ended up benefiting conservative Republicans who quickly figured out
that the Clean Elections money could be used to take on Chamber of Commerce-type
Republicans.

"Clean Elections allowed individuals . . . not to have to compete financially
since they didn't have to build constituencies," Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon, a
Democrat, said in an interview.

J.D. Hayworth, the conservative former congressman who is challenging Sen. John
McCain in the Republican primary here, told me that "for those of us who derided
it as nanny-state government, and properly so," the "unintended consequence is
that it has empowered conservatives."

Retired Supreme Court justice Sandra Day O'Connor is spearheading a reform
effort that includes repealing the financing law. But a measure to do so died in
the just-concluded legislative session.

Meanwhile, another good-government initiative -- to create more politically
competitive districts by taking the task of drawing them away from the
legislature and giving it to a bipartisan commission -- also did not work as
intended. Under a constitutional amendment adopted by voters in 2000, Arizona
became the first state to require that competitiveness be considered in drawing
legislative lines.

Great idea. But competitiveness was just one among many factors to be
considered, and only four of 30 districts ended up competitive. The Arizona
Supreme Court last year rejected a challenge by Hispanic Democratic lawmakers
seeking to have the lines redrawn to require additional swing districts.

Safe seats plus the Clean Elections funding equaled more extreme candidates --
and a legislature where moderate Republicans are nearly extinct.

I am a firm supporter, in theory, of public financing and, even more, of
nonpartisan redistricting. But the Arizona experience offers a sobering lesson
to reformers. It's not necessarily to be careful what you wish for. But craft
your wish with precision, or you may regret making it.

marcusr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 22, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Jail screenings get a thumbs-up;
Fairfax sheriff calls program that IDs criminal illegal immigrants 'fantastic'

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1270 words


For nearly a year, Fairfax County's Adult Detention Center has quietly helped
pilot a far-reaching program designed to identify criminal illegal immigrants
and assist the federal government in removing them from the United States.

Although controversy over civil liberties issues has surrounded similar efforts,
the Fairfax program, Secure Communities, has had a lower profile. It
automatically checks the digital fingerprints of anyone processed at the jail
against immigration databases maintained by the Department of Homeland Security.
If someone is found to be an illegal immigrant whom officials want to deport, an
officer of DHS's Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, or ICE, calls the
jail's booking desk within an hour to place a "detainer" on the person.

Fairfax, which will mark the one-year anniversary of its enrollment next month,
was among the first of only 116 jurisdictions nationwide to participate. Prince
William County, the District and Prince George's County, which enrolled more
recently, are the only other Washington area jurisdictions to sign up. The Obama
administration plans to expand the program, which costs about $200 million a
year, to all 3,100 local jails nationwide by 2013.

In Fairfax, 619 inmates were targeted for removal in 2009 because of the
program. About 474 illegal immigrant inmates were identified by other means, for
a total of 1,093 -- a 40 percent increase from 2008, even though the jail's
population shrank slightly.

About a third have been deported. The rest are in immigration proceedings or
serving their sentences.

ICE officials said it's difficult to attribute all of the increase to Secure
Communities. If the program hadn't been in place, they said, they might have
mounted other equally effective efforts in the jail.

But Fairfax Sheriff Stan G. Barry, who runs the detention center, gave the
program high marks. "It's been absolutely fantastic," he said. "We've been able
to identify a lot more individuals who are threats to our community and have
them removed."

Officials point to the Fairfax police arrest March 27 of a Belgian man accused
of solicitation of prostitution. The Secure Communities check revealed that he
was in the country illegally, had encountered local police more than a dozen
times under various aliases and had been convicted of crimes that ranged from
assault to attempted armed robbery.

It's possible that the man might have been caught even if Fairfax didn't use
Secure Communities. Since July 2008, the Virginia legislature has required jail
officials to notify immigration authorities of any foreign nationals in their
custody.

However, inmates can lie about their citizenship. And in the past, during
periods when many inmates were brought through the jail at once, sheriff's
deputies often lacked the time and training to take a closer look, Barry said.

"It involved a lot of guesswork," he said. When deputies did call ICE, there was
no way to ensure that ICE agents followed up.

The immigration databases that the Secure Communities program taps are not
infallible. They list only foreigners who entered the United States on a visa or
who were caught trying to sneak in but later released. Those who have never
crossed paths with immigration authorities are not singled out -- the same as
U.S.-born citizens. But ICE officials can investigate further.

Secure Communities gives federal officials full control over which illegal
immigrants are deported. The Obama administration has announced that its
priority is to remove those guilty of violent or serious crimes. (Being in the
country illegally is a civil violation, not a criminal offense.)

By contrast, under a similar but more controversial program known as 287g, after
the legal provision that created it, local jail officials are trained and
deputized to determine which inmates are illegal immigrants and to decide
whether to pursue deportation. Immigrant advocates worry that this offers local
officials who might be prejudiced against immigrants a way to target them.

In Frederick County, one of a handful of Washington area jurisdictions that
participate in 287g, Sheriff Charles A. Jenkins said his policy is to target
every inmate identified as an illegal immigrant for deportation.

That has amounted to 605 inmates since the jail enrolled in 287g in April 2008,
Jenkins said, about 9 percent of the total jail population. Jenkins said that
deporting even low-level offenders is beneficial.

"One of the first persons we processed [for deportation] was driving under the
influence of alcohol through a school zone during school hours at 30 miles over
the speed limit," Jenkins said. "Is he any less of a threat to the community
than a [top-level] offender? I would argue no."

Barry said he supports leaving discretion with federal authorities. "In an ideal
world of unlimited resources, should we deport everyone who committed an
offense? Sure. But we can't deport everyone," he said.

To Barry, who was considering enrolling in 287g when federal officials
approached him about Secure Communities, perhaps the strongest argument is
financial.

A smaller facility such as Frederick County's detention center can conduct
immigration investigations during its regular duties. But Barry estimated that
using 287g would have required him to dedicate eight to 15 people at an annual
cost of as much as $3 million. Secure Communities is funded entirely by the
federal government.

Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies at the Center for Immigration
Studies, a Washington think tank that favors limits on immigration, said the
automated nature of Secure Communities also can help insulate local officials
from allegations that they are singling out immigrants through racial profiling
-- a concern that has dogged the 287g program.

"There's no judgment call, no decision to make, like: 'Is that a foreign name?
Do I run it?' " Vaughan said.

Advocates for immigrants aren't so sure. "We fear that police will be doing
preemptive arrests to get people who they suspect of being immigrants into the
jail system so that they will be checked through the Secure Communities
program," said Michele Waslin, senior policy analyst at the Immigration Policy
Center.

Statistics from ICE suggest that agents pursue deportation of more than half of
all eligible people who have committed serious crimes, compared with as few as a
fifth of lower-level offenders. The trend is comparable in Fairfax.

However, the figures are imprecise. And the bulk of the 40,000 people who have
been targeted for deportation under Secure Communities since the program's
inception in October 2008 are lower-level offenders. This is mainly because so
many low-level offenders go through the system, said ICE spokesman Richard
Rocha.

During a recent afternoon at the Fairfax jail, officials appeared to show
restraint. A 29-year-old man with bleary eyes and dirty clothing who was brought
in for public drunkenness at a gas station spoke only Spanish. His offense was a
misdemeanor for which fingerprints are not taken at the jail, so no automated
check of his nationality or immigration status was conducted.

A few minutes later, police officers escorted in a Moroccan-born man on a more
serious charge: stealing merchandise off the loading dock at a nearby Macy's.
Deputy Sheriff Donald Fuller took his fingerprints on an electronic scanner
connected to a computer, then clicked the button that would check them against
the databases.

In this instance, the man turned out to be a legal permanent resident. ICE
officials said they would monitor the case in the event he is convicted of a
charge that cancels his legal status.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Dayna Smith For The Washington Post; The Fairfax Adult
Detention Center participates in the Secure Communities program, which checks
the immigration status of inmates as they enter the system.
IMAGE; Digital fingerprints are checked against Homeland Security databases.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration backlog stirs move to release some U.S. detainees

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1214 words


The Obama administration is moving to release thousands of illegal immigrants
detained at facilities across the country if the immigrants have a potential
path to legal residency.

The move could affect as many as 17,000 immigrants who entered the country
illegally or overstayed their visas, according to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials. It comes amid a push by ICE to focus on illegal
immigrants who have committed crimes, rather than seek to deport all illegal
immigrants.  Officials say that the shift  is needed to reduce massive clogs in
the nation's immigration courts - where detainees wait for months or years
before their cases are decided - and to use deportation as a tool for public
safety.

"ICE is dedicating unprecedented resources to the removal of criminal aliens,"
said Richard Rocha, deputy press secretary at the immigration enforcement
agency. "The focus now is clearly on criminal aliens. . . . We want to ensure
convicted criminal aliens are not only removed from the community, but from the
country as well."

Rocha said that the deportation of criminals  accounts for about half of all
removals, an all-time high. If the immigrants released under the new policy have
their applications for legalization turned down, ICE will resume removal
proceedings.

While immigration advocates applauded the move and said it reflected a more
humane approach to illegal immigrants in detention, Republican lawmakers and
groups that favor stricter limits on immigration denounced it as a form of
back-door amnesty.

The number of immigrants being detained in the United States has doubled in the
last decade, to 369,000 annually. There are now about 248,000 cases awaiting
review in backlogged immigration courts, according to Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University, which tracks immigration
statistics.

The increases have triggered huge logistical problems and exposed successive
administrations to charges that those who are in the country illegally, a
violation of civil statutes, are being exposed to unnecessarily harsh
conditions.

Simultaneously, ICE officials maintain, clogged immigration courts divert
officials from identifying, tracking down and deporting illegal immigrants who
have committed violent crimes and other offenses.

In a memo dated Aug. 20, ICE Director John Morton wrote that as many as 17,000
illegal immigrants have pending applications for legal status with the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, ICE's sister agency within the Department
of Homeland Security.

As those applications are being reviewed,  immigrants in detention who do not
have criminal backgrounds might be eligible for release, Morton said. Local ICE
officials have discretion in releasing detainees, he added, and would take into
consideration a number of factors, including "national security and public
safety."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
supports tighter controls on immigration, warned that the move would demoralize
agents working for ICE and also send the wrong message about illegal
immigration.

Krikorian acknowledged that the government has to set immigration enforcement
priorities, but said the shortfall in resources stems partly from the Obama
administration's not seeking sufficient means to expedite the review of cases
and the deportation of detainees.

"Simply letting them go sends a harmful message to immigration agents and to
illegal immigrants," he said. Agents feel "their work is not valued. The message
sent to the illegals is that even if you are put into deportation proceedings,
we will let you go."

The Obama administration is moving to release thousands of illegal immigrants
detained at facilities across the country if the immigrants have a potential
path to legal residency.

The move could affect as many as 17,000 immigrants who entered the country
illegally or overstayed their visas, according to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officials. It comes amid a push by ICE to focus on illegal
immigrants who have committed crimes, rather than seek to deport all illegal
immigrants.  Officials say that the shift  is needed to reduce massive clogs in
the nation's immigration courts - where detainees wait for months or years
before their cases are decided - and to use deportation as a tool for public
safety.

"ICE is dedicating unprecedented resources to the removal of criminal aliens,"
said Richard Rocha, deputy press secretary at the immigration enforcement
agency. "The focus now is clearly on criminal aliens. . . . We want to ensure
convicted criminal aliens are not only removed from the community, but from the
country as well."

Rocha said that the deportation of criminals  accounts for about half of all
removals, an all-time high. If the immigrants released under the new policy have
their applications for legalization turned down, ICE will resume removal
proceedings.

While immigration advocates applauded the move and said it reflected a more
humane approach to illegal immigrants in detention, Republican lawmakers and
groups that favor stricter limits on immigration denounced it as a form of
back-door amnesty.

The number of immigrants being detained in the United States has doubled in the
last decade, to 369,000 annually. There are now about 248,000 cases awaiting
review in backlogged immigration courts, according to Transactional Records
Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University, which tracks immigration
statistics.

The increases have triggered huge logistical problems and exposed successive
administrations to charges that those who are in the country illegally, a
violation of civil statutes, are being exposed to unnecessarily harsh
conditions.

Simultaneously, ICE officials maintain, clogged immigration courts divert
officials from identifying, tracking down and deporting illegal immigrants who
have committed violent crimes and other offenses.

In a memo dated Aug. 20, ICE Director John Morton wrote that as many as 17,000
illegal immigrants have pending applications for legal status with the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, ICE's sister agency within the Department
of Homeland Security.

As those applications are being reviewed,  immigrants in detention who do not
have criminal backgrounds might be eligible for release, Morton said. Local ICE
officials have discretion in releasing detainees, he added, and would take into
consideration a number of factors, including "national security and public
safety."

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
supports tighter controls on immigration, warned that the move would demoralize
agents working for ICE and also send the wrong message about illegal
immigration.

Krikorian acknowledged that the government has to set immigration enforcement
priorities, but said the shortfall in resources is stems partly from the Obama
administration's not seeking sufficient means to expedite the review of cases
and the deportation of detainees.

"Simply letting them go sends a harmful message to immigration agents and to
illegal immigrants," he said. Agents feel "their work is not valued. The message
sent to the illegals is that even if you are put into deportation proceedings,
we will let you go."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant detainees bound for Va. center;
Surge of criminal charges since '09 Large facility the result of federal
screening program

BYLINE: Kevin Sieff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 970 words


The largest immigrant detention center in the mid-Atlantic will soon open in
Prince Edward County, an effort to accommodate Virginia's unprecedented surge in
detentions of illegal immigrants picked up on criminal charges.

The $21 million, privately run  center will house up to 584 immigrant detainees
when it opens its doors. Over the next year, it might grow to hold 1,000
prisoners, most of them snagged by the federal government's growing Secure
Communities program, which aims to find and deport criminal  illegal immigrants.

Last month, Virginia became the second state, after Delaware, to implement the
program statewide, requiring jails and prisons to screen prisoners by
immigration status and check their fingerprints against the country's
immigration database.

With three months left in the fiscal year, the number of illegal immigrants with
criminal convictions detained in Virginia and the District has increased by 50
percent from last year's total, to 2,414. Those numbers are expected to increase
now that the program is being implemented statewide.

The new facility "is mostly here to address the impact of Secure Communities,"
said Robert Helwig, assistant director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
"We do anticipate a surge in detainees."

The immigration debate has grown increasingly polarized, and the Secure
Communities program has become a symbol of that division. John T. Morton, head
of ICE, calls it the agency's attempt to "secure the nation and protect public
safety." But many immigrant advocates, including Enid Gonzalez, a lawyer at CASA
of Maryland, say the program "claims to keep violent criminals off the streets,
but instead it's just incarcerating innocent busboys."

There's one point on which experts across the spectrum agree: Without additional
detention space, the program cannot function. ICE has detained fewer than
one-quarter of the immigrants identified by Secure Communities, a range of
suspected criminals facing charges as varied as misdemeanors and murder.

"The Obama administration can't expect to increase enforcement measures without
increasing detention capacity," said Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies
at the Center for Immigration Studies.

Thankful for new jobs

Enter: the new Farmville center, an expansive, single-story building that fills
a 30-acre clearing in the woods on the outskirts of the town, which is about 170
miles southwest of the District.

Richmond-based Immigration Centers of America built the detention center in the
last days of the Bush administration, as the number of immigrants in federal
custody hit an all-time high. ICA began work on it even before the government
committed to sending detainees there. The town was, and still is, largely united
in support of the detention center, which is expected to bring 300 jobs to the
economically battered town of 7,500.

"They have to send these people somewhere," said Farmville Mayor Sydnor C.
Newman Jr. "Thank God they chose Farmville." The town, which has lost
manufacturing jobs in recent years, stands to receive about $213,000 a year in
revenue from a $1-per-detainee daily fee the company will pay.

Before construction was completed, the project hit a snag: The death of an
immigrant detainee at the nearby Piedmont Regional Jail stirred talk of ICE
negligence, only two years after an internal investigation found that the jail's
medical unit did not meet minimum ICE standards.

Edward Gordon, the jail's medical director and a Farmville council member, still
pushed for the new ICE facility.

Another potential holdup was uncertainty about the new Obama administration's
immigration policy. In his first days in office, President Obama closed one of
the nation's largest immigrant detention centers, in Texas. Would there be a
need for a mid-Atlantic hub for ICE operations?

The administration's large-scale expansion of Secure Communities soon answered
that question. Since October 2008, the program has checked the legal status of
262,930 immigrants who had been charged with crimes in 95 jurisdictions.

In Virginia, most of those immigrants have been detained in local jails, not ICE
facilities. The Farmville center is part of an effort to reduce dependence on
outside facilities that house both citizens and illegal immigrants, Helwig said.


Prioritizing cases

The new facility is also meant to relieve a tension between enforcement and
detention that began in 2007, when Prince William County gave local police the
ability to enforce immigration laws.

Like Secure Communities, that program produced a surge in the identification of
illegal immigrants -- "more than ICE could handle," said Tom Guterbock, a
University of Virginia professor who led a county-endorsed study of the
initiative. After about a year, the crush of detainees in Prince William "forced
ICE to say that they would only take the most serious offenders," Guterbock
said.

Although the agency maintains that "Secure Communities is not restricted by bed
space," as ICE spokesman Cori Bassett said, the recent spike in criminal
detainees forced it to announce that the program will allocate limited bed space
first to violent offenders.

"They say they're prioritizing dangerous criminals, but we continue to see
people suspected of minor crimes who are caught in their net," said Gonzalez,
the CASA of Maryland lawyer. "It doesn't matter if they're convicted or not."

In Farmville, Pamela R. DeCamp, managing attorney for the Virginia Legal Aid
Society, is waiting for a deluge of new clients. The federal government, which
provides funding to Legal Aid, won't let DeCamp represent illegal immigrants.

"But these people have families, and many of them have husbands, wives or
children who are U.S. citizens," she said. "If they move to Farmville to be
close to their loved one, there's a good chance they'll need our help."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; U.s. Immigration And Customs Enforcement; The facility could
grow to hold 1,000 prisoners. It will bring 300 jobs to Farmville, Va.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 29, 2010 Thursday 2:13 PM EST

44: Democrats to unveil immigration plan

BYLINE: Matt DeLong

LENGTH: 199 words



HIGHLIGHT: Just one day after President Obama told reporters aboard Air Force
One that he was unsure immigration reform could pass this year, Democratic
leaders in the Senate plan to unveil a framework for giving illegal immigrants
living in the United States legal status.


Just one day after President Obama told reporters aboard Air Force One that he
was unsure immigration reform could pass this year, Democratic leaders in the
Senate plan to unveil a framework for giving illegal immigrants living in the
United States legal status.

CNN obtained an advance copy of the draft proposal:

"The 26-page draft obtained by CNN attempts to woo GOP senators in part by
calling for "concrete benchmarks" to secure the border before granting illegal
immigrants the opportunity to gain legal status.

Those benchmarks include: increasing the number border patrol officers and U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials, increasing the number of
personnel available to inspect for drugs and contraband, and improving
technology used to assist ICE agents."

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) and
Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) will announce the proposal at a press conference
Thursday.

Meanwhile, House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio) said Thursday that "there
is not a chance" of immigration legislation passing this year. The draft
proposal was nothing but a "ploy" to encourage Hispanics to stay in the
Democratic fold, he suggested.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     September 24, 2010 Friday 8:49 AM EST

Stephen Colbert testifies on Capitol Hill today

BYLINE: Melissa Bell

LENGTH: 128 words



HIGHLIGHT: This is not a joke. Stephen Colbert will be coming to Washington
today, and it won't be to march to keep fear alive. Colbert will be in the
nation's capital to testify before the House immigration subcommittee at a
hearing titled "Protecting America's Harvest." He will be discussing his work
with the United Farm Workers' "Take Our Jobs" campaign, in which the group
counters claims that illegal immigrants take American jobs.


This is not a joke. Stephen Colbert will be coming to Washington today, and it
won't be to march to keep fear alive. Colbert will be in the nation's capital to
testify before the House immigration subcommittee at a hearing titled
"Protecting America's Harvest." He will be discussing his work with the United
Farm Workers' "Take Our Jobs" campaign, in which the group counters claims that
illegal immigrants take American jobs.

Congressmen should expect a show still. Colbert has said he will be testifying
as his television character, the bombastic talk show host. Conservatives
complained it was a huge waste of tax payers' dollars for Colbert to testify. On
his show last night, Colbert promised to waste huge amounts of water and
microphone power during his testimony.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 8, 2010 Friday 3:59 PM EST

Fifteen illegal immigrant sex offenders arrested in Va., D.C.

BYLINE: Rosalind Helderman

LENGTH: 638 words



HIGHLIGHT: Federal immigration officials announced Friday that over the past
five days, they have arrested and initiated deportation proceedings against 15
illegal immigrants who had been convicted of sex crimes and were living in
Virginia and the District.


Federal immigration officials announced Friday that over the past five days,
they have arrested and initiated deportation proceedings against 15 illegal
immigrants who had been convicted of sex crimes and were living in Virginia and
the District.

They also identified 356 more foreign nationals currently incarcerated in
federal, state or local correctional facilities who will also be deported at the
conclusion of their criminal sentences, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Director John Morton announced at a Richmond news conference.

He was joined by Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell (R) and Attorney Gen. Ken
Cuccinelli (R), who praised the operation as an example of effective state and
federal coordination on illegal immigration.

Officials said federal regulations barred them from releasing the names of those
arrested. However, they said they came from seven countries. Thirteen had been
living in Virginia and two in the District.

They included a 40-year Salvadoran who had been convicted of two counts of
sexual battery of a minor and was arrested in Henrico. Also arrested was a
31-year-old Salvadoran arrested in Reston who had failed to register as a sex
offender, as required by law. The man had been convicted of having carnal
knowledge of a child who was between 13 and 15 years old.

"Sex offenders are simply a scourge, and they deserve our full law enforcement
attention," Morton said.

McDonnell and Cuccinelli acknowledged that they have been generally critical of
the Obama administration's immigration policies. But they praised ICE for
stepped-up efforts to identify and deport illegal immigrants convicted of other
crimes.

"On what they've done in the last year, they've been outstanding," said
McDonnell, noting that the Obama administration has this year initiated
deportation proceedings against more illegal immigrants than in any previous
year. "These partnerships ... have been terrific."

McDonnell said the fact that the program only identified 15 such individuals who
had been released out of correctional facilities back into their communities
suggested that the state and federal governments are doing a better job of
finding illegal immigrants in jails and prisons.

In August, McDonnell formally requested federal approval to give Virginia state
troopers broader powers to enforce immigration law. Twenty-six states and eight
Virginia localities have so-called 287g agreements that deputize local law
enforcement officers to act as ICE agents, but the Obama administration has
declined to issue the authority in some areas.

Morton confirmed Friday that McDonnell's request has been received but provided
no new information about whether it might be granted.

"We have it. We received it, and it's being reviewed. Beyond that, I don't have
anything to add," he said.

Morton also said that a recent vote by the Arlington County Board of Supervisors
to opt out of a program that uses fingerprints collected by local law
enforcement agents to help identify illegal immigrants would have no impact on
the program in Virginia.

"Our agreement is with the state," Morton said. "It is a federal enforcement
effort. No one in the department of corrections, no one in Arlington County, no
one in the other jurisdictions of Virginia is being asked to enforce immigration
law. Federal immigration officers -- ICE officers -- are enforcing the law."

He also defended the Secure Communities program as one "transforming the face of
immigration enforcement" and one that rightly focuses energy on finding illegal
immigrants who have committed other crimes.

Cuccinelli added that the coordination between local officials who make arrests
and federal officials charged with enforcing immigration laws "truly has been
seamless. ... I cannot overemphasize just in the first few months how well the
Secure Communities has worked."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Baby steps on immigration reform

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 244 words


Regarding the Feb. 1 news story "With chances dim, advocates push for
immigration bill":

Immigration reform advocates would bolster their chances of success if they
learned to take baby steps. A "path to citizenship" for illegal immigrants is a
bridge too far. Most Americans understand that it's impossible to deport the
millions of illegal immigrants who are  here, but they recoil at the notion of
rewarding illegal behavior with citizenship. And the odds of advocates achieving
their goal today will become even longer in November if Republicans pick up a
large number of seats in the Congress. Advocates should put the "path to
citizenship" on the back burner and fight for a "path to permanent residency"
instead.

Under current law, permanent residents (green card holders) can apply for
naturalization after five years. That's the rub. If advocates would be willing
to accept permanent residency without the right to apply for citizenship after
five years, I suspect much of the opposition to reform would evaporate. Ten
years down the road, advocates could come back and frame their fight in much
more favorable terms -- i.e., for lawful permanent residents to be granted the
"same right" as "everybody else" to apply for naturalization.

In the meantime, illegal immigrants would have been able to move out of the
legal, social and economic shadows and demonstrate to the American people, and
Congress, that they deserve to be citizens.

Nathan Austin, Falls Church

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Latinos skeptical of Obama immigration efforts

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1008 words


As tens of thousands of immigrants and their supporters prepare to demonstrate
in Washington on  Sunday in favor of an immigration overhaul, the Obama
administration is finding its relationship with this largely Latino community
complicated by its mixed and misunderstood record on immigration enforcement.

Compared with  the Bush administration, Obama officials have substantially cut
back on job-site roundups of illegal workers in favor of less controversial
measures, such as auditing employers' books and expanding programs that target
unauthorized immigrants convicted of crimes.

The number of workers arrested for being in the country illegally -- an
administrative violation of immigration law --  through work-site raids dropped
nearly 70 percent, from 5,184 to 1,644 in the 2009 fiscal year, prompting an
outcry from some congressional Republicans.

"At best, it appears as though immigration enforcement is being shelved and the
administration is attempting to enact some sort of selective amnesty under the
cover of prioritization," said Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.) at a House
Appropriations homeland security subcommittee hearing Thursday. "We cannot allow
a preoccupation  with criminal aliens to obscure other critical ICE missions. .
. . At a time of painfully high unemployment, how can we allow illegal
immigrants to take jobs away from Americans who need them?"

Yet Obama officials have not halted work-site roundups altogether, and their
other enforcement programs continue to sweep up tens of thousands of
non-criminal illegal immigrants. This has fueled a growing sense of betrayal
among many Latinos who voted for the president.

Criticism from both sides

John T. Morton,  assistant secretary of Homeland Security in charge of
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE), acknowledged that  Latino
disillusionment can  be as pronounced as  conservatives' unhappiness. "I can get
criticized on the same issue from both sides on the same day," he said.

Among the advocates, much of the frustration stems from the stalled effort to
legalize unauthorized immigrants as well as gnawing doubts about the president's
commitment  to push it through Congress this year. But perhaps no aspect of the
immigration issue arouses more passion than the administration's enforcement
record, because it is the one area over which the president has full control.

"When Obama said [during the campaign] it's un-American to tear a mother from
her child, we believed him," said Angelica Salas, executive director of the
Coalition  for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, which has brought several
hundred protesters to Washington. "We never imagined that a year later, we'd be
denouncing his administration for surpassing the Bush administration on
enforcement."

In recent months, a  drumbeat of reports about small-scale work-site raids by
ICE,  including an operation targeting two Maryland restaurants last week in
which agents arrested 29 foreigners,  has also created an exaggerated impression
of the extent to which such actions still take place.

A recent government report that grossly overstated the rate of deportations
didn't help matters,  incorrectly asserting that deportations were up 47 percent
in Obama's first year.  This month, immigrant advocates seized on that statistic
at a Washington news conference.

But as ICE officials clarified  that day, deportations have increased by 5
percent, reaching 387,790 removals in fiscal year 2009. The increase in removals
is due to a 19 percent rise in deportation of criminal immigrants, but
two-thirds of those removed were still non-criminals, and the total  reached a
record high.

Morton said the statistics reflect ICE's priorities: to protect against national
security threats, remove the most dangerous criminal offenders, and target
unscrupulous employers first, but without ignoring the law against illegal
immigrant workers.

"We cannot be in a position in which the government  only enforces the law in
one direction and turns a blind eye to violations in the other direction," he
said.

Fugitive operations

The record of ICE's fugitive operations teams is also mixed. The teams,  which
search for illegal immigrants who have evaded deportation orders,  have long
been criticized for bursting into the homes of non-criminal immigrants instead
of targeting dangerous criminals. Under Obama, the share of criminal immigrants
arrested through fugitive  operations increased from less than a fourth to
nearly half. Yet non-criminal immigrants continue to account for the majority of
arrests, numbering nearly 20,000.

Immigrant advocates have  also expressed strong reservations about the
administration's shift toward auditing company employment records. The number of
such audits nearly doubled in the fiscal 2009, to 1,444, with 52 companies fined
for employing illegal workers.

Even programs that would appear to focus on criminal illegal immigrants have
aroused the ire of immigrant advocates. They note that under the Criminal Alien
Program, in which ICE agents visit prisons to identify illegal immigrants, more
than half of the 232,796 immigrants targeted for deportation in fiscal 2009
were non-criminals.

Most contentious is a program that deputizes local law enforcement to identify
illegal immigrants and pursue their deportation. Advocates worry that that the
program, known as 287g after the legal provision that created it, lacks
sufficient oversight to prevent local officials who might be prejudiced against
immigrants from targeting them. Similar concerns are growing around another
program, Secure Communities, in which the scanners in cooperating local jails
are set up to automatically check anyone fingerprinted against homeland security
databases.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
favors tighter controls on immigration, said that for all the anger Obama
officials have aroused among advocates, their enforcement approach is necessary.

"They need credibility on enforcement," he said, or any immigration overhaul is
destined to fail.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2010 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration law unconstitutional, court rules

BYLINE: Michael W. Savage

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 489 words


A law approved four years ago by Hazleton, Pa., clamping down on illegal
immigrants and prompting similar moves in towns across the country, has been
declared unconstitutional by a federal appeals court.

The city's Illegal Immigration Relief Act would penalize landlords who rent to
illegal immigrants and employers who hire them.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit on Thursday upheld a lower court
ruling concluding that cities and towns did not have the power to enact such
legislation, ruling that authority over illegal immigration lies solely with the
federal government.

It is the latest in a string of court challenges to local measures aimed at
illegal immigration. A similar ordinance approved by residents of Fremont, Neb.,
has been put on hold by the city, which anticipates a court challenge.

Key sections of a statewide ordinance in Arizona, which allowed police officers
to check the immigration status of suspects stopped for something else, were
held up by a federal judge in July after challenges by the federal government
and others.

The Hazleton measure would have fined landlords who rented to illegal immigrants
and revoked permits from businesses employing undocumented workers.

Chief Judge Theodore McKee's 188-page opinion concluded that the ordinance was
"pre-empted by federal immigration law and unconstitutional."

"We are . . . required to intervene when states and localities directly
undermine the federal objectives embodied in statutes enacted by Congress," he
wrote.

The city's mayor, Lou Barletta, had pushed through the measure after two illegal
immigrants were charged in a shooting in 2006. It was immediately challenged in
the courts and struck down by a federal judge in 2007 before it was enforced.

When he introduced the regulations, Barletta said that illegal immigrants had
brought drugs and violence with them, adding that he hoped to make Hazleton "the
toughest place on illegal immigrants in America."

Barletta, making his third run for Congress, has featured the law prominently in
his campaign.

On Thursday, he pledged to take the battle to the Supreme Court, dismissing the
Philadelphia appeals court as the nation's most liberal on immigration matters.

"The city of Hazleton will continue to pursue this case, not only because we are
right, but also because other communities are counting on us."

Witold Walczak, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of
Pennsylvania, said his organization was "thrilled" by the court's action.

"Today's decision is a pointed repudiation of such anti-local immigrant laws and
a warning to other communities considering similarly misguided legislation," he
said.

Cesar Perales, president and general counsel of LatinoJustice PRLDEF, said the
Latinos who brought the case to court "knew this law was intended to drive them
out of Hazleton."

"The court clearly recognized this danger," he said.

savagem@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 1, 2010 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

No opt-out for immigration enforcement

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 1023 words


The Obama administration is making it virtually impossible for Arlington County,
the District and other jurisdictions to refuse to participate in a controversial
immigration enforcement program that uses fingerprints gathered by local law
enforcement agencies to identify illegal immigrants.

Participation in the program, called Secure Communities, was widely believed to
be voluntary - a perception reinforced by a Sept  7 letter sent to Congress by
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. This week, Arlington joined the
District, San Francisco and Santa Clara County, Calif., in voting to opt out of
the program.

But the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency now says that opting out of
the program is not a realistic possibility - and never was.

Secure Communities, which operates in 32 states and will soon be running
nationwide, relies on the fingerprints collected by local authorities when a
person is charged with anything from a traffic violation to murder. The
fingerprints are sent to state police, and then to the FBI, for criminal
background checks.

Under the two-year-old program, ICE is able to access the information sent to
the FBI. If the fingerprint matches that of someone known to be in the country
illegally, ICE orders the immigrant detained as a first step toward deportation.

Tens of thousands of undocumented immigrants have been removed from the United
States under the program, which the administration has made a centerpiece of its
effort to focus immigration enforcement on criminals. But those deportees
include many thousands who have committed minor offenses or no crimes at all,
which has made the program a source of increasing concern to immigrant rights
groups.

A senior ICE official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to talk about the involuntary nature of the program, said: "Secure
Communities is not based on state or local cooperation in federal law
enforcement. The program's foundation is information sharing between FBI and
ICE. State and local law enforcement agencies are going to continue to
fingerprint people and those fingerprints are forwarded to FBI for criminal
checks. ICE will take immigration action appropriately."

The only way a local jurisdiction could opt out of the program is if a state
refused to send fingerprints to the FBI. Since police and prosecutors need to
know the criminal histories of people they arrest, it is not realistic for
states to withhold fingerprints from the FBI - which means it is impossible to
withhold them from ICE.

The revelation that the program is not really optional stunned Arlington County
Board member J. Walter Tejada (D), who spearheaded a months-long effort to
evaluate Secure Communities with residents, lawyers and county officials. "It is
most frustrating," he said. "Communities were researching this. Attorneys looked
at it pro bono. All of that could have been avoided. People spent all summer
thinking about this."

Tejada pointed to Napolitano's recent letter to Congress, in which she wrote, "A
local law enforcement agency that does not wish to participate in the Secure
Communities deployment plan must formally notify the Assistant Director for the
Secure Communities program, David Venturella." In a briefing paper, ICE also
said that if a city or county did not want to participate, the agency was
amenable to "removing the jurisdiction from the deployment plan."

The senior ICE official said local authorities could opt out of learning the
specific reason why immigration authorities wanted someone detained. But they
would still have to detain the individual.

"If what you say is true, it is extremely disappointing because it means the
District of Columbia now has a blurred rather than a bright line between what
the Metropolitan Police Department is doing and what immigration officers are
doing," said D.C. Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), who recently voted with
the rest of the council to opt out of the program. "We had a bright line, and
that has increased trust and confidence in our police among immigrant
communities. That will now vanish."

Federal immigration authorities have argued that because Secure Communities does
not require local police to probe anyone's immigration status, the program will
not lead to racial profiling. But critics disagreed.

"It makes the local police department an arm of the federal immigration
authority in a way that has not been true in the District of Columbia," Graham
said. "It also distracts scarce police resources - they have to hold people
until ICE can get to them. We want those resources devoted to crime-fighting."

While many law enforcement agencies across the country have embraced Secure
Communities, Graham's concerns have been echoed by some sheriffs and police
chiefs. They fear the program will make undocumented immigrants unwilling to
report crimes.

"In a domestic violence case, it is not that unusual for police to arrive and
arrest both parties and let the evidence get sorted out later" at the police
station, said Eileen Hirst, chief of staff to San Francisco Sheriff Michael
Hennessey, who has been fighting for months to get his county removed from
Secure Communities.

Officers might fingerprint both parties to see whether they have criminal
records, she said. If the domestic violence victim is an unauthorized immigrant,
ICE can tell police to detain him or her.

"By the time the details get sorted out, he or she can be on an ICE detainer and
on the way to a detention facility," Hirst said. "This can make people reluctant
to call police when they should."

Secure Communities is primarily designed to target and deport violent criminals,
but the immigration agency says the program also will identify people who
crossed the border illegally in the past, visa violators and fugitives.

"They may not have a criminal history, but they are a priority for ICE as well,"
agency spokesman Richard Rocha said. "Those individuals are removable aliens.
Secure Communities allows us to remove and prioritize aliens so we can remove
the most egregious offenders first, but others as resources permit."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 9, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

ICE moves to deport 15 sex offenders from Va. and D.C.

BYLINE: Rosalind Helderman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 639 words


Federal immigration officials announced Friday that they arrested and initiated
deportation proceedings this week against 15 illegal immigrants who had been
convicted of sex crimes and were living in Virginia and the District.

They also identified 356 other foreign nationals currently incarcerated in
federal, state or local correctional facilities  who will be deported at the
conclusion of their sentences, the director of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement announced at a Richmond news conference.

ICE Director John Morton was joined by Virginia Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) and
Attorney Gen. Ken Cuccinelli II (R), who praised the operation as an example of
effective state and federal coordination on illegal immigration.

Officials said federal regulations barred them from releasing the names of those
arrested. However, they said they came from seven countries. Thirteen had been
living in Virginia and two in the District.

They included a 40-year-old Salvadoran who had been convicted of two counts of
sexual battery of a minor and was arrested in Henrico County, Va. Another was a
31-year-old Salvadoran, arrested in Reston, who had failed to register as a sex
offender, as required by law. The man had been convicted of having carnal
knowledge of a child between 13 and 15 years old.

"Sex offenders are simply a scourge, and they deserve our full law enforcement
attention," Morton said.

McDonnell and Cuccinelli acknowledged that they have been critical of the Obama
administration's immigration policies. But they praised ICE for stepped-up
efforts to identify and deport illegal immigrants convicted of crimes.

"On what they've done in the last year, they've been outstanding," said
McDonnell, noting that the Obama administration has initiated deportation
proceedings this year against more illegal immigrants than in any previous year.
"These partnerships ... have been terrific."

McDonnell said the fact that the program identified only 15 such individuals who
had been released from correctional facilities into their communities suggested
that the state and federal governments are doing a better job of finding illegal
immigrants in jails and prisons.

In August, McDonnell formally requested federal approval to give Virginia state
troopers broader powers to enforce immigration law. Twenty-six states and eight
Virginia localities have so-called 287(g) agreements that deputize local law
enforcement officers to act as ICE agents, but the Obama administration has
declined to issue the authority in some areas.

On Friday, Morton confirmed that McDonnell's request has been received, but he
provided no new information about whether it might be granted.

"We have it. We received it, and it's being reviewed. Beyond that, I don't have
anything to add," he said.

Morton also said that a recent vote by the Arlington County Board to opt out of
a program that uses fingerprints collected by local law enforcement officers to
help identify illegal immigrants would have no impact on the program in
Virginia.

"Our agreement is with the state," Morton said. "It is a federal enforcement
effort. No one in the Department of Corrections, no one in Arlington County, no
one in the other jurisdictions of Virginia is being asked to enforce immigration
law. Federal immigration officers - ICE officers - are enforcing the law."

He also defended the Secure Communities program as an effort that is
"transforming the face of immigration enforcement" and that rightly focuses
energy on finding illegal immigrants who have committed other crimes.

Cuccinelli added that the coordination between local officials who make arrests
and federal officials responsible for enforcing immigration laws "truly has been
seamless. ... I cannot overemphasize just in the first few months how well the
Secure Communities has worked."

heldermanr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Destined for deportation?

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1252 words


Last Christmas Eve, Maria Bolanos made a decision she would later regret: During
a fight with her partner, she called the Prince George's County police and
sought their protection.

The call for help had disastrous consequences for Bolanos, a 28-year-old
undocumented immigrant from El Salvador. Within months, she found herself
involved in an increasingly controversial immigration enforcement program
designed to deport undocumented criminals.

Bolanos now faces deportation and possible separation from her 21-month-old
daughter, who was born here and is a U.S. citizen.

Her case illustrates what immigrant-rights advocates and some local officials
consider the shortcomings of Secure Communities, the centerpiece of the Obama
administration's immigration enforcement efforts and a program that has helped
generate a record number of deportations.

Secure Communities, which operates in the District, Maryland, Virginia and soon
will be running nationwide, relies on fingerprints collected by local
authorities when a person is charged with anything from a traffic violation to
murder.

In Bolanos's case, the officer who responded to the domestic dispute at her
apartment in Hyattsville later charged her with illegally selling a $10 phone
card to a neighbor - an allegation she denies. The charge was eventually
dropped, but by then Bolanos had been been fingerprinted and found to be in the
country illegally by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

She has been told she probably will be deported after a Wednesday hearing before
an immigration judge in Baltimore.

Officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement said removals during the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 included more than 1,000 murderers, nearly 6,000
sex offenders, 45,000 drug offenders and 28,000 drunk drivers. The number fell
short of the agency expectation of 400,000 deportations but still surpassed the
2009 total of 387,790, the previous record.

Although ICE officials have touted the large numbers of criminals who are being
deported via Secure Communities, they are unapologetic about the significant
number of non-criminals being removed as well. In the past year, more than half
of the 392,000 immigrants deported were convicted criminals; the rest had
overstayed their visas or entered the country without authorization.

"ICE cannot and will not turn a blind eye to those who violate federal
immigration law," said ICE spokesman Brian Hale. "While ICE's enforcement
efforts prioritize convicted criminal aliens, ICE maintains the discretion to
take action on any alien it encounters."

Not surprisingly, immigrant-rights groups have been critical of the
administration's efforts to ratchet up deportations without delivering on the
president's campaign promise to create a path to citizenship for the country's
11 million undocumented immigrants.

But Secure Communities also has come under attack in Arlington County, the
District and other jurisdictions, where local officials worry that it is
discouraging undocumented immigrants who are crime victims and witnesses from
coming forward.

Those concerns are well justified, said Bolanos, speaking through a translator.

"You would have to be crazy to call the police," she said. "I would never call
the police again."

Maria Bolanos works two jobs to pay her bills. She does janitorial work at an
apartment complex Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and pulls a 6
p.m.-to-3 a.m. shift at a restaurant Thursday through Sunday.

"Dora the Explorer" plays endlessly on the TV in her second-floor apartment, in
deference to the wishes of her daughter, Melisa Arellano-Bolanos.

Framed pictures of "The Last Supper" and of Jesus and Mary hang above the dining
table. A photo of Bolanos's partner, Fernando Arellano, hugging Melisa is tucked
into a corner of one of the frames.

Bolanos said she came to the United States in 2004 in search of a better life.
She paid $7,000 to "coyotes" to help her cross the border via the Arizona
desert.

The first time, her party was caught, she said. She was released in the desert
across the Arizona border from Mexico after being fingerprinted and photographed
by authorities - and almost immediately crossed the border again.

She found her way to the Washington area and met Arellano at a restaurant where
she worked. Arellano, now 34, was also undocumented and from Mexico. They fell
in love and moved in together. Melisa was born in January 2008 at Washington
Hospital Center.

The couple's fight began when Arellano came home late on Christmas Eve, Bolanos
said, and it quickly escalated into a shouting match.

By the time police arrived, Arellano had left the apartment.

Police charged Arellano with assault. That charge was dropped when neither
Bolanos nor the police officer showed up in court, according to a spokesman for
the Prince George's states attorney's office.

Months later, the fight forgotten, Bolanos found an arrest warrant waiting for
her on the charge that she was selling phone cards without a license.

The charge eventually was thrown out, but not before she was fingerprinted and
the prints were shared with ICE through Secure Communities.

Authorities determined that she was in the country illegally and ordered her
detained. Her ankles and wrists were shackled, she said, and she was moved to a
detention facility in Upper Marlboro.

Bolanos said she told authorities she was still breastfeeding her daughter, but
that they initially disregarded her plea to be released. After a doctor found
that her breasts were engorged with milk, she was fitted with a locator ankle
bracelet and sent home, pending the deportation hearing Wednesday.

In August, Arellano was booked by police for making an illegal traffic turn.
Police found he did not have a driver's license and arrested him. His
fingerprints went to ICE, too - and he was detained. Now he is also facing
deportation.

"In both of these cases, Secure Communities functioned exactly as it was
designed to, allowing ICE to identify individuals booked into jail for a state
crime and who were also present in the country unlawfully," said ICE spokesman
Hale.

But that's not how immigrant-rights group see it.

ICE is misrepresenting the program in order to implement a nationwide
deportation instrument, said Gustavo Andrade, organizing director at CASA of
Maryland, which has been trying to help Bolanos. "Even one family destroyed
because of this kind of program makes it unacceptable."

Prince George's State's Attorney Glenn F. Ivey also expressed concern about a
phone card charge leading to a deportation proceeding.

"We should target our limited state and federal law enforcement dollars on
killers, rapists, child molesters, human traffickers and violent gang members,"
Ivey said in a statement. "This kind of defendant should not be a high
priority."

If Bolanos and Arellano are both deported, he would have to go to Mexico and she
to El Salvador, meaning Melisa would be left without at least one of her
parents. In El Salvador, Bolanos said, her family has faced death threats from
gangs, and her brother was killed a year ago.

As she talked, Melisa played with the charger attached to her mother's ankle
bracelet. Bolanos spends two hours every day charging the device, which looks
like a BlackBerry attached to her leg with a thick band of black rubber. It
hurts when she walks.

Bolanos wears long jeans to cover the ankle bracelet.

"I'm really ashamed to show it in public," she said. "People see it and think
I'm a murderer. I try to keep it covered at all times."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Cautious look at contentious Pr. William policy

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 1223 words


Prince William County's controversial immigration policy appears to have had
some effect, as the growth of the county's Hispanic population now lags behind
that of other jurisdictions, a report from the University of Virginia states.

The three-year, $385,000 study - released Tuesday by the university's Center for
Survey Research - also found that the county's noncitizen Hispanic population,
legal and illegal, dropped by 7,700 from 2006 to 2008, and that illegal
immigrants accounted for 2,000 to 6,000 of that decline.

The study also found that illegal immigrants were committing a relatively small
percentage of the county's serious crimes, just 6 percent in 2009.

The county's police and elected officials requested the study to look at the
implementation and effects of a policy - adopted in 2007 and modified in 2008 -
that requires police officers to check the immigration status of all people
arrested on suspicion of violating state or federal law.

The original policy directed officers to check the immigration status of people
only if there was probable cause to believe that they were in the country
illegally.

The study indicates that some changes in the Hispanic population can be
attributed to the policy, but the researchers make it clear that the policy's
implementation coincided with the economic downturn, the mortgage crisis and the
decline of the construction industry.

Because of those factors and others - for instance, the county's having modified
its policy to be less controversial and the county's having a well-funded police
department - the lessons of Prince William's experience should be applied with
"great caution" in other places and other times, said Thomas Guterbock, director
of U-Va.'s Center for Survey Research.

"I think the policy had an effect on the ground in the direction it was
intended, but it also came at a time of a very sharp economic downtown, which
also contributed to changes in population ... and migration behaviors," said
Brookings Institution demographer Audrey Singer, who focuses on race and U.S.
immigration policy. "I think the researchers are being very careful with what
they say because they can't get a very hard estimate."

Before 2006, the county saw "explosive" growth in its Hispanic population, which
almost doubled from 2000 to 2005. The growth rate leveled off after the
implementation of the county's new policy, however, and it continued to grow in
the rest of the Washington area, the report says. The report states that
Hispanics are avoiding Prince William and that the county, therefore, did not
succeed in implementing an immigration policy without damaging its reputation as
a welcoming place to live. Most of the county's noncitizen population is
Hispanic, the report says.

"It is quite certain the number of illegal immigrants in Prince William has gone
down since the policy has gone into effect, and Hispanic growth has leveled
off," Guterbock said. "The policy had effects, and it made a splash. But some of
the effects â[#x20ac]¦ are not good things. How you look at it will depend on
where you sit."

Initial distrust of and dissatisfaction with county government has subsided
among Hispanic residents of Prince William, the report says. The change in
attitude can be attributed to adjustments in the policy, community outreach and
the decline in attention paid by the media and groups opposing illegal
immigration.

When Prince William residents were asked about the policy, about 76 percent said
they were satisfied. Many who were dissatisfied said it was because they
fundamentally disagreed with the policy.

"The people who implemented this law are still in power. â[#x20ac]¦ People still
fear being persecuted â[#x20ac]¦ but it is getting a little better," said Prince
William resident Carlos Aragon, 59. "And a lot of people don't want to come to
the county because they are afraid. They say, 'If there is an accident, even if
it's not my fault, they may deport me.' "

The study found that initial fears about racial profiling did not materialize
and that only one lawsuit that mentions racial profiling has surfaced. Those
accusations were dismissed in court.

Aragon, who hosts a Spanish radio show, said he sees things differently.  "I
feel there was racial profiling, and that's the reason why everyone started to
leave," Aragon said. "The Hispanic businesses and malls are empty. You used to
see 100 people at the shopping center, and after the resolution, you'd see five.
You noticed the difference."

While people feared racial profiling when the policy was passed, they also hoped
that the policy would weed out the illegal immigrants who were committing
crimes.

Prince William's overall crime rate has been declining over the past 10 years,
said Christopher Koper, director of research at the Police Executive Research
Forum and co-author of the study. In 2009, only 6 percent of those arrested for
serious crimes were illegal immigrants, Koper said. He said the case was the
same for less-serious crimes.  "We don't see any evidence that the increase in
immigrant population had led to any increase in the overall crime rate," Koper
said. "The policy did not affect most types of crime and disorder."

Koper said aggravated assaults dropped significantly between 2006 and 2008, but
the question remains whether the decline was attributable to changes in crime
reporting or in the number of crimes committed.

Koper said most of the arrests of illegal immigrants in 2009 - about 70 percent
- were for drunken driving, public drunkenness and driving without a license.

Another county goal - to save money by not providing services to illegal
immigrants - was also not particularly successful, according to the study.
Guterbock said there were no "big savings." And the policy has cost the police
department almost $3 million to implement and maintain.

"This is not a free policy; the board allocated substantial amounts of money"
for this, he said. "Don't try this if you don't want to spend some money."

Guterbock said that, overall, the policy was far-reaching and has changed the
composition of the population of the county. Prince William was a "hot spot" for
immigration, and that is no longer the case.

"The controversy did have an [impact], but you have to appreciate the collateral
damage associated with the rhetoric that drove out other legal immigrants," said
Prince William Supervisor Frank J. Principi (D-Woodbridge). "Quite frankly, I
think we have done ourselves some damage."

Prince William Board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), who has spearheaded
efforts against illegal immigration, said he feels otherwise.

"I believe the report confirms what we believed all along," Stewart said. "The
policy we have is fair â[#x20ac]¦ and while there were some temporary blips, we
now have a policy that has overcome any short-term drawbacks."

Stewart said he will send the study to state officials as he continues to push
for immigration reform in Virginia.

Despite the study's warning to apply the lessons learned in Prince William with
caution, Stewart and Supervisor John T. Stirrup (R-Gainesville) said they think
Prince William's policy would be a good one to implement in jurisdictions across
the state.

"You are always going to have a disclaimer," Stewart said. " But we have real
data that shows it worked. â[#x20ac]¦ It is something that can be safely tried."

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 5, 2010 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Deportation quotas are misguided

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 310 words


Regarding the March 27 news story "Immigration officials set quotas to boost
deportation numbers":

Immigration rates for both legal and illegal immigrants have been falling. Just
as the United States is adjusting to the realities of the recession, potential
immigrants are reevaluating moving to the United States.

The decrease in raw deportation numbers should not be alarming. In fact,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement should be lauded for prioritizing the worst
immigration law offenders for deportation.

Setting quotas to deport more illegal immigrants would mean diverting resources
from getting rid of some of the nation's worst criminals to picking the
low-hanging fruit of factory workers and incarcerated offenders who are willing
to leave voluntarily.

Given limited resources, immigration enforcement should be about eliminating the
most significant risks. Officials should provide incentives for the removal of
immigrants with criminal records instead of creating a counterproductive numbers
game.

Brittany Bond, Pittsburgh

--

John T. Morton, assistant secretary for immigration and customs enforcement,
stated that his agency does not have deportation quotas but "performance goals"
for officers to collect 400,000 deportations annually.

These performance goals constitute deportation quotas. In January, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement officers in Texas were told that deporting 46 or more
people per month would garner an "excellent" mark on performance reviews but
that 30 individual cases was "unacceptable."

Deportation quotas are dehumanizing and degrading and undermine due process.
They force ICE officers to view individuals as milestones on their own road to
success instead of parents with jobs.

Mr. Morton should amend performance goals to focus on deporting individuals
convicted of serious criminal convictions.

Sarnata Reynolds, Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

COLORADO

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 488 words

IMMIGRATION

Cardinal compares Ariz. bill to Nazism

Cardinal Roger Mahony, the head of the nation's largest Roman Catholic
archdiocese, has condemned a proposed Arizona crackdown on illegal immigrants,
saying it encourages people to turn on each other in Nazi- and Soviet-style
repression.

The measure wrongly assumes that Arizonans "will now shift their total attention
to guessing which Latino-looking or foreign-looking person may or may not have
proper documents," Mahony said on his blog Sunday.

Gov. Jan Brewer (R) has not indicated whether she will sign the bill, which
creates a new state misdemeanor of willful failure to complete or carry an
alien-registration document. It would also require officers to determine
people's immigration status if there is reason to suspect they're in the country
illegally.

Arizona has an estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants. Proponents of the bill say
it was prompted in part by concerns over the cost of providing services to
illegal immigrants.

But Mahony, whose archdiocese has a huge Hispanic-immigrant population, called
the Arizona measure "the country's most retrogressive, mean-spirited, and
useless anti-immigrant law." Similar laws that were previously passed in other
states have been repealed or struck down in the courts, he said.

-- Associated Press

 HEALTH

Flu medicine saved pregnant women

Quick treatment with flu medicine saved the lives of many pregnant women
stricken by swine flu last year, according to the most complete analysis of
deaths among expectant mothers.

The study, by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, counted 56
pregnant women who died from the virus in 2009, confirming the dangers of the
disease to this group.

The analysis, which appears in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical
Association, found that only one of the U.S. women who died was treated with
Tamiflu or a similar drug within the first two days of symptoms; just four of
those who died got treatment within the first four days. Based primarily on U.S.
figures from the first few months of the global epidemic, the study appears in
Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association.

-- Associated Press

Ex-Detroit mayor may go back to jail: Former Detroit mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick
(D) violated the terms of his probation by failing to report assets and turn
over tax refunds, a judge ruled Tuesday, strongly suggesting he may send
Kilpatrick back to jail. Kilpatrick pleaded guilty to obstructing justice in
2008.

Shuttle landing: Discovery and its astronauts returned safely to Earth on
Tuesday after a 15-day, 6 million-mile journey to the international space
station. Only one more mission remains for Discovery, NASA's oldest surviving
space shuttle.

Pirate trials: Five or more accused pirates are being brought to the United
States for prosecution and will arrive by the end of the week, a federal law
enforcement official said Tuesday.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ed Andrieski /associated Press; Jennifer Smull, 26, a survivor
of the massacre at Columbine High School, visits the graves of victims Rachel
Joy Scott and Corey Tyler DePooter in Littleton, Colo., on the 11th anniversary
of the rampage.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

A hateful law obscures the real Arizona

BYLINE: Phil Gordon

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


As an immigration bill that nationally embarrasses Arizona becomes bad law, our
best hope in my hometown is that the rest of America doesn't do to Arizona what
Senate Bill 1070 requires our police officers to do to people with brown skin:
"profile" them based on stereotypes and insufficient information.

Arizona is not a state seething with hatred, eager to trample the civil rights
of residents in haphazard pursuit of illegal immigrants. Nor are most Arizonans
bigots eager to drag our state back to the 1980s, when Gov. Evan Mecham's absurd
behavior made our home a national laughingstock.

Our state is frustrated. We have become ground zero in the battle over illegal
immigration because of years of lapsed federal border security. This week that
frustration exploded, thanks to hateful political opportunists such as state
Sen. Russell Pearce, the author of the legislation, and Maricopa County Sheriff
Joe Arpaio, who is already under investigation by the federal Justice Department
for alleged violations of civil rights.

Pearce and Arpaio -- two men who are to Arizona law enforcement what George
Wallace was to Alabama government -- care less about capturing human smugglers
and drug cartel gunmen than they do about capturing headlines. And in a state
with a far-right legislature that is increasingly out of step with an
increasingly moderate population, they're also out of step with the rules of
basic civility.

Anyone who points out that S.B. 1070 is surely unconstitutional is viciously
attacked. One of Pearce's many broadsides even maliciously attacked the Catholic
Church. Those unimpressed by the after-the-fact training for law enforcement
proposed Friday by Gov. Jan Brewer are brushed aside. Those who raise a concern
about the legislation (perhaps noting that its "reasonable suspicion" standard
for police stops of those who look illegal is overly broad) have been met not
with facts but with slurs against their character, patriotism and respect for
the Constitution.

We in Arizona do respect the Constitution, just as we respect the hard work and
sacrifices of the many immigrants who have contributed to making our state a
diverse, welcoming place. That respect has driven a series of massive,
passionate counterprotests to this legislation, and it will continue to drive
opposition from the center, the left and the moderate right. The opponents of
S.B. 1070 are many in Arizona, a majority who can no longer be silent if the
price of silence is allowing the vocal, spiteful few to rule: All of us, from
business leaders to police chiefs, elected representatives to church groups,
will continue to pressure Gov. Brewer. As we see it, the governor must call a
special session of our legislature to fix the act's myriad flaws.

Until she does, we will explore every option available to quell the fear and
frustration that have become rampant here. Already, I have called a special
meeting of the Phoenix City Council to establish standing to sue the state on
the grounds that S.B. 1070 unconstitutionally co-opts our police force to
enforce immigration laws that are the rightful jurisdiction of the federal
government.

The opponents of S.B. 1070 will continue to work with Washington to permanently
secure the Arizona border, where last year 500,000 illegal immigrants were
apprehended. Our aim is nothing short of comprehensive immigration reform, a new
policy that cracks down on predators and criminals who have entered the United
States illegally even as it establishes a path to legal residency for
law-abiding immigrant neighbors who want nothing more than the chance to earn a
paycheck and live a productive life.

The Arizona I've known since moving here from Chicago as a boy is the birthplace
of CÃ©sar ChÃ¡vez; it's a free-thinking, hospitable state capable of balancing
great natural beauty and cultures of all sorts. This place we've heard about
lately, the Arizona willing to risk economic boycotts and international ridicule
in the pursuit of an ugly, discriminatory law? I don't recognize it.

But I do recognize those responsible for this humiliating moment. They are
bitter, small-minded and full of hate, and they in no way speak for Arizona.

The writer, a Democrat, has been mayor of Phoenix since 2004.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Battles loom for new Arizona law;
Immigration groups and Mexican officials weighing responses

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper and Paul Davenport

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Arizona's governor is vowing that the state's tough new law targeting illegal
immigration will be implemented with no tolerance for racial profiling, but at
least two advocacy groups are preparing legal challenges and Mexico is warning
that the law could affect cross-border relations.

Gov. Jan Brewer (R) on Friday signed into law a bill that supporters said would
take handcuffs off police in dealing with illegal immigration in Arizona, the
nation's busiest gateway for human and drug smuggling from Mexico and home to an
estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants.

The law requires police to question people about their immigration status --
including asking for identification -- if they suspect that someone is in the
country illegally. It has sparked fears among legal immigrants and U.S. citizens
that they will be hassled by police because they look Hispanic.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund said it plans to challenge
the law, which it said "launches Arizona into a spiral of pervasive fear,
community distrust, increased crime and costly litigation, with nationwide
repercussions."

William Sanchez, president of the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and
Christian Leaders Legal Defense Fund, said his group is preparing a federal
lawsuit against Arizona to stop the law from being applied. The group represents
30,000 evangelical churches nationwide, including 300 Latino pastors in Arizona.

"Millions of Latinos around the country are shocked," Sanchez said.

Current law in Arizona and most other states does not require police to inquire
about immigration status, and many police departments prohibit officers from
asking out of fear of losing immigrants' cooperation in other investigations.

Brewer ordered the state's law enforcement licensing agency to develop a
training course on how to implement the law without violating civil rights. "We
must enforce the law evenly, and without regard to skin color, accent or social
status," she said. "We must prove the alarmists and the cynics wrong."

The measure will take effect in July or August, depending on when the
legislative session ends.

Immigrants unable to provide documentation of legal presence could be arrested,
jailed for as long as six months and fined $2,500. Legal immigrants will be
required to carry paperwork proving their status.

The law also allows suits against government agencies that hinder enforcement of
immigration laws and toughens restrictions on hiring illegal immigrants and
knowingly transporting them.

"It's going to change our lives," said Emilio Almodovar, a 13-year-old U.S.
citizen from Phoenix. "We can't walk to school anymore. We can't be in the
streets anymore without the [police] thinking we're illegal immigrants."

Mexico warned that the law could affect cross-border relations, with Foreign
Secretary Patricia Espinosa saying her country would have to "consider whether
the cooperation agreements that have been developed with Arizona are viable and
useful." Francisco Loureiro, an immigration activist who runs a shelter in
Nogales, Mexico, called the measure "racist" and said it would lead to
additional police abuses.

"Police in Arizona already treat migrants worse than animals," he said. "There
is already a hunt for migrants, and now it will be open season under the cover
of a law." Loureiro said about 250 deported immigrants have been arriving
nightly at his shelter and that most say they were detained by police.

After signing the legislation, Brewer said critics were "overreacting" and vowed
not to tolerate racial profiling.

"We in Arizona have been more than patient waiting for Washington to act," she
said. "But decades of inaction and misguided policy have created a dangerous and
unacceptable situation."

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ross D. Franklin/associated Press; Gov. Jan Brewer (R) discusses
Arizona's immigration legislation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Ariz. measure puts police in tight spot;
Some tasked with enforcing immigration law protest its 'vagaries'

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


Every day, as Sgt. Russ Charlton patrols the south side of Tucson, he encounters
a wide range of this city's residents -- legal, illegal, native-born,
naturalized, just passing through. To him, their immigration status is largely
irrelevant. "People are just people," Charlton said.

But in a city less than an hour's drive from the Mexican border, Charlton and
his fellow officers suddenly are at the center of a roiling immigration debate,
and Arizona's new and controversial immigration law is almost certain to
transform how they do their job.

"We're way too busy," Charlton said of the law's requirement that police
officers question anyone they reasonably suspect of being in the country
illegally. "We don't have enough officers on the street to look for other stuff
like that. If they're not doing anything, they're just being normal people. Why
would I do that?"

Supporters view the law as a common-sense tactic to drive away some of the
state's estimated 450,000 illegal immigrants and deter others from coming.
Opponents foresee harassment, racial profiling and fear. The police find
themselves in the middle.

"We are in a tenuous position as law enforcement," Tucson Police Chief Roberto
A. VillaseÃ±or said, noting that the law allows citizens to sue police agencies
that do not enforce it. "No matter which way we go, there are lawsuits in the
wings. The ones who are going to get beaten up on this most are the law
enforcement agencies."

Although some police groups have endorsed the law, a Tucson patrolman on
Thursday sued Arizona to block it. Martin Escobar, acting on his own, argued
that enforcing the law would impede criminal investigations and violate the U.S.
Constitution.

A Latino religious consortium also filed suit, while national civil liberties
organizations prepared a separate challenge and the Justice Department continued
to consider one. An array of opponents pushed for an economic boycott of the
state and planned nationwide protests on Saturday, even as politicians in
several other states called for similar laws.

On Capitol Hill, partly in response to the Arizona law, Senate Democrats
introduced a "framework" for an immigration bill designed to strengthen security
along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico and create a path to legalization for
millions of undocumented immigrants in the country. House Minority Leader John
A. Boehner (R-Ohio) said there is "not a chance" that Congress will pass an
immigration bill this year.

Police consider Tucson, a city of 550,000, a way station for drugs and people
headed north. Immigration politics have always been complicated here, pitting
those who say undocumented migrants bring crime and tax burdens against those
who say welcoming them is a matter of social justice.

The day after the Arizona legislature approved the bill, the police headquarters
was flooded with phone calls. A typical complaint, according to VillaseÃ±or, was
this: "Hey, there are some Mexicans standing on the corner? You need to check
them out."

The police chief considered the requests "ridiculous" because "a lot of people
stand on street corners." VillaseÃ±or, a Tucson native who joined the police
force in 1980 and became chief last year, said he understands the frustrations
but objects to the law on several levels.

"Too many vagaries," he said. He said that he doubts there is a law officer
"anywhere in the state of Arizona" who can accurately describe how to enforce
the measure and that he fears it will lead to racial profiling, despite the
law's prohibition of the practice.

"It says you can't use race and ethnicity. If you're not paying attention to
race and ethnicity, what other elements are there?" VillaseÃ±or asked. "If it's
95 percent based on race and ethnicity, what's the other 5 percent? No one
knows."

VillaseÃ±or said he is confident in his department's professionalism. While he
described the agency as a microcosm of society, inevitably employing a small
number of biased officers, he said, "I don't think you have police officers
frothing at the bit to go out and do racial profiling."

President Obama, who brokered an effort to curb racial profiling as an Illinois
state senator, warned that the law could lead to civil rights violations, and he
urged Congress to pass an immigration bill to keep other states from enacting
similar measures.

Gov. Jan Brewer (R) said racial profiling will play no part in enforcement, and
she promised strong training. "We have to trust law enforcement," she said.

She said Arizona had little choice but to act because the federal government has
failed to address immigration concerns. Some advocates say the law will give
police a powerful tool in a state deeply affected by the growing ranks of the
undocumented.

"It takes a proactive approach to illegal immigration instead of allowing an
illegal alien to commit another crime first," said Mark Spencer, president of
the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association, which represents 2,500 detectives and
patrol officers.

Charlton, the police sergeant, supervises patrol officers in a sprawling,
heavily Hispanic working-class section of Tucson. After 30 years on the force,
he said his job is "to investigate crimes and help people who need help."

During a recent shift, between responding to a traffic accident and to a report
of a man brandishing a gun, he considered the effect of the new law. Although he
acknowledges that the law provides a potential law enforcement tool, he worries
that people who need assistance or could help solve a crime would hesitate to
call police.

Charlton also wonders where undocumented immigrants arrested under the new law
would be jailed. Then there are questions about paperwork and prosecution and
the coordination among local and federal agencies.

"With our current staffing, that's a lot more to ask," he said. "It sounds like
there's a lot of logistics that have to be figured out."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Peter Slevin/the Washington Post; The new law would require
police officers such as Sgt. Russ Charlton, a 30-year veteran of the Tucson
force, to question anyone they reasonably suspect of being in the country
illegally. "With our current staffing, that's a lot more to ask," Charlton said.

IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

A phony tool to stop illegal immigration

BYLINE: Bruce A. Morrison and Paul Donnelly

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 790 words


The substantive debate over immigration is simpler than many might think: If we
cannot say no effectively, the meaning of the yes that America has always said
to legal immigrants will continue to erode. The principal attraction for illegal
immigrants is jobs. So preventing unauthorized employment is the linchpin of a
pro-American immigration system.

But immigration politics are twisted. People who claim to want answers will
reject real solution so they can continue to make noise about "the problem."
Consider the reaction to the December report from the Department of Homeland
Security evaluating E-Verify. E-Verify, a system for deterring employment of
illegal workers, is a voluntary federal program that is rapidly becoming
mandatory -- so far in Arizona and Mississippi and for federal contractors -- in
which a new hire's work authorization is supposed to be verified electronically.
It began as a unanimous 1994 recommendation of the bipartisan U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform. One of us served on that commission, and the other was its
communications director. Not to put too fine a point on it, the electronic
verification idea behind E-Verify was ours.

And we said 16 years ago that verifying documents but not identities was fatally
vulnerable to fraud.

The substance and the politics of immigration grind along at a glacial pace, so
we weren't surprised to see the DHS-commissioned Westat report on E-Verify note
that it fails to identify illegal workers more than half the time. In fact,
Westat found that the system could fail nearly two-thirds of the time as a
result of illegal workers using identities stolen from American workers.

But the reaction from the anti-immigration side of the debate was largely phony
politics.

Westat documented that the problem is not legal workers who are denied jobs, a
problem that is rare and easily fixed, but illegal workers who are not. The
hiring of illegal workers is very common, and E-Verify has to be fixed to
prevent it.

Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies called the Westat report
proof that "E-Verify's glass is half-full."

Nonsense. The report shows that E-Verify is a glass so thoroughly cracked that
it lets illegal workers through faster than it stops them.

What a powerful incentive for impostor fraud this is: Large, organized criminal
rings steal the identities of legal workers, often U.S. citizens born in Puerto
Rico, and then sell or rent them to illegal workers looking for
Hispanic-surnamed legal worker identities. E-Verify does for identity theft what
Prohibition did for Al Capone.

Fortunately, there is an alternative. It's called NEVA, the New Employee
Verification Act. NEVA has two tiers: a mandatory, wholly electronic system that
deprives employers of any discretion -- a simple red light/green light that a
new hire has cleared or not.

NEVA's second tier is voluntary, with authentication linked to a biometric
identification (such as a fingerprint) to empower individual Americans to
protect their identities from theft. Solid conservatives such as Rep. Sam
Johnson (R-Tex.) and some of E-Verify's long-standing critics, including Rep.
Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), support NEVA because it is a private-sector approach in
which free enterprise will compete to protect privacy and security.

Key "Blue Dog" Democrats in the House, such as Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona and
Dennis Moore of Kansas, also support NEVA's alternative to the epic failures of

E-Verify.

Verifying documents without authenticating identity cannot work. Protecting
identity from theft has to be the first step before any kind of ID system can
work. In fact, empowering individuals to protect themselves from identity theft
makes a national ID card unnecessary.

Yet restrictionists like Krikorian do not recognize documented proof of
E-Verify's catastrophic failure rate in its primary mission as a reason to
support the better system already drafted into legislation. No, they attacked
NEVA proponents, as if insisting on effective verification means not wanting to
close the back door to illegal immigration. E-Verify's apologists are doubling
their bets when they should be throwing in their cards.

We believe in legalization as well as legal immigration. Effective verification
is the key to both. The American public will not support a sensible legalization
plan nor keep the front door open while the back door is off the hinges. That's
why the anti-immigration lobbies are hypocritically insisting on an E-Verify
system that does not work.

Bruce A. Morrison, a Democrat from Connecticut, chaired the House subcommittee
on immigration from 1989 to 1991 and served on the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform. Paul Donnelly served as communications director for the
commission.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 439 words

IMMIGRATION

Thousands to protest for overhaul bill

Thousands of labor, civil rights and immigration activists plan to stage
demonstrations nationwide Saturday, renewing their effort to pressure Congress
into taking up comprehensive immigration  legislation.

The May 1 protests have been an annual ritual on behalf of immigration rights
since 2006, when hundreds of thousands of people, in cities from coast to coast,
turned out to urge Congress to grant legal status to undocumented immigrants in
the United States.

The issue has gained renewed interest since the signing last week of a law in
Arizona that requires  police officers to question people they suspect of being
undocumented immigrants.

The Service Employees International Union, one of the nation's most politically
powerful labor organizations, is staging 16 demonstrations on Saturday,
including one in the District. The rally will begin at 1 p.m. at Lafayette
Square.

-- Philip Rucker

Ariz. faces boycott calls over new law

 Arizona is facing a backlash over its new law cracking down on illegal
immigrants, with opponents pushing for a tourism boycott like the one that was
used to punish the state 20 years ago for its refusal to honor the Rev. Martin
Luther King Jr. with a holiday. By the time voters finally passed a holiday bill
two years later, estimates of lost convention business in the Phoenix area alone
topped $190 million.

"The goal is to as quickly as possible bring to a shocking stop the economy of
Arizona," former state senator Alfredo Gutierrez said Friday as a coalition
called Boycott Arizona announced its formation.

Groups have called on people not to fly Tempe-based US Airways or rent trucks
from Phoenix-based U-Haul. A New York congressman and others are urging Major
League Baseball to move the 2011 All Star Game out of Phoenix. The cities of San
Francisco and Los Angeles have talked of cutting off deals with the state and
its businesses.

-- Associated Press

Blagojevich judge won't subpoena Obama: A federal judge refused Friday to
approve a subpoena calling for President Obama to testify at the political
corruption trial of former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich. The request from
Blagojevich's attorneys fell "very short of authorizing a subpoena for the
president," U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel said.

Florida Republican retiring from Congress: Florida Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite (R)
announced Friday that she would leave Congress at the end of this term, saying:
"I have been troubled by persistent health problems and have come to the
disappointing and sad conclusion that I cannot run for reelection."

-- From staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; M. Spencer Green/associated Press; ILLINOIS Andrew Zimmerman
watches Jim, a 15-year-old grizzly bear, swim in a pool in the new Great Bear
Wilderness exhibit at the Brookfield Zoo. The 7.5-acre exhibit opens May 8.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona and the immigration war

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 627 words


Arizona enacts legislation against illegal immigration [front page, April 24]
that attempts to be responsive to and protective of its citizens, and the hue
and cry on The Post's opinion pages is deafening. Certainly the law is less than
ideal, but at least it's a start. Instead of being castigated, Gov. Jan Brewer
(R) and the legislature should be applauded for having the courage to try to
deal with the problem.

The recent escalation of violence in border states because of Mexico's drug wars
brings more urgency to the matter. Combined with high unemployment and the worst
economy that most of us can remember, the federal government's inaction is
irresponsible and hurts everyone -- legal citizens, legal immigrants and
immigrants here illegally.

While Congress tries to figure out a politically correct way to secure our
borders and deliver a consistent and fair immigration policy, states that can no
longer afford to wait are acting. If I lived in Arizona, I would be glad that my
governor was more concerned with my welfare than with her reelection.

Jan T. McCarthy, Great Falls

--

Eugene Robinson was wrong in stating that Arizona's new immigration law will
"require legal immigrants to carry papers proving they have a right to be in the
United States" ["Act of vengeance," op-ed, April 27]. Legal immigrants with
permanent resident cards (green cards) are required to carry them now.

I should know -- I am a permanent resident. I show this card when required to
relevant officials such as Immigration and Customs Enforcement staffers when I
enter the country (usually they say "welcome home") and to my employer.

I consider it neither a practical nor an ethical problem to show those with a
right to ask that I have been granted the privilege to live, work, obey laws and
pay taxes in this amazing country. Whatever the merits or otherwise of Arizona's
law, I do not consider it racist, unjust, oppressive or mean in principle to be
asked to prove one's right to be here.

Terence Fitzgerald, Washington

--

Most of us recognize the need for rational and comprehensive federal immigration
reform, but the new Arizona law is an abomination. The resulting racial
profiling will be an ugly and shameful spectacle.

Imagine Hispanic American veterans returning to Arizona after courageous
military service to our country, suddenly subjected to random "stops" and
interrogation by Tucson police officers demanding proof of their citizenship --
because someone decided they "look like" they "might" be in the country
illegally. When Arizona had the dubious distinction of being among the last
states refusing to recognize Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday as a national
holiday, the resulting economic losses from a nationwide boycott led to the
policy being repealed. I have the feeling that history is about to repeat
itself.

Meanwhile, the U.S. government has primary jurisdiction over immigration law.
Congress should stop stalling and enact sane and effective legislation that
doesn't threaten individual rights.

Steven Raikin, West Springfield

--

It wasn't long ago when America sang the praises of its freedoms from the
rooftops. I remember a bit of dialogue from the film "The Hunt for Red October"
that is enlightening today:

Capt. Vasili Borodin: "No papers?"

Capt. Marko Ramius: "No papers, state to state."

Capt. Borodin: "Well, then, in winter I will live in . . . Arizona."

Unfortunately, in Arizona today, Capt. Borodin might have to carry his papers.
In fact, Sean Connery, who played Capt. Ramius,  might have to carry papers,
since he speaks with an accent.

There is a problem with illegal immigration in this country, and a drastic need
to fix it. Adopting models from communist Russia, however, is probably not a
viable solution.

Andrew Alexander, Alpharetta, Ga.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A hint of Arizona in D.C.'s approach to illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Ron Hampton; Washington

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 609 words


The passage of Arizona's law targeting illegal immigrants should sound alarms
all over the country. While many have denounced this law as overly harsh, it is
a natural offshoot of a wave of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and
local police partnerships that are rapidly changing the way law enforcement
operates in communities -- with devastating consequences.

The blurring of the roles of local police, who are there to preserve public
safety, and immigration enforcement, a federal responsibility, comes at the
expense of one of the most significant advances in local law enforcement:
community policing.

After 25 years as a D.C. police officer, I can say with confidence that building
relationships with the community is fundamental to preventing and solving
crimes. When trust is replaced by fear of deportation, everyone's public safety
is compromised.

Washington is not Arizona, but that doesn't mean this trend hasn't arrived here.
In November, D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier signed an agreement with ICE to
implement a little-known program deceivingly called "Secure Communities." The
initiative comes on the heels of the failed 287(g) program, an effort to train
local officers to enforce federal immigration law. Like many localities around
the country, the District balked at 287(g). But Secure Communities is nothing
more than 287(g) rebranded.

Secure Communities is carried out at the jails of participating jurisdictions,
but like 287(g) it enlists local police to enforce federal immigration law. It
is touted as merely a technology- and information-sharing program, but this
hardly appears to be the case. The Secure Communities Standard Operating
Procedures show that ICE relies on local law enforcement to question arrestees
and forward information, helping to funnel thousands of people into the
mismanaged and ineffective ICE detention and removal system. Even though the
program is operating in 168 jurisdictions in 20 states, with more on the way,
little information is available on whether it is effective or whether ICE is
acting according to its stated enforcement standards. In fact, we know very
little about the program at all.

But we do know that Secure Communities and other ICE-police collaborations do
not include or secure the "communities" they are supposed to serve. Quite the
contrary. Enforcement efforts such as Secure Communities and 287(g) prevent
police from doing their jobs, because such systematic ICE-police collaboration
damages the core principle of effective community policing: trust. For
communities of color who already have fragile relationships with law
enforcement, trust is a critical tool for ensuring security and safety. Lest we
forget, community policing and community consultations are essential to
effective law enforcement and to helping to minimize profiling in communities of
color.

President Obama recently acknowledged that the erosion of trust between police
and their communities is a threat to fairness and community safety. The
foundation of successful practices like community policing is threatened when
local law enforcement is given the impossible task of enforcing ICE's agenda;
rather, it creates hysteria among people  who might be fearful of detention and
deportation.

Police enforcement of immigration law can only have devastating consequences,
with increased potential for racial profiling and covering up unlawful arrests.
Before we go any further down the road to Arizona, we must put the brakes on
Secure Communities.

The writer, a former community officer with the D.C. Metropolitan Police
Department, is executive director of the National Black Police Association.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration plan shows a shift to the right

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 833 words


As protesters in 80 U.S. cities demanded an overhaul Saturday of the nation's
immigration laws, fueled in part by anger over a measure enacted two weeks ago
in Arizona, a new proposal by Senate Democrats shows how far the debate has
shifted to the right since Congress took up the issue in 2007, advocates on both
sides said.

The Democrats' legislative "framework" includes a slew of new immigration
enforcement measures aimed at U.S. borders and workplaces. It would further
expand the 20,000-member Border Patrol; triple fines against U.S. employers that
hire illegal immigrants; and, most controversially, require all American workers
-- citizens and non-citizens alike -- to get new Social Security cards linked to
their fingerprints to ease work eligibility checks.

The plan's emphasis on "securing the border first" before taking steps to allow
many of an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants living in the United States
to pay fines and apply for legal status was plainly a gesture  to Republicans.
Even so, no Republican is supporting it, not even Sen. Lindsey O. Graham
(R-S.C.), who has been working with Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) in
bipartisan talks over the issue for months.

The Democrats' shift underscores how, in the struggle between enforcement
advocates and legalization backers, the former seem to be gaining, experts said.

Ideas that were hotly contested in ill-fated Senate debates in 2006 and 2007
seem now to be taken for granted, said Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations. "You've seen a lot of movement, and in partisan
terms mostly movement on the Democratic side toward Republican positions," he
said.

The shift is troubling to labor strategists and immigrant advocates, who for
years have seen accepting tougher enforcement as a concession that would allow
them to attain their goal of bringing illegal workers and their families out of
the shadows. "Why would a conservative vote for something if they are already
getting what they want?" said Ali Noorani, a lead organizer of Saturday's
national demonstrations to hold President Obama to his 2008 campaign promise to
take action.

In an effort to show that political energy remains in that cause, more than
100,000 people turned out from Los Angeles to Phoenix to New York, led by
figures including Los Angeles Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa and Catholic
Cardinal Roger Mahony. In Washington, Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and 35 others
were arrested at the White House gates, as hundreds of people held signs such
as, "Don't Kill the American Dream."

But the Senate shift also reflects political reality. High U.S. unemployment, an
anti-Washington mood and violence from Mexico's war against drug cartels are
feeding the public's frustration, particularly in Arizona, where
smuggling-related violence and crimes are on the rise. Referring to the new
Arizona law, a toughest-in-the-nation crackdown on illegal immigration, Graham
said last week it "shows that the country is moving away from comprehensive
[reform], and towards border security."

To both sides, Arizona's law, which makes it a state crime to be in the country
illegally, shows what an "enforcement-first" approach might look like.

"If you enforce the law, people will decide to go home," said Ira Mehlman, a
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which seeks
reduced immigration and applauded the Arizona plan.

Critics of the law, however, said its enforcement will open a window on the huge
social, economic and government costs of removing 11 million people, as well as
the constitutional challenges of doing so without racial profiling or expanding
police powers. Most Americans do not want that, they say, but firm and fair
policies that uphold the law, bolster U.S. workers and the economy, and respect
the nation's immigrant heritage.

For now, analysts generally agree with House Minority Leader John A. Boehner
(R-Ohio), who declared the Senate plan dead this year, absent a political
earthquake. Republicans accuse Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) of
rushing the issue to help his uphill fight for reelection in Nevada, where
Hispanics make up about 15 percent of voters.

Calling Reid's plan a "politically-motivated 'conceptual paper,' " Graham and
Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) said it poisoned the well for bipartisan talks. They
questioned why border security measures weren't funded immediately, and why it
would not seek to end "chain migration" by restricting family reunification
policies that allow close relatives of permanent residents to immigrate.

Advocates say Democrats continue to court centrist Republicans such as Sen. Judd
Gregg (N.H.).

Meanwhile, Republicans such as Graham and former Florida governor Jeb Bush, who
have spoken out against Arizona's law, also suggest the issue isn't going away.
Securing the border now, Graham said, could give him credibility to advance a
bipartisan bill by 2012.

Staff writers Tara Bahrampour and David Montgomery contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sarah L. Voisin/the Washington Post; Protesters gathered in
Lafayette Square on Saturday to demand an overhaul of immigration laws.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Border insecurities

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 767 words


The notion that the first thing to do is "secure the border" between the United
States and Mexico -- and only then worry about comprehensive immigration reform
-- falls somewhere between hopeful fantasy and cynical cop-out. It's a good
sound bite but would be a ridiculous policy.

Fact-based analysis is increasingly out of fashion, however, and so the
border-first hallucination has become popular among politicians and pundits
reacting to Arizona's new "breathing while Latino" law. The measure, which has
sparked angry protests nationwide, orders police to act on "reasonable
suspicion" in identifying, arresting and jailing undocumented immigrants.

Anyone who thinks such extremism could be quelled if the federal government
would just "secure the border" really ought to visit Arizona and take a look. Or
at least consult a map. Or even just read up on what is happening at the border
-- which, according to Pima County Sheriff Clarence Dupnik, "has never been more
secure."

Border crossings by undocumented immigrants have declined sharply over the past
decade. With more Border Patrol agents on duty than ever before, apprehensions
of would-be immigrants along the 2,000-mile border have dropped from a peak of
1.8 million in fiscal 2000 to 556,000 in fiscal 2009. Some of the decrease might
be the result of tougher border enforcement, but the weakness of the U.S.
economy also could be a factor.

There has been much sound and fury about Mexico's rampant drug violence spilling
over into the United States -- much of it wrong, at least as far as Arizona is
concerned. Sen. John McCain, who should know better, said recently that failure
to secure the border "has led to violence -- the worst I have ever seen." Gov.
Jan Brewer said she signed the state's outrageous new law because of
"border-related violence and crime due to illegal immigration." But law
enforcement officials in border communities say this simply is not true.

Roy Bermudez, assistant police chief of the border city of Nogales, told the
Arizona Republic that "we have not, thank God, witnessed any spillover violence
from Mexico." The newspaper reported -- citing figures from FBI crime reports
and local police agencies -- that crime rates along the border have been
"essentially flat for the past decade." Violent crime is down statewide, as it
is nationally.

It should be pointed out there wouldn't be any drug-related violence along
either side of the border if Americans would curb their insatiable demand for
illegal drugs. It also bears noting that the Mexican drug cartels procure their
assault weapons on the U.S. side of the border, where just about anyone with a
pulse can buy a gun.

Still, it's hard to argue, in principle, against making every effort to lock
down the border. The problems come in figuring out how to translate principle
into practice.

In Nogales, the busiest Arizona crossing, there is already a big, impassable
fence; the place is crawling with Border Patrol agents and other police. Most of
those who cross illegally do so in remote areas, where they have to walk for
many miles across scorched, unforgiving desert. Undocumented migrants already
find ways to overcome daunting and potentially deadly obstacles, and it would
take a lot more than rhetoric to make the border truly "secure."

An attempt to design a high-tech "virtual" fence using sensors and cameras has
not gone well. The equipment has not been able to discern people from wildlife.
And even if there were a system that could alert authorities whenever an illegal
immigrant had stepped onto U.S. soil, how would authorities find him or her in
the vast wilderness?

It would be possible to build a 2,000-mile-long Berlin Wall, complete with
watchtowers. But it would be stupid and counterproductive. The U.S.-Mexico
relationship is vital, economically and politically, and the border has to be
permeable enough to permit a massive legitimate daily flow of goods and people.

Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon, who is seeking approval to sue the state to overturn
the new law, told me on Monday that the only solution is comprehensive reform
that provides a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants already settled
here, a legal way for temporary workers to come and go, and increased quotas for
Mexicans who want to immigrate permanently.

The answer is not a bigger wall. And the answer surely is not Arizona's shameful
new law, which, Gordon said, "doesn't do one thing but make our city less safe."

The writer will be online to chat with readers at 1 p.m. Eastern time Tuesday.
Submit your questions and comments before or during the discussion.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Path of Prince William's immigration policy may guide others;
Police told to ask all criminal suspects about their status

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 994 words


Three years after the Prince William Board of County Supervisors approved an
ordinance similar to the controversial immigration legislation passed last month
in Arizona, county residents are still arguing about whether it has achieved its
intended effects. The results might offer some insight into how Arizona's new
law will play out.

The Prince William County ordinance, which initially required police to check
the status of detainees they suspected of being undocumented immigrants, raised
ire among immigrant advocates and drew sharp criticism from the county police
chief, who said it would cost taxpayers more, lead to allegations of racism and
erode police-community relations -- predictions now being made by opponents of
the Arizona law.

The Prince William ordinance was modified in 2008 amid charges that it was
unconstitutional and could lead to racial profiling. In the end, rather than
questioning only people they suspected of being undocumented immigrants,
officers were directed to question all criminal suspects about their immigration
status once an arrest was made.

The county also participates in the U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement
"287(g)" program, in which a cadre of police officers are trained and deputized
to act as ICE officers in making status checks and referring individuals for
deportation.

Arizona was even quicker than Prince William to start tinkering with its law.

It originally required police to inquire about a detainee's status if there was
reasonable suspicion that he or she might be in the country illegally. Last
week, Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) signed follow-up legislation that restricts
officers from using race or ethnicity as the basis for questioning, and allows
them to ask immigration status questions only after a stop or an arrest, rather
than during any contact, as the earlier law had stated.

In Prince William, initial fears about racial profiling have not been realized,
according to preliminary results of a University of Virginia study, that is
underway. But the study also said that it seems unlikely that the county's drop
in violent crime was because of the policy, because illegal immigrants make up a
small percentage of those arrested for such crimes.

Only 2.2 percent of people arrested in Prince William last year were illegal
immigrants, according to police, and most of those committed misdemeanor crimes
and traffic violations.

The study estimated that fewer than 5,000 immigrants, both legal and illegal,
left the county between mid-2007 and the end of 2008. But many of those might
have left anyway, said Audrey Singer, a demographer with the Brookings
Institution, noting that the economic downturn, which started sooner for
lower-wage workers, might have been a factor.

"People were moving, but it's not clear that we can attribute that to the law,"
she said. Phoenix, too, has seen one of the nation's highest declines in
immigrants even before the state legislation was signed, she said.

Proponents of the Arizona and Prince William laws worked with the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, an organization that advocates for lower U.S.
immigration levels, and its legal affiliate, the Immigration Reform Law
Institute, which helped write both laws and is working on similar legislation
for other jurisdictions.

"Like in Arizona, this was a response to overwhelming demand," said Ira Mehlman,
a federation spokesman, of the Prince William law. "People were congregating on
street corners and in Home Depot parking lots; there was overcrowded housing. It
was affecting what most people considered to be quality of life."

Board Chairman Corey Stewart, who championed the Prince William ordinance,
called it a success, saying it has reduced crime and neighborhood complaints,
and reduced the number of immigrants using county services such as public
schools.

"We were trailblazers here; no one else in the country had really adopted an
ordinance similar to this," he said. "I suspect that Arizona's policy will end
up evolving into something similar to what Prince William County ultimately
adopted."

But opponents of the ordinance say it caused immigrants to flee the county,
leaving neighborhoods dotted with vacant houses and sowing distrust of
authorities without making much difference in crime.

"In Prince William we had people moving out, we had property values going down,"
said Nancy Lyall, legal coordinator for Mexicanos Sin Fronteras, an immigrant
advocacy organization that opposed the Prince William ordinance. "The county
paid $1 million to mow the lawns of people leaving the county."

The U-Va. study found that although non-Hispanic whites living in
immigrant-heavy neighborhoods now feel safer, "the policy has resulted in lower
levels of trust in government among Hispanics and African-Americans."

But backers of the Prince William ordinance say the most important victory was
psychological. "The effect of the policy was to send a strong message that
Prince William County would not welcome illegal aliens, and that if you are an
illegal alien, there's a real good chance you're going to be arrested and
deported," said Stewart.

Although the laws are similar, it might be hard to use Prince William's
legislation to predict how Arizona's will be implemented, because Arizona will
apply it across many police departments.

Prince William County Police Chief Charlie Deane said his department worked hard
to train officers and educate the public. "We made it very clear . . . that we
were going to focus on individuals who had committed crimes, and that we were
going to protect crime victims and witnesses regardless of their status, and we
were not going to do racial profiling, roadblocks, sweeps or employment
investigations."

In Arizona, some police have enthusiastically supported the new law while others
have expressed concerns. Three lawsuits have been filed, including two by police
officers, challenging the Arizona law, and boycotts of the state have been
announced.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

More laws are enacted to help, not restrict, illegal immigrants;
Analysis of 50 states' actions reveals a more accommodating attitude

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 725 words


Despite recent national attention on such laws as the Arizona  measure aimed at
cracking down on illegal immigrants, a study released Monday by the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars shows that across the country, more
laws expanding immigrants' rights are enacted than those contracting them.

The study, "Context Matters: Latino Immigrant Civic Engagement in Nine U.S.
Cities," found that areas long accustomed to an influx of immigrants, including
close-in jurisdictions of the Washington region, tend to focus more on trying to
accommodate them rather than restrict them.

"The reality is that they're here already, so most cities and counties are
trying to figure out how they can best incorporate these immigrants," said
Andrew Selee, director of the Woodrow Wilson Center's Mexico Institute and a
co-author of the report. In states including Texas, California and Illinois, he
said, "There is a sense that immigrants are a productive part of society."

An analysis of 1,059 immigration-related bills in 50 state legislatures in 2007
found that 19 percent of 313 bills expanding immigrant rights were enacted,
while 11 percent of 263 bills contracting rights were enacted, the report says.

Bills contracting immigrant rights included those such as one approved that year
in Prince William County allowing police officers to check people's immigration
status if there was probable cause to believe that they were in the United
States illegally. The bill was later amended to require a status check for all
arrestees.

Bills expanding immigrant rights included a measure in New York that eliminated
citizenship requirements for such occupations as police officer, firefighter and
teacher; a Texas bill that made it an offense to obtain labor or services by
threatening to report someone to immigration; and a Nevada bill that  designated
new crimes and penalties around involuntary servitude and human trafficking,
said Xochitl Bada, an assistant professor in the Latin American and Latino
Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago and one of the report's
authors.

The number of immigrant-related bills introduced overall has soared in recent
years, she added, from 300 in 2005 to 1,500 last year.

The Washington region, one of the nine metropolitan areas that was studied,
takes a broad range of approaches to immigrants, from more-restrictive
ordinances in Prince William and Loudoun counties to more-accommodating laws in
Arlington and Montgomery counties.

The Washington pattern  reflects the study's findings that areas with longer
histories of immigration are more accommodating and that the same metropolitan
area can have vastly divergent approaches to immigrants.

Often, a city's suburban areas have seen immigrants move in more recently and
are more inclined to introduce restrictive laws, while the center of a city may
be more accustomed to them and have an infrastructure and social services
designed to accommodate them, Selee said.

"Places like Prince William and Herndon have seen a fast upsurge in the number
of immigrants, whereas the near-in areas, Montgomery County, Prince George's,
and Arlington and Alexandria have had a long tradition of immigration," he said.

Over time, he said, communities' views on immigration tend to shift. "What today
seems so controversial, tomorrow may become much less so. Very soon, communities
learn how to take advantage of immigration."

The study also found that immigrants tend to become more civically engaged in
the face of a threat, such as a harsh immigration law, and that Latinos have
become increasingly involved  politically in recent years, with their voter
registration surging 24.7 percent between 2004 and 2008.

In Washington, where the Latino population has grown rapidly over two decades,
Latino immigrants are more likely to be citizens and have higher rates of
education, workforce participation and homeownership than the national average,
the report says.

They also tend to be better-organized politically, said Robert Donnelly, also of
the Woodrow Wilson Center's Mexico Institute and a co-author of the report.

"The fact that the nation's capital is here makes the D.C. area especially
relevant in terms of immigrant political participation," he said, noting that
Latinos in the Washington area have access to national media and visible sites
for demonstrations.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Administration urges review of Ariz. law on hiring illegal residents

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 405 words


The Obama administration on Friday urged the Supreme Court to review and set
aside an Arizona law that sanctions employers who hire illegal immigrants,
saying it would disrupt the "careful balance" that Congress struck in federal
immigration law.

The act in question is not the strict new Arizona law that President Obama and
other members of his administration have criticized. That measure authorizes
police to question the immigration status anyone who appears to be in the
country illegally.

The law being challenged, the Legal Arizona Workers Act, imposes tougher
sanctions than federal law for hiring illegal workers. If the court chooses to
hear the case, its ruling could show how receptive the justices would be to
arguments that enforcing immigration laws is a federal responsibility that
cannot be usurped by the states.

The Arizona act is being challenged by a coalition of organizations that include
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Hispanic groups and civil libertarians. Business
groups want to head off a proliferation of conflicting state laws on employer
sanctions, while others worry that the penalties would discourage companies from
hiring even those legally in the country.

The administration, in a brief submitted by Acting Solicitor General Neal
Katyal, said federal law should preempt state efforts.

The Arizona law would "disrupt a careful balance that Congress struck nearly 25
years ago between two interests of the highest importance: ensuring that
employers do not undermine enforcement of immigration laws by hiring
unauthorized workers, while also ensuring that employers not discriminate
against racial and ethnic minorities legally in the country," Katyal wrote.

The court asked the government in November for its view of the case. The
response might have been delayed by two factors. Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano is the state's former governor and was the first defendant when
the challenge was filed. And Obama selected Solicitor General Elena Kagan this
month as his choice to replace retiring Justice John Paul Stevens.

Separately, Justice Department officials met Friday in Phoenix with Arizona
Attorney General Terry Goddard and aides to Gov. Jan Brewer (R) to express
strong reservations about the new law, which goes into effect July 29. The
administration fears the law could lead to widespread racial profiling.

The case the court is considering is Chamber of Commerce v. Candelaria.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 24, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

States, localities take immigration policy into own hands;
Nebraska town in spotlight Not all proposals are aimed at clamping down

BYLINE: Michael W. Savage

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 686 words


With widespread attention focused on Arizona's tough new law against illegal
immigration -- and a measure approved this week in the small town of Fremont,
Neb. -- similar proposals are under consideration across the country.

Five states -- South Carolina, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and
Michigan -- are looking at Arizona-style legislation, according to the National
Conference of State Legislatures. NDN, a Washington think tank and advocacy
group, said lawmakers in 17 other states had expressed support for similar
measures.

Since it was adopted in April, the Arizona legislation, which gives law
enforcement officers the power to check the immigration status of anyone
suspected of being in the country illegally, has triggered bitter debate and
been challenged in court by advocacy groups. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton said last week that the Justice Department plans to sue Arizona over the
law, although a department spokesman has said the matter is under review.

This week, the spotlight shifted to rural Fremont, which narrowly passed an
ordinance that would outlaw hiring illegal immigrants or renting property to
them.

In the first three months of this year, legislators in 45 states introduced
1,180 bills or resolutions dealing with immigrants, an unprecedented number,
according to the NCSL. By the end of March, 107 laws and 87 resolutions had been
adopted by 34 states, with 38 bills pending. Not all of the proposals were
designed to clamp down on illegal immigrants. Ann Morse, director of the
Immigrant Policy Project at the NCSL, said they represented "a spectrum" of pro-
and anti-immigration measures.

"When I talk to legislators about what they're doing in the state, they say this
is their way of signaling they want federal immigration reform to happen -- that
they care deeply about the issue, they're working within the parameters they
have and sometimes at the edge, trying to get federal attention," she said.

Last month, the Massachusetts Senate amended its budget bill to require state
contractors to confirm that their workers are in the country legally. Earlier,
the Massachusetts House narrowly rejected a proposal to restrict public benefits
to illegal immigrants.

In Pennsylvania, an Arizona-style bill is in the pipeline. Although police
officers must have a separate reason to stop someone, the proposal would direct
them to "attempt to verify the immigration status of suspected illegal aliens."

South Carolina is set to discuss an almost identical measure next year. And in
Albuquerque, Mayor Richard Berry instituted a similar policy, which was upheld
by a council vote.

Anti-illegal immigrant measures in Hazelton, Pa., and Farmers Branch, Tex., are
being challenged in the courts.

In Fremont, those on both sides agreed that the town's new ordinance, which will
take effect in July, marked a national pattern of local communities taking
immigration policy into their own hands.

"I'm afraid this is part of a larger, nationwide trend, most obviously typified
by what has happened in Arizona," said Amy Miller, the legal director of the
American Civil Liberties Union in Nebraska, which is seeking an injunction
against the Fremont law. "There is no rational reason for Fremont to be worried
about protecting our border. But it is a community, like many in rural Nebraska,
where the only population growth has been in new immigrants, many of them people
of color."

"What will this lead to? Other municipalities in other states enacting their own
laws," said Fremont council member Sean Gitt, who said he decided to support the
measure after it was approved by the community.

"Fremont is an example of 'If Washington won't, Nebraskans will,' " said Bob
Dane, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
supports tougher immigration enforcement. Others note that the economy may
determine whether other jurisdictions follow Arizona's lead.

"The big, overriding issue for nearly every state is the state of their
budgets," said Morse. "Taking on additional law enforcement costs and court
challenge costs is not at the front of their task list."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 4, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Advocates for immigrants also turning to states;
Inaction by Congress on reform fuels effort to counter Ariz.-style bills

BYLINE: Michael W. Savage

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 834 words


Advocates demanding stricter rules against illegal immigration -- including
those backing Arizona's new law clamping down on undocumented immigrants -- have
long argued that state lawmakers have been forced to act because of Congress's
reluctance to take the lead.

But with little sign that Congress will act on comprehensive immigration reform
this year, advocates for immigrants are also taking matters into their own
hands. Like their political opponents, they have turned to their state
legislatures to fight back.

In states from Pennsylvania to Utah, a battle of bills has been taking place
between those who want to reproduce the Arizona law, which hands police more
power to detain anyone they suspect of being in the country illegally, and those
who want  to extend further rights to immigrants.

Lawmakers have been using employment, health and anti-discrimination bills to
counter a  wave of anti-immigrant legislation. Others have introduced measures
specifically designed to keep an Arizona-style law from ending up on their
governor's desk.

Most are members of State Legislators for Progressive Immigration Policy, a
group of 54 legislators from 28 states pushing pro-immigrant measures.
Membership has jumped 50 percent since the Arizona law was enacted.

In Pennsylvania, state Sen. Daylin Leach (D) introduced a bill designed to block
an Arizona-style law.  Leach's measure would specifically bar police officers
from accepting responsibility for enforcing federal immigration laws.

"Local police are supposed to stop street crime, which becomes more difficult to
do if the people in the neighborhood you're policing don't trust you because
they fear you will be investigating their immigration status," he said. "They're
less likely to cooperate and offer tips, and adversely impact on the police to
do the job they've always been entrusted to do."

He said there is too little time to pass his bill this year, but it would help
block legislation designed to copy Arizona's example. That rival bill, which has
also been introduced,  would direct police to "attempt to verify the immigration
status of suspected illegal aliens" who have been stopped for a separate reason.

Another tussle has emerged in Utah, where Republican lawmakers have pushed an
Arizona-type bill. More-liberal lawmakers are fighting back. State Sen. Luz
Robles (D) said she will reintroduce a bill next year designed to boost
health-care coverage for immigrant children.

Currently, they have to wait five years  to qualify for publicly funded health
care. Her bill would remove the waiting period.

"We framed it as a health-care issue," Robles said. "We faced a budget problem,
but not one on the policy itself. It's important for us to have all the children
in the state covered."

But she was pessimistic about the direction in which her state was traveling on
immigration. "Sometimes the state wants to make a strong signal to Washington,"
she said. "I, unfortunately, have to say I foresee the state of Utah running
with an Arizona copycat-law bill."

Joe Bolkcom, a Democratic lawmaker in Iowa's Senate, has championed tougher
employment laws to make his state more immigrant-friendly. His bill would
require employers to put in writing the wages they agreed to pay workers and
would increase fines against businesses who fail to pay those earnings. Bolkcom
said the measures would have a major impact on the meatpacking industry, a major
employer of immigrant labor.

"This legislation really targeted those employers who would take advantage of
any Iowan workers, including newcomers," he said. "It's essentially a
zero-tolerance policy, so we don't become a state where people are taken
advantage of, whether they're new to our state or long-term Iowa workers."

A Michigan lawmaker provoked a war of words with her Republican counterparts in
March after proposing pro-immigrant legislation. Democratic state Rep. Rashida
Tlaib's bill seeks to protect undocumented immigrants from being denied
compensation should they be injured at work.

Republican state Rep. Dave Agema, who has been pushing since last year for
further anti-illegal immigrant measures, immediately castigated her. "I have
been working for years to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs, benefits
and driver's licenses," he said. "Now the Democrats have proposed workers' comp
benefits for illegal aliens."

Members of the state lawmakers group welcomed President Obama's speech Thursday,
in which he acknowledged that Washington had been slow to act on immigration
reform. But the legislators have also called on the president to take firm
action.

"Comprehensive immigration reform lies squarely in the hands of the federal
government," the group said in a statement Thursday. "SLPIP will continue to
advance forward-thinking state-based approaches to immigration. But this
leadership from the states is not enough. Congress and the president need to
step up to their responsibility to craft common-sense immigration reform that
honors our American values."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Cody Duty/associated Press; Khuteja Farheen, from left, Kamala
Tamang Inman and Ruchi Dilbaghi pledge the Oath of Allegiance at a
naturalization ceremony in Texas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Why good fences make bad policy

BYLINE: Peter Schrag

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 1471 words


Even before 2007, when the last attempt at comprehensive immigration reform was
killed in the Senate, immigration restrictionists made "sealing" the
U.S.-Mexican border a precondition for supporting legalization of the more than
11 million illegal immigrants already in the United States. For a lot of
Americans, this idea has been orthodoxy ever since.

Now, with immigration reform again on the table, President Obama has duly taken
up the call for a stronger border. In his speech on immigration earlier this
month, he lamented the "porous" and "broken" state of U.S. borders, and he
described controlling them as an "obligation" and a "responsibility," arguing
that the nation has "more boots on the ground near the Southwest border than at
any time in our history."

More than 670 miles of border fences, walls, bollards and spikes that Congress
decreed in 2006 at an estimated cost of $4 billion (plus future maintenance) are
almost completed. The Border Patrol, which was increased from 9,000 agents in
2001 to 20,000 in 2009, costs an estimated $4 billion annually.

Throw in the cost of occasional deployments of the National Guard, as Obama has
ordered again; the cost of electronic sensors, surveillance aircraft, training
of local police; the cost of detaining, incarcerating and deporting illegal
immigrants; and the countless other expenses associated with border security,
and the bill runs us nearly $10 billion a year.

But will more boots really seal the border? Immigration reform has a long
history of unintended consequences: More than two decades of increased
enforcement since the passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986
has done little to reduce the number of illegal immigrants. In fact, its seems
to have increased their numbers. Meanwhile, the question of jobs, which are the
true driver of legal and illegal immigration, has been largely neglected.

Princeton University sociologist Douglas Massey pointed out nearly a decade ago
that measures to secure the border seemed to produce almost the opposite of what
was intended. By making the northward crossing more dangerous and expensive,
Massey and co-authors Jorge Durand and Nolan J. Malone wrote in 2002, the border
buildup discouraged seasonal laborers from going back to Mexico when they were
not working.

With increasing border enforcement, workers who used to shuttle between jobs in
California or Texas and home in Zacatecas or MichoacÃ¡n simply began to stay put
and sent for their families, becoming permanent, if sometimes reluctant,
residents. According to Massey, post-IRCA border enforcement may have increased
the size of the permanent Mexican population in the United States by a factor of
nearly four.

More unintended consequences: The anti-immigrant backlash that sparked Arizona's
string of anti-immigration legislation -- the new law seeking to drive illegal
immigrants out of the state most famously among them -- was produced in large
part by tighter border controls in Texas and California. That enforcement
squeezed the smuggling of immigrants and drugs into Arizona's Sonoran Desert and
mountains.

As noted by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California among many
others, the element missing from this picture is that immigration, both legal
and illegal, is driven more by the economy than it is restrained by border
enforcement.

That's not all that different from the immigration patterns of the past century
and a half, when immigration levels were almost invariably trailing indicators
of the U.S. economy and its sometimes severe worker shortages. One hundred fifty
years ago, after the dislocations and slaughter of the Civil War, some states
even sent agents to Europe to recruit workers. When times were good, we beckoned
to immigrants; when they were bad, we tried to expel them. "We wanted workers,"
says Philip Martin, an immigration economist in California, "but we got people."

Americans have historically been ambivalent about new arrivals. Ever since
colonial days, immigration and immigration restriction have been tightly wound
around each other like a double helix. In the same polls in which Americans
express support for Arizona's immigration legislation, they also say that by
paying fines and back taxes (which most already pay) immigrants should have the
right to be legalized. Some places accept, even welcome, illegal immigrants.
Some try to expel them. My own state of California grants illegal immigrants
relatively low in-state college tuition but denies them driver's licenses.

In the past three years, the U.S. population of illegal immigrants has declined,
perhaps by as much as 10 percent, from about 12 million to 11 million.
Anti-immigration groups such as the Center for Immigration Studies credit
tougher border and workplace enforcement for much of that decline. But some, if
not most, has almost certainly been driven by the recession, beginning in the
construction industry and continuing in many other sectors that employ large
numbers of immigrants. During those three years, more immigrants returned to
Mexico than came north.

None of this means giving up on border control, especially if it's focused on
drugs and other criminal activities. But if the objective is to reduce the
attraction of U.S. jobs for undocumented workers -- about a third to half of
whom, in any case, have overstayed their visas, not crossed the border illegally
-- it requires different strategies.

In the past year, the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has
conducted "silent raids" -- auditing farms and businesses to check employee
records and then, using the threat of large fines, forcing them to fire illegal
immigrants. But given the dependence of tens of thousands of employers on such
workers -- about 60 percent of U.S. farm workers are believed to be undocumented
-- it's hard to imagine that quiet raids will be enough to drive out many of
those 11 million illegal immigrants.

Probably the most promising workplace strategy, which has hardly been tried,
would be far more rigorous enforcement of labor laws on wages, hours and
overtime, and of worker safety laws. That would sharply reduce employer
incentives to hire and exploit illegal immigrants. In a small step in that
direction this summer, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis moved to crack down on the
employment of young children in agriculture. But that's barely a start.

For the long term, immigration scholars such as Robert Pastor of American
University argue that in order to deter illegal immigration we should shift
funding from ever-tighter border control to collaborative efforts to bolster
Mexican infrastructure and economic development. He cites the economic aid the
European Union provided to Spain and Portugal when it admitted those countries
in 1986: This aid seems to have effectively reversed the flow of immigrants from
those nations to the rest of Western Europe.

The best way to pursue such a strategy, Pastor argues, would be to create
something he calls "the North American Community." This body, which would
include Canada, the United States and Mexico, would manage a range of matters,
from crime control, drugs and continental security to transportation, the
environment and labor.

But for the millions who cross between the United States and Mexico every day to
work, study and shop, and for those involved in thousands of joint commercial
and cultural institutions, the border is already more a region than a line.
Thus, in many ways what Pastor proposes via formal institutions already exists
on the ground.

"Our two largest trading partners are not England and China," he pointed out in
2007, "but Canada and Mexico. The two largest sources of energy imports are not
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, but Canada and Mexico. . . . There are roughly 500
million legal crossings of both borders each year, and the preferred tourist
destination of Canadians, Mexicans and Americans is their neighbors in North
America."

Given the world's integrated economy, and the rapidly changing nature of, and
constraints on, the nation-state -- think terrorism, or the flow of illegal
drugs, or the regulation of multinational corporations, or the Internet, or
pollution -- no wall, moat or border patrol will be large or wide or deep enough
to fully stop the flow of immigrants.

Trying to tightly seal any border will almost inevitably bring unintended
consequences -- in reluctant illegal residents, in increased offshoring of
industry and jobs, in cross-border smuggling and crime or, as with Arizona's new
immigration law, in a whole new set of foreign policy problems.

"Show me a 50-foot wall," Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said when
she was governor of Arizona, "and I'll show you a 51-foot ladder."

Peter Schrag is the author of "Not Fit for Our Society: Immigration and Nativism
in America."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Fred Greaves/reuters; A wall along the U.S.-Mexican border near
Campo, Calif. With increasing border enforcement, workers who used to shuttle
between jobs in California or Texas and home in Zacatecas or MichoacÃ¡n began to
settle permanently.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Calls for his resignation 'just part of the territory';
John Morton leads U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 913 words


On a typical day, John Morton finds himself under assault from the political
right for failing to crack down on illegal immigration and from the left for
cracking down too aggressively.

And that's a good day.

Morton holds what might seem like one of the federal government's most thankless
jobs: director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE. He is
a key public face of Obama administration policy on a bitterly divisive issue,
and the divide has only grown in the weeks since the Justice Department sued
Arizona over the state's tough new immigration law.

If that law is allowed to take effect July 29, Morton and his agency will be
even more in the center of the controversy: His agents will take most of the
calls from Arizona authorities seeking to turn illegal immigrants over for
deportation. Morton has already said they won't necessarily respond, drawing a
rebuke from Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) on Fox News.

"I am not going to shut down immigration enforcement in the 49 other states of
the union to commit to responding to every potential immigration violator in the
state of Arizona,'' Morton reaffirmed in a recent interview in his Southwest
D.C. office overlooking his native Northern Virginia. ICE, he said, has the
resources to deport about 400,000 illegal immigrants a year nationwide -- and
there are an estimated 460,000 in Arizona alone.

"We can't respond to each and every call," he said, adding that agents will
focus primarily on immigrants with criminal records.

Morton, 43, is a boyish-looking former career federal prosecutor who took over
ICE last year in May. Described by colleagues as earnest and apolitical, he said
he is seeking a middle ground on the debate, enforcing immigration laws while
calling for comprehensive reform in Congress and viewing legal immigration as "a
good thing for our country.''

"You develop a thick skin in a job like this," said Morton, who admits to
reading many of the brickbats that come his way but says they don't consume him.
"I'd imagine that for some other senior leaders in government, the day when
someone calls for their resignation would be the day they'd remember throughout
their career. That's just part of the territory here.''

Sure enough, Morton and his agency evoke strong opinions from all sides. Crystal
Williams, executive director of the pro-immigrant American Immigration Lawyers
Association, faults him for overaggressive deportations and moving too slowly on
promises to reform the immigrant detention system.

"If he's throwing people out without a lot of focus, he's hearing about it from
the left, and that's what's going on here," she said. "If he's not doing enough
enforcement, he'll hear about it from the right.''

Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), a persistent critic, accused Morton of "letting
known illegal immigrants take American jobs and turning a blind eye to those who
overstay visas or illegally cross our border.''

Similar criticisms are voiced by the American Federation of Government Employees
Council 118, which represents about 7,000 ICE workers and recently cast a vote
of no confidence in Morton's leadership. The union accuses Morton of abandoning
ICE's "core mission" of enforcing immigration laws and focusing on "policies
related to amnesty."

Morton's defenders are equally fervent. "We often say we are a nation of
immigrants and a nation of laws. John brings a great deal of sensitivity to both
aspects of our identity," said Alejandro Mayorkas, director of U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services, which, like ICE, is part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

Doris Meissner, who worked with Morton when she was commissioner of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, known as the INS, in the 1990s, chalked
up his difficulties to the growing pains of a young agency and "resistance to
change" within it. She credited Morton for taking on detention reform and for
trying to focus ICE on "serious and complex criminal investigations."

Though public perceptions of ICE are dominated by its enforcement of immigration
laws, its agents also investigate terrorism, narcotics smuggling, child
pornography and other criminal cases. ICE was the principal investigative agency
for nearly half the intellectual property theft cases the Justice Department
filed in 2009, federal figures show.

ICE was created by the 2002 merger of the immigration service and the U.S.
Customs Service, which gives it the wide authority customs had to stop
contraband from entering or leaving the country. Morton is trying to increase
awareness of ICE's criminal investigative work, saying it is "poorly understood
and poorly celebrated.''

Born in Scotland, Morton grew up in Loudoun County as the son of an American
father and an immigrant mother -- a British citizen who still has her green
card. His career track, after law school and a Peace Corps stint in Africa, was
immigration-focused: He worked for INS, for a Justice Department team that ran
INS, as a federal prosecutor in Alexandria and as a senior official in Justice's
Criminal Division during the Bush administration.

In Alexandria, Morton prosecuted immigration-related terrorism cases after the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, including against defendants who supplied the Sept. 11
hijackers with false Virginia identification.

"He was a leader, was frequently in my office with ideas,'' said Paul J.
McNulty, U.S. attorney at the time. "He's not the kind of guy who just sits
behind a desk and processes piles of papers.''

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Bill O'leary/the Washington Post; John Morton, director of ICE,
is a key public face of Obama administration policy on a bitterly divisive
issue.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 22, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Why Arizona had to be challenged

BYLINE: Doris Meissner and James W. Ziglar

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 938 words


The Obama administration had no choice but to challenge the constitutionality of
Arizona's far-reaching immigration law, whatever the litigation's eventual
outcome.

Our experiences administering the nation's immigration system, under Republican
and Democratic presidents, have convinced us that the challenge to Arizona's
statute is essential to clarify, once again, who in our federal system has
responsibility for setting immigration policy.

At first blush, Arizona's approach may appear to be a rational response to its
burdens as the key gateway for illegal immigration at the Southwest border. But
since the mid-1800s, the Supreme Court has upheld and expanded the federal
government's primacy in establishing and enforcing immigration policy.  When
Arizona lawmakers passed S.B. 1070, a significant challenge to this  settled
constitutional principle, they virtually guaranteed that the federal courts
would have to judge the constitutionality of their actions.

Allowing states to set their own immigration policies fails to solve the overall
problem of illegal immigration and violates the supremacy clause of the
Constitution. The federal government can permit states and localities to act on
its behalf in immigration matters, but it must expressly delegate that
authority. To that end, Congress passed legislation in 1996 that allows the
Department of Homeland Security to make agreements with states and localities --
called 287 (g)s for the applicable code section -- to assist in immigration
enforcement.

DHS has signed more than 70 such agreements, including with the state of Arizona
and some of its municipalities. This program, while controversial, appears to be
constitutionally sound because it supplements -- not supplants -- federal
authority based on a specific delegation. Arizona's controversial law, however,
appears to go well beyond the intent of 287(g), asserting for itself even
greater powers to fashion immigration policy. Its approach invites a patchwork
of inconsistent state policies, with results as untenable as having states set
their own defense or foreign policies.

Likewise, S.B. 1070 impedes the federal government's ability to meet law
enforcement objectives set by Congress and the president to protect public
safety broadly. Such duties require a coordinated federal system that reconciles
competing demands with available resources and shifting priorities. In the
1990s, for example, immigration policy focused on strengthening border security.
After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, priorities shifted to national security
targets. More recently, the administration has directed resources toward helping
Mexico eliminate drug cartel violence. Immigration officials must be able to
adjust enforcement priorities and practices in light of changing circumstances.

All Americans should demand that their government meet its constitutional
responsibilities. But the remedy for failure or policy disagreements is not to
ignore the constitutional principles that bind us. Rather, it is to secure
accountability for government performance or changes through the ballot box.

The most important fact driving the Arizona action is a question: Why are an
estimated 11 million people in this country illegally? It is not because they
preferred to come illegally, with the inherent dangers of exploitation,
uncertainty and even physical danger for themselves and their families. The
simple answer is that our immigration laws provide inadequate legal avenues to
enter the United States for employment purposes at levels that our economy
demands. Congress has refused to deal with this reality for decades.

The mismatch is stark. Only 5,000 visas are available for low-skilled workers,
whereas until 2008, the unauthorized population grew annually by about 500,000
mostly low-skilled workers. Even in this recession, more jobs are filled at high
rates by immigrants, including unauthorized immigrants, than our outdated visa
allocations can accommodate. A Mexican national, for example, would wait 10
years or more to get a visa under today's system. It is not surprising that we
have so many unauthorized people among us because employers and workers obey
market, not government, rules.

Tightening border controls, while essential, has exacerbated the problem. Today,
our borders are more secure than ever -- so those here illegally stay because
re-entry is perilous. Other perverse consequences will continue until the
underlying causes of illegal immigration diminish. Calls for "enforcement first"
may have political appeal, but they are unworkable without a simultaneous
federal overhaul of our immigration laws that includes effective enforcement,
legal immigration reform  and legalization for unauthorized immigrants.

We sympathize with the public frustration reflected in Arizona's law. We hope it
pushes Congress to reclaim federal leadership in addressing the nation's
immigration challenges. However aggrieved Arizona may be, allowing states to set
immigration policies violates established constitutional principles and fails to
solve the overall problem. Any administration, Democratic or Republican, would
have to challenge Arizona's statute. In court Thursday, the Obama administration
is defending a core constitutional principle that makes it possible for
immigration to continue to serve important national interests.

Doris Meissner and James W. Ziglar are senior fellows at the Migration Policy
Institute. Meissner served as commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service from 1993 to 2000. Ziglar, who is a member of the Arizona
bar, served as INS commissioner from 2001 to 2002.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Local Digest

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 665 words

VIRGINIA

Official pushes bill on illegal immigrants

Corey Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors,
pushed legislation Thursday that would outline how Virginia can crack down on
illegal immigration yet avoid the pitfalls Arizona has faced with its
controversial immigration law.

Dubbed the Virginia Rule of Law Act, the legislation enhances police officials'
power to capture, detain and deport illegal  immigrants; curbs illegal day
laboring; and creates specific state penalties for illegal immigrants.

Like the Arizona law, Stewart's legislation states that law enforcement
officials are required to check the status of anyone who is detained if there is
"reasonable suspicion" that the person is here illegally. Stewart, however, said
his law will stand up in court because unlike Arizona, Virginia won't make it
illegal for people not to carry their immigration documents with them.

Prince William received national attention in 2007 for its crackdown on illegal
immigration. Although the county's original law did stand before a judge in
Alexandria, the county has since modified the law so that police officers  are
inquiring into the immigration status of all people who are arrested on
suspicion of violating a state or local law.

-- Jennifer Buske

THE REGION

Drug-trafficking boss gets life in prison

The head of a drug-trafficking network that supplied PCP, heroin and cocaine in
the District and Maryland was sentenced to life in prison and ordered to forfeit
$1.1 million in drug proceeds Thursday, ending the career of a man that U.S.
District Judge Thomas F. Hogan called "the leader of the largest PCP ring ever
in D.C."

Lonnell Glover, 48, of Temple Hills was convicted in Hogan's court in the
District in November 2008 of conspiring to distribute PCP after the FBI
concluded that he distributed about 50 gallons of the drug over five months in
2007.

Glover was previously sentenced in June to serve 20 years for his role in a
separate cocaine ring.

Hogan also sentenced Jerome Hampton, 52, to 10 years and one month in prison
Thursday for conspiring with Glover to distribute PCP from his business, Custom
Interiors, in Upper Marlboro. Hampton was convicted in October 2009.

The investigation led to raids in June 2007 that recovered more than $400,000 in
cash, firearms, gallons of PCP and kilograms of heroin, and 32 alleged
conspirators were arrested, according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Ronald C.
Machen Jr. and federal and local law enforcement leaders.

-- Spencer S. Hsu

Delta adds 21 flights at National Airport

Delta Air Lines will add 21 nonstop flights out of Reagan National Airport to
seven cities Oct. 31 as part of an East Coast expansion. The  destinations are
Orlando; Miami; Tampa; St. Louis; Hartford, Conn.; Columbus, Ohio; and
Jacksonville, Fla.

Five new flights to Boston and one new flight to Indianapolis will be added;
service to Huntsville, Ala., will be discontinued. Tickets for the new flights
will be available Saturday.

-- Derek Kravitz

MARYLAND

Crime in Pr. George's continues to drop

Crime in Prince George's County continued its steady decline in the first half
of 2010, falling in every major category for a decrease of 6.3 percent compared
with the same period last year, authorities announced Wednesday.

Violent crime fell by 11.7 percent, propelled by double-digit percentage-point
drops in robberies, rapes and homicides, authorities said. Property crime, which
includes burglaries, thefts and stolen vehicles, fell by a smaller margin -- 5.3
percent -- but authorities highlighted it as significant nonetheless.

Prince George's Police Chief Roberto L. Hylton attributed the drop to his
efforts to connect with the community, and he dismissed the notion that the
decline is unsustainable or of fluke. At the beginning of this year, police in
Prince George's boasted that crime had hit the lowest rate since at least 1975,
the last year for which comparable figures were available in the county.

-- Matt Zapotosky

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The right way to mend immigration

BYLINE: Charles E. Schumer and Lindsey O. Graham

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 856 words


Our immigration system is badly broken. Although our borders have become far
more secure in recent years, too many people seeking illegal entry get through.
We have no way to track whether the millions who enter the United States on
valid visas each year leave when they are supposed to. And employers are
burdened by a complicated system for verifying workers' immigration status.

Last week we  met with President Obama to discuss our draft framework for action
on immigration. We expressed our belief that America's security and economic
well-being depend on enacting sensible immigration policies.

The answer is simple: Americans overwhelmingly oppose illegal immigration and
support legal immigration. Throughout our history, immigrants have contributed
to making this country more vibrant and economically dynamic. Once it is clear
that in 20 years our nation will not again confront the specter of another 11
million people coming here illegally, Americans will embrace more welcoming
immigration policies.

Our plan has four pillars: requiring biometric Social Security cards to ensure
that illegal workers cannot get jobs; fulfilling and strengthening our
commitments on border security and interior enforcement; creating a process for
admitting temporary workers; and implementing a tough but fair path to
legalization for those already here.

Besides border security, ending illegal immigration will also require an
effective employment verification system that holds employers accountable for
hiring illegal workers. A tamper-proof ID system would dramatically decrease
illegal immigration, experts have said, and would reduce the government revenue
lost when employers and workers here illegally fail to pay taxes.

We would require all U.S. citizens and legal immigrants who want jobs to obtain
a high-tech, fraud-proof Social Security card. Each card's unique biometric
identifier would be stored only on the card; no government database would house
everyone's information. The cards would not contain any private information,
medical information or tracking devices. The card would be a high-tech version
of the Social Security card that citizens already have.

Prospective employers would be responsible for swiping the cards through a
machine to confirm a person's identity and immigration status. Employers who
refused to swipe the card or who otherwise knowingly hired unauthorized workers
would face stiff fines and, for repeat offenses, prison sentences.

We propose a zero-tolerance policy for gang members, smugglers, terrorists and
those who commit other felonies after coming here illegally. We would bolster
recent efforts to secure our borders by increasing the Border Patrol's staffing
and funding for infrastructure and technology. More personnel would be deployed
to the border immediately to fill gaps in apprehension capabilities.

Other steps include expanding domestic enforcement to better apprehend and
deport those who commit crimes and completing an entry-exit system that tracks
people who enter the United States on legal visas and reports those who overstay
their visas to law enforcement databases.

Ending illegal immigration, however, cannot be the sole objective of reform.
Developing a rational legal immigration system is essential to ensuring
America's future economic prosperity.

Ensuring economic prosperity requires attracting the world's best and brightest.
Our legislation would award green cards to immigrants who receive a PhD or
master's degree in science, technology, engineering or math from a U.S.
university. It makes no sense to educate the world's future inventors and
entrepreneurs and then force them to leave when they are able to contribute to
our economy.

Our blueprint also creates a rational system for admitting lower-skilled
workers. Our current system prohibits lower-skilled immigrants from coming here
to earn money and then returning home. Our framework would facilitate this
desired circular migration by allowing employers to hire immigrants if they can
show they were unsuccessful in recruiting an American to fill an open position;
allowing more lower-skilled immigrants to come here when our economy is creating
jobs and fewer in a recession; and permitting workers who have succeeded in the
workplace, and contributed to their communities over many years, the chance to
earn a green card.

For the 11 million immigrants already in this country illegally, we would
provide a tough but fair path forward. They would be required to admit they
broke the law and to pay their debt to society by performing community service
and paying fines and back taxes. These people would be required to pass
background checks and be proficient in English before going to the back of the
line of prospective immigrants to earn the opportunity to work toward lawful
permanent residence.

The American people deserve more than empty rhetoric and impractical calls for
mass deportation. We urge the public and our colleagues to join our bipartisan
efforts in enacting these reforms.

Charles E. Schumer is a Democratic senator from New York. Lindsey O. Graham is a
Republican senator from South Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

John Kibler

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. T20

LENGTH: 438 words

John Kibler

Age: 46

Residence: Halethorpe.

Education: None given.

Occupation: Business owner.

Elected offices/civic activities: None given.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Unresponsive elected officials more interested in steroids in baseball than a
lack of jobs and faltering economy. I'll keep my focus on jobs for Marylanders
by keeping politicians with no business experience out of real business owners'
business."

Why should voters elect you?

"It's all about jobs and America for working-class Americans. The current pile
of ticks don't understand that; we do and we can fix it."

Web site:

http://www.johnkibler.com

E-mail address:

johnkibler@me.com

Ryan Ludick

Ludick told The Washington Post he withdrew from the race. However, his name
appears on the ballot.

Michael Miller

Age: 43

Residence: Linthicum.

Education: None given.

Occupation: None given.

Elected offices/civic activities: None given.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Illegal workers and unemployment. Fact: Immigrants have enhanced America;
illegal immigrants have not. We need to make it harder for illegal immigrants to
find jobs in Maryland. For every illegal worker hired, a U.S. citizen is
displaced. This must stop. We must enforce immigration laws. I welcome anyone
who enters our country legally."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will fight for the American worker. If elected, I will work for the people of
Maryland and welcome their opinions and suggestions."

Web site:

http://www.michaelmillerforcongress.com

E-mail address:

michael@michaelmillerforcongress.com

John Rea

Did not respond.

John Sarbanes*

Age: 48

Residence: Towson.

Education: BA, Woodrow Wilson School of Public Service and International
Affairs, Princeton University; JD, Harvard Law School.

Occupation: Congressman, U.S. House of Representatives.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, U.S. House of Representatives,
2007-present; past board member, Institute for Christian and Jewish Studies;
past board member, Public Justice Center.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"In the past few months, I've met with more than 100 small-business owners
across my district. Many are still having difficulty accessing credit. It is
critical that we reverse that trend and ensure that local innovators and
entrepreneurs have access to capital so they can grow their businesses and
create jobs."

Why should voters elect you?

"I have placed an emphasis on constituent service, hard work and listening
carefully to the people I represent in the Congress to deliver real solutions."

Web site:

http://www.johnsarbanes.com

E-mail address:

john@johnsarbanes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Good night and good luck, guest workers

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 801 words


Blame Edward R. Murrow. The legendary broadcaster's last major report, "Harvest
of Shame" in 1960, set the template for today's muckraking filmmakers. It also
helped create today's illegal immigration quandary.

Murrow meant well. He catalogued shortchanged pay, scandalous living and working
conditions, and other horrors suffered by foreign migrant farm workers in
Florida. The documentary set off a public outcry and a congressional battle over
the moral rot behind the nation's fruits and vegetables. In 1964, led by Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy and an alliance of churches and unions, Congress shut down the
migrant worker program, called Bracero.

But in so doing, it also cut off millions of poor Mexicans who, by flowing back
and forth across the border, were lifting themselves and their country out of
poverty. They and their U.S. employers, many of them decent bosses in genuine
need of workers, reverted to illegality.

I am reminded of Murrow as I work on a documentary on guest workers with Anne
Morriss of Harvard University's Center for International Development. Some small
programs for unskilled agricultural and other workers have been reinstituted,
but they are not nearly large enough to meet business demand and provide an
alternative to halt the illegal traffic.

Yet the same shortsighted moral opposition persists, complicated now by a
populist backlash that opposes immigration in general. The two camps are
opposites ideologically but united in their distrust of government's ability to
either protect migrant workers or control their numbers.

Some alleged abuses that made headlines would seem to vindicate the moralists.
One of the most egregious involves 500 metalworkers brought from India in 2006
to work on damaged oil rigs off the Mississippi coast after Hurricane Katrina.
Hundreds have sworn in a lawsuit against the owner of the rigs, Signal
International, that they were promised permanent residency by middlemen who
acted as Signal's recruiters. Many said they sold their homes or went into debt
to pay as much as $20,000 to the recruiters for such a prized opportunity.

What they got instead was an isolated workplace that the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission has said appears to have been "laced with ridicule and
harassment." The New York Times reported in February that when workers
protested, authorities in Immigration and Customs Enforcement advised Signal to
strike with surprise and deport the ringleaders. The company tried, but it was
physically blocked by immigration activists in a tense standoff.

The departments of Justice and Homeland Security are now investigating Signal.
The company, for its part, professes innocence and is suing the American and
Indian recruiters.

To some moralists and union militants, the case is just more confirmation that
being a temporary worker is a form of indentured servitude. This is because of
the workers' limited rights, dependence on the employer and vulnerability to
being sent home.

I disagree. The problem is not the work; it's the potential for abuse. Abuses
can be rectified, and largely have been in small programs today and in other
countries.

The comprehensive immigration reform packages taking shape in the House and
Senate, and prodded by President Obama, further reduce the likelihood of
mistreatment. They give migrant workers the right to switch employers and, in
some cases, earn their way to citizenship.

The cold reality for the country, meanwhile, is that without a large guest
program for unskilled labor, unauthorized immigration will rebound to fill a
need for workers and services as the economy recovers. Ever more costly
enforcement is helping to greatly reduce the unauthorized traffic, but only
police states can totally shut it down. I don't think we want to go there.

Still, the moralists and populists combined in 2007 to help defeat President
George W. Bush's comprehensive immigration reform bill that included a modest
temporary worker program. They are geared now to go after the Obama package.

There is some reason for hope that the emerging proposals may be enacted. The
AFL-CIO leadership, in a historic switch, has overridden some of its more
strident members to join the pro-immigrant Change to Win alliance of mostly
service workers to support a temporary worker program. It is unclear, however,
whether the labor leaders and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, long a guest-worker
advocate, are statesmen enough to overcome mutual suspicions in setting actual
numbers.

Meanwhile, the most basic moral concern for the immigrant workers and their home
countries -- escaping penury -- wilts on the vine. As Morriss puts it, poverty
is its own crime against humanity.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 9, 2010 Monday 5:00 PM EST

Va. official: Feds to turn over data on immigrants

BYLINE: Anita Kumar

LENGTH: 324 words



HIGHLIGHT: Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors, said Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have agreed to
turn over some of the information that he asked for after a nun was killed last
week in a car accident in which an illegal immigrant is suspected of driving the
other car.


Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors,
said Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have agreed to turn over some
of the information that he asked for after a nun was killed last week in a car
accident in which an illegal immigrant is suspected of driving the other car.

Stewart said ICE officials agreed to turn over the identities and final
disposition of every illegal immigrant already convicted of a crime who was
apprehended in Prince William County through the 287g partnership.

Stewart said that "this data is the tip of the iceberg" and will show that
millions of convicted criminal illegal immigrants in this country have been
released while awaiting deportation.

"This is not a small number we are discussing. Americans will be shocked when
they realize how many convicted criminal illegal aliens are being released back
into our communities and how long their deportation proceedings take," he said.
"This is a positive step forward, but we have to keep fighting."

Last week, Stewart asked Congress to subpoena ICE records that show how many
illegal immigrants are being released from ICE custody back into the county and
what crimes they are accused of committing.

According to Stewart, ICE officials also said they will increase detention
center space in Virginia to hold illegal immigrants until deportation.

"ICE told Prince William County Supervisor Corey Stewart the agency would
provide available statistics, for instance about the crimes and custody status
of individuals referred to ICE by 287(g) trained officers,'' ICE spokesman
Richard Rocha said. "We anticipate that research to take a few weeks. To
clarify, ICE will not be providing personally identifiable information -- like
names or addresses -- to Stewart or others. Under DHS's Privacy Policy, the
Privacy Act, which protects against the release of certain personal information,
extends to aliens as well as U.S. citizens."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 20, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Cold facts and hot words on immigration

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 768 words


You would think that with unemployment running at 10 percent, economics would
play a role in deciding how many immigrants to let into the country and what to
do with the unauthorized ones here.

Think again.

What we have instead is the  slugfest of name-calling, cynicism and hypocrisy
that passes for policymaking in Washington these days.

The latest fury surrounds a comprehensive immigration reform bill submitted  to
Congress last week by Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.). The measure, which among
other things calls for legalizing unauthorized immigrants, has the support of
the Hispanic, black, Asian and progressive caucuses and is the first shot in
what President Obama promises will be a push in the coming months to fix the
nation's broken immigration system. Republicans, however, are already calling
the bill dead on arrival.

The Census Bureau, meanwhile, has just reported that one in six workers in the
country is foreign-born. That is the highest this figure has been since 1920 and
is the result of both legal and illegal immigration since 1965, when restrictive
quotas were dropped and a temporary worker program ended. The nearly 12 million
unauthorized immigrants show little sign of leaving, and more than 100,000
immigrant workers continue to come into the country each month -- legally. They
arrive with permanent residency or temporary work visas, at levels determined
years ago and with no regard for the nation's economic conditions.

So, how much in fact do these immigrants contribute to unemployment, wages, the
economy and taxes?

I run an immigration studies project at Harvard University, so let me see if I
can't cut to the chase. There are no absolute, hard measures of immigration's
economic impact (a dirty secret), but after hundreds of estimations using
different methodologies, a consensus has grown among economists across the
political spectrum that allows us safely to draw a few conclusions.

Immigration generally has only a limited impact on unemployment, and no impact
on it over time. That's right: no impact. Today's immigration into the United
States, however, does undercut wages for low-skilled workers and also some
high-skilled ones. The impact of immigrants on total taxes paid by Americans is
probably slightly negative. Regardless, it is offset by an equally slight
positive impact on economic growth, creating essentially a wash.

This doesn't count considerable long-term benefits, especially by
entrepreneurial immigrants with advanced degrees, but also by high school
dropouts who later move into the middle class. Some of the children of poor
immigrants fail to move up and remain a fiscal burden. They are, however, a
distinct minority.

There are differences over the precise numbers behind some of these statements,
but for all the chest-beating economists like to do (it's an alpha-dog
profession), their differences are minor and almost irrelevant.

What matters are the trade-offs that policymakers must manage between the costs
and gains  to achieve the indisputable long-term benefits. The operative word
here is "manage," which is different from taking the blustery positions all
sides in the debate are guilty of.

Third-quarter census data mined by the Center for Immigration Studies show that
unemployment among native-born Americans without a high school diploma was an
astounding 30 percent, and underemployment much higher. Because so many factors
are at play, including race and ethnicity, no one knows exactly how many of
those are jobless because of competition from the large number of legal and
illegal immigrants also lacking a high school education. Clearly, however, some
are. It is irresponsible of pro-immigrant activists to call anyone who focuses
on the concern a "nativist."

By the same token, many of the anti-immigrant activists, especially in Congress,
are the same people who voted against the extension of unemployment benefits and
are generally opposed to social welfare safety nets, suggesting more than some
hypocrisy in their sudden defense of the underclass.

They also deny the free-market principles they claim to uphold on other issues.
International labor flows work like trade: Over time, they increase productivity
and wealth for everyone. The issue is managing the transition of "over time."
But the American economy proves again and again to be remarkably able to quickly
absorb immigrants and reach a new, richer equilibrium.

We need policymakers to stop their infighting and work on those balances.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 789 words

IMMIGRATION

U.S. illegal immigrant population falls again

The number of illegal immigrants living in the United States fell by 1 million,
or 8 percent, between 2007 and 2009, the U.S. government reported Tuesday.

The decline, to 10.8 million people in January 2009 from 11.8 million in 2007
and 11.6 million in 2008, coincides with the national economic downturn. It
marked the first back-to-back drops in the number of illegal immigrants since
the federal government allowed many to obtain legal status after a 1986 amnesty.

The report by the Department of Homeland Security's Office of Immigration
Statistics feeds a technical but politically sensitive debate over whether a
weaker U.S. economy or tougher immigration enforcement is more responsible for
the change.

Advocates for reduced immigration said the findings show the country can shrink
the population of illegal immigrants without simply legalizing them. Immigration
advocates say enforcement alone is neither practical, affordable nor humane over
the long run.

Independent analysts said that, while it appears that declines in the past two
years are real and not due solely to changes in methodology in underlying U.S.
Census data, the impact of enforcement will only be seen when the U.S. labor
market recovers.

-- Spencer S. Hsu

MEDICINE

Friend links Murtha's infection to error

Rep. John P. Murtha's large intestine was damaged when he underwent surgery to
remove his gallbladder, triggering an infection that sent him to another
hospital, a Pennsylvania congressman said Monday.

The comment from Rep. Robert A. Brady (D), a longtime friend of Murtha's, came
hours after Murtha died at Virginia Hospital Center in Arlington. The hospital
said he died from "major complications from surgery."

Murtha, 77, was first hospitalized with gallbladder problems in mid-December at
the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, and eventually had his
gallbladder removed there.

Gallbladder surgery is usually a very safe operation, but complications can
include nicking the intestine, liver or bile duct as doctors struggle to squeeze
an inflamed gallbladder through a tiny opening in the abdomen. If an intestine
or bile duct is perforated, spotting it quickly can mean the difference between
survival or death from massive infection.

-- Associated Press

ENVIRONMENT

BASIC countries weakening accord

 A senior U.S. official criticized China and other leading developing countries
Tuesday for trying to weaken an accord to fight global warming, and he raised
the prospect that a fuller international pact may be not be struck by year's
end.

A United Nations-sponsored climate change meeting in Copenhagen in December fell
short of its intended goal of producing a binding treaty but did take some
nonbinding steps toward further controlling greenhouse gas emissions blamed for
global warming.

"The statements that we have seen from China and the other BASIC countries do
evince a desire to limit the impact of the accord," said Todd Stern, President
Obama's senior climate negotiator. BASIC countries are Brazil, South Africa,
India and China.

Stern complained that BASIC countries were vague in how they would carry out
pollution reduction under the Copenhagen deal and warned that countries should
not "cherry-pick" parts of the accord that they like, while ignoring other
provisions.

"This is not after all a casual agreement," he said.

-- Reuters

LABOR

NLRB nomination fails in Senate

The nomination of Craig Becker, whom President Obama chose to serve on the
National Labor Relations Board, died Tuesday after it failed a cloture vote in
the Senate.

Senators voted 52 to 33 to end debate on Becker's nomination, but that was still
short of the 60 needed to move to a vote. All of the chamber's Republicans in
attendance and Democrats Ben Nelson (Neb.) and Blanche Lincoln (Ark.) voted
against cloture.

Becker, a Chicago-based associate general counsel for the AFL-CIO and the
Service Employees International Union, was nominated by Obama last spring. But
Republicans were concerned about the prospect of a top labor lawyer helping to
mediate disputes between companies and employees.

-- Ed O'Keefe

Man who took over Clinton office a fugitive: The New Hampshire man who took
hostages at a Hillary Rodham Clinton presidential campaign office in 2007 cut
off his electronic monitoring bracelet Tuesday, then fled, authorities said.
Strafford County Attorney Thomas Velardi cautioned the public not to approach or
attempt to apprehend Leeland Eisenberg if he is spotted. Eisenberg spent about
two years behind bars for the November 2007 siege at Clinton's Rochester, N.H.,
campaign office, in which he claimed to have a bomb. He was released on
probation last November.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: February 16, 2010



CORRECTION: A Feb. 13 Free for All letter incorrectly identified the late Rep.
John P. Murtha (D-Pa.) as a Republican.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona bares its teeth;
Targeting undocumented immigrants, the state goes too far.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 423 words


IN ARIZONA, where the official malice directed at  immigrants who came to the
United States illegally is unsurpassed, Republican lawmakers are pushing a bill
that would criminalize every such immigrant just for being in the state. It's
the latest attempt to harass, intimidate and hound the state's several hundred
thousand undocumented residents.

Until now, only police departments that have entered into deals with the federal
government have been empowered to arrest people on suspicion that they lack
proper documentation. The bill, which is expected to clear the legislature in
the near future, would broaden that authority and allow such arrests statewide
by expanding the definition of trespassing to include the immigrants' mere
presence in the state. (In Arizona, misdemeanor trespassing is punishable by up
to six months in jail.) It would circumvent the Obama administration's policy of
focusing enforcement efforts on undocumented  immigrants who have committed
serious crimes and who pose a danger to the community.

No other state has gone so far to usurp the federal government's authority over
immigration enforcement, or to defy the Fraternal Order of Police, which opposes
the legislation because it would subvert police efforts to gain the trust and
cooperation of immigrant communities.

Inevitably, the bill would mean more arrests based exclusively on factors such
as skin color, accent and clothing. That doesn't seem to bother the bill's
backers; nor does it bother them that the state's large population of legal U.S.
citizens of Hispanic origin is likely to suffer from increased racial profiling
if the legislation is enacted. Perhaps the Republican brand is already so
tarnished among Hispanic Americans that more immigrant-bashing by the party will
only confirm the party's image as one of hostility  to the nation's largest and
fastest-growing minority group.

The Obama administration continues to insist it is serious about overhauling the
nation's immigration laws, which among other benefits would furnish a pathway to
citizenship for an estimated 12 million  immigrants who came here illegally. But
given the president's political travails and the competition of other
legislative priorities, it's hard to see an immigration bill advancing in
Congress anytime soon. Tragically, the result of that policy vacuum is likely to
be ever more menacing measures targeting Hispanics, driving undocumented
immigrants further into the shadows and making life miserable for U.S. citizens
for the sin of their ethnic origin.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration officials set quotas to boost deportation numbers;
Focus broadens beyond dangerous criminals; memo draws criticism

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Andrew Becker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 972 words


Seeking to reverse a steep drop in deportations, U.S. immigration authorities
have set controversial new quotas for agents. At the same time, officials have
stepped back from an Obama administration commitment to focus enforcement
efforts primarily on illegal immigrants who are dangerous or have violent
criminal backgrounds.

The moves, outlined in internal documents and a recent e-mail by a senior U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement official to field directors nationwide,
differ from pledges by ICE chief John T. Morton and his boss, Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, to focus enforcement on the most dangerous illegal
immigrants. That approach represented a break from the mass factory raids and
neighborhood sweeps the Bush administration used to drive up arrests.

In a Feb. 22 memo, James M. Chaparro, head of ICE detention and removal
operations, wrote that, despite record deportations of criminals, the overall
number of removals was down. While ICE was on pace to achieve "the Agency goal
of 150,000 criminal alien removals" for the year ending Sept. 30, total
deportations were set to barely top 310,000, "well under the Agency's goal of
400,000," and nearly 20 percent behind last year's total of 387,000, he wrote.

Beyond stating ICE enforcement goals in unusually explicit terms, Chaparro laid
out how the agency would pump up the numbers: by increasing detention space to
hold more illegal immigrants while they await deportation proceedings; by
sweeping prisons and jails to find more candidates for deportation and offering
early release to those willing to go quickly; and, most controversially, with a
"surge" in efforts to catch illegal immigrants whose only violation was lying on
immigration or visa applications or reentering the United States after being
deported.

"These efforts must be sustained and will be closely monitored," Chaparro told
field directors in the e-mail, which was obtained by the Center for
Investigative Reporting and The Washington Post.

ICE spokesman Brian P. Hale distanced the agency from Chaparro's remarks,
saying, "Portions of the memo were inconsistent with ICE, inconsistent with the
administration's point of view and inconsistent with the secretary." He added
that the agency has moved to "clarify" the situation.

Chaparro issued a new memo Friday stating that his earlier e-mail "signals no
shift in the important steps we have taken to date to focus our priorities on
the smart and effective enforcement of immigration laws, prioritizing dangerous
criminal aliens . . . while also adhering to Congressional mandates to maintain
an average daily [detention] population and meet annual performance measures."

In the new memo, Chaparro did not alter or rescind any of the strategies he had
laid out.

An immigration official said deportations are falling mainly because the focus
on criminals has added a complication: It takes an average of 45 days to deport
criminals, compared with 11 days for non-criminals, creating a shortage of
detention beds. The number of beds was also limited because costs were higher
than Congress expected, the official said.

Deportations of convicted criminals climbed 19 percent in 2009 and are on pace
to climb 40 percent this year, while deportations of non-criminal illegal
immigrants fell 3 percent and are on pace to drop 33 percent this year, agency
officials said.

Advocates on the right and left pounced on the memo and other ICE documents,
saying they showed that the agency is being neither tough nor consistent in
targeting the worst offenders.

"We cannot allow a preoccupation with criminal aliens to obscure other critical
ICE missions," Rep. Harold Rogers (Ky.), the ranking Republican on the House
Appropriations subcommittee for homeland security, said in a statement released
by his office. "At best, it appears as though immigration enforcement is being
shelved and the Administration is attempting to enact some sort of selective
amnesty under the cover of 'prioritization.' "

Joan Friedland, immigration policy director at the National Immigration Law
Center, countered that quotas will encourage agents to target easy cases, not
the ones who pose the greatest safety risk.

"For ICE leadership, it's not about keeping the community safe. It's all about
chasing this 400,000 number," said Chris Crane, spokesman for the American
Federation of Government Employees Council 118, which represents ICE workers.

Since November, ICE field offices in Northern California, Dallas and Chicago
have issued new evaluation standards and work plans for enforcement agents who
remove illegal immigrants from jails and prisons. In some cases, for example,
the field offices are requiring that agents process an average of 40 to 60 cases
a month to earn "excellent" ratings.

Such standards present a problem, said one San Francisco area agent who spoke on
the condition of anonymity to avoid reprisal. Instead of taking a day to prepare
a case against a legal resident with multiple convictions for serious crimes,
agents may choose to process a drunk driver or nonviolent offender who agrees to
leave the country voluntarily, because it will take only hours.

The steps appear at odds with a statement made by Morton in August, when he told
reporters ICE had ended quotas in a program to capture illegal immigrants
violating court deportation orders.

"I just don't think that a law enforcement program should be based on a hard
number that must be met," Morton said. "So we don't have quotas anymore."

Under the Bush administration, ICE officials in 2006 increased an annual quota
from 125 to 1,000 arrests for each fugitive operations team. At the same time,
the agency dropped its policy that agents focus on criminals and deportation
violators.

Becker is a staff reporter for the nonprofit Center for Investigative Reporting
in Berkeley, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sarah L. Voisin/the Washington Post; A Salvadoran is led away in
a 2007 raid. The administration had signaled a move away from mass arrests.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Stop second-guessing the Framers

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 147 words


George F. Will writes in his March 28 column ["A citizenship birthright? Maybe
not."] that the 14th Amendment should not apply to the children of illegal
immigrants born in the United States because "in 1868 there were and never had
been any illegal immigrants because no law had ever restricted immigration." By
that reasoning, the  Second Amendment should not apply to semiautomatic weapons
because in 1789 there were and never had been any semiautomatic weapons and the
First Amendment should not apply to communication on the Internet, television or
radio because in 1789 there were and never had been any forms of electronic
communication.

Rather than second-guessing the intent (or, in this case, the words) of the
Constitution and its amendments, Mr. Will should concentrate his efforts on
upholding the Constitution when it is neither convenient nor easy.

Hilary Stathes, Laurel

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Under God ELIZABETH TENETY, EDITOR;
Blogging on religion, government and politics

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 192 words

A nun's death and illegal immigration

   On Sunday, Sister Denise Mosier, 66, a Benedictine nun and former missionary
in Africa was killed and two others gravely injured when, on their way to a
retreat, their car was hit by an alleged drunk driver.

The 23-year-old driver, Carlos Martinelly Montano, is reported to be in the
United States illegally from Bolivia, has two drunken-driving convictions and
has been awaiting long-delayed deportation hearings.

With immigration debates flaring up in  Arizona and Virginia, it didn't take
long for immigration-reform advocates to politicize Sister Denise's death. But
the Benedictines are emphasizing mercy over politics.

As The Post reported, Sister Glenna Smith, a spokeswoman for the Benedictine
Sisters, said Tuesday that "we are dismayed" by reports that the crash is
focusing attention on the man's status as an alleged illegal immigrant. "He's a
child of God and deserves to be treated with dignity," she said.

-- Elizabeth Tenety

Staff writers Michelle Boorstein and William Wan and "On Faith" editor Elizabeth
Tenety blog regularly on religion, politics and policy at
http://washingtonpost.com/onfaith.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Push to revise 14th Amendment not gaining steam;
Opponents of birthright citizenship not on board for uphill political fight

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 885 words


South Carolina Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R) says America faces a new and growing
foreign threat: illegal immigrants and tourists who come to here for the express
purpose of giving birth so their children obtain citizenship.

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and other top Republicans quickly jumped on the issue
and called for hearings.

The senators said their concerns arose from recent reports of a burgeoning
"birth tourism" industry, which helps expectant mothers abroad travel to the
United States to deliver their babies. They also said that birthright
citizenship, which is granted by the 14th Amendment of the Constitution, could
provide an incentive for people to enter the country illegally.

The sudden support cheered anti-immigration hard-liners who have been pushing to
do away with birthright citizenship for years, but the senators face a problem:
Few others want to take up the issue, and it is almost assuredly going nowhere.

Even some of the most vocal critics of the country's permissive immigration laws
are skeptical of the efforts, which they say are particularly emotionally
charged because they affect children and families.

"We don't think that it is worth the political capital to initiate a debate on
this issue," said Jon Feere, legal policy analyst for the Center for Immigration
Studies, a think tank that backs stricter immigration policies. "The energy
spent on ending birthright citizenship might be better spent reducing illegal
immigration through a commitment to immigration law enforcement generally. If
illegal immigration is ended, the problem of birthright citizenship for children
of illegal aliens disappears."

Nevertheless, raising the issue could prove beneficial to Graham and McCain,
both of whom have rocky relationships with many of the conservatives whose
support they'll need to stay in office.

Graham has fallen out of favor with many in his party for working with Democrats
on a host of issues, including immigration. He was just one of five Republicans
to vote last week to confirm Elena Kagan for the Supreme Court, a decision that
further raises the possibility that he will face a serious primary challenge
when his term runs out in four years.

McCain's concern is more immediate -- he faces voters in a primary later this
month and is on the ballot again in November.

"My organization would say there should be a change on the horizon, but not in
the way Lindsey Graham is talking about it," said Rosemary Jenks, director of
governmental relations for the nonprofit NumbersUSA, the leading group opposed
to birthright citizenship. "I do think it is political. . . . What we need is a
serious discussion of the actual issues, not a lot of political ploys. "

Bills related to birthright citizenship have been introduced in Congress every
year since the 1990s, experts say. They almost never gain traction and rarely
attract high-profile supporters such as Graham and McCain. When the issued was
raised this year, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) as well as
Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) said they, too, would be open
to hearings.

On Fox News late last month, Graham said he might propose a constitutional
amendment because birthright citizenship has become a magnet for illegal
immigration. "To have a child in America, they cross the border, go to the
emergency room, have a child and that child is automatically an American
citizen," he told host Greta Van Susteren. "That shouldn't be the case. That
attracts people here for all the wrong reasons."

Amending the Constitution is a difficult task. Some who support curbing
birthright citizenship argue that the 14th Amendment has been misinterpreted and
that the issue could be dealt with more simply by passing a law or through the
courts.

Groups that study immigration trends say the number of "birth tourists" to the
United States is relatively small, perhaps a few thousand a year. The number of
U.S. citizens born to illegal-immigrant parents is believed to be much higher;
there were about 4 million such children living in the United States in 2008,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

"This is a symptom of the larger problem of illegal immigration in this
country," Jenks said. "It is an important issue. This is part of our identity as
a nation, and we're the only industrialized country that has not changed its
birthright citizenship laws."

More troubling to some is that illegal immigrants often further root themselves
in U.S. society by having American children, their plight often winning the
sympathy of the public. In one widely publicized case in 2007, a Mexican woman
barricaded herself and her 8-year-old son, who was a U.S. citizen, inside a
Chicago church in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid deportation.

Immigrant rights advocates say birthright citizenship is beneficial to society
because it promotes assimilation, and that revoking that right could create
generations of residents who reside in the country illegally.

"It's puzzling that they would propose this, because it would add to the
undocumented population," said Bill O. Hing, a professor at the University of
San Francisco School of Law who has represented undocumented immigrants. "I
really think they lose sight of who these children are and what they become. . .
. They very quickly become assimilated."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Alex Wong/getty Images; Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) said he
is concerned that birthright citizenship has become a magnet for illegal
immigration.
IMAGE; Ross D. Franklin/associated Press; Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who faces
a reelection battle this year, has called for hearings on the "birth tourism"
issue.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Displays of grace and disgrace after Sister Denise's tragic end

BYLINE: Robert McCartney

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 927 words


We all knew the haters would froth when it turned out that the alleged drunk
driver involved in a Prince William County crash that killed a nun was an
illegal immigrant.

The marvel was the response of the victim's fellow sisters at the Benedictine
convent in Bristow, near Manassas. It took them only a day to express
forgiveness, and they did so directly to the driver's parents. They also
pointedly urged the rest of the world not to exploit the tragedy for political
purposes.

I'm in awe of the nuns' attitude of grace, but I'm not pious enough to follow
their advice. The death of Sister Denise Mosier on Aug. 1 illustrates key issues
in the immigration controversy so clearly that I feel compelled to write about
it.

All sides in the immigration debate tried to use the dramatic details of the
nun's death to push their own agendas. There are basically three contesting
camps: Let's call them the demagogues, the whitewashers and the frustrated
reformers.

The demagogues cited the incident partly to press for a new law in Virginia,
similar to the controversial one in Arizona, to expand the police's power to
identify illegal immigrants to be deported. Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large),
chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors, proposed such a bill
in June.

The whitewashers said the case isn't about illegal immigration at all, but about
the need to combat drunken driving.

The frustrated reformers -- including me -- say the case certainly does
implicate illegal immigration, but not necessarily the way demagogues say. The
problem isn't that the police lack powers but that the immigration courts are so
overwhelmed and poorly managed that they can't handle the deportation cases they
already have.

The Bolivian immigrant charged with killing Mosier and severely injuring two
other nuns should have been deported at least a year ago, if not earlier. He was
convicted of drunken driving in 2007 and again in 2008.

But the immigration case was postponed three times. The reasons are now under
investigation, but the delays are no surprise. For years, federal policy has
focused too much on staging politically attractive raids and arrests and too
little on the humdrum work of handling the resulting cases.  As a result, the
average wait in a deportation case is more than a year, and it regularly runs
much longer.

"All of the resources have been put into rounding people up, and very few
resources have been going into the hearing process," said Crystal Williams,
executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "You've got
this whole backlog, and no one has thought further than what looks good in the
press releases."

Judges in the Justice Department's immigration division hear, on average, more
than 1,000 cases a year, or about 20 mini-trials a week. The saying is that it's
like a criminal court with a traffic court workload. Yet the number of judges
continues to hover around 230, as it has for years. There's a severe shortage of
clerks, too.

The other problem is a failure to set realistic priorities about which cases to
handle first. At present, deportation cases are divided roughly evenly between
those involving criminals and noncriminals. But why bother with noncriminals
until we've dealt with all the criminals? It'd make more sense to speed up
handling of, say, an accused drunk driver, even if it meant letting some folks
continue to bus tables at a restaurant when they've overstayed their visas.

The Justice and Homeland Security departments have stepped up hiring and moved
to set clearer priorities, but there's a long way to go.

The division between the demagogues and the whitewashers exists at the national
level, too, and blocks comprehensive immigration reform.

The demagogues constantly stir hostility against anyone in the country
illegally. They suffer from hypocrisy. They adamantly oppose creating a path for
amnesty for the 12 million or so illegal immigrants now in the country, but they
simultaneously avoid talking about the logical consequence of such a policy,
which is that 12 million people would have to be deported.

"The killer fact in this debate that they are not willing to admit -- because
they know it's highly unrealistic and exorbitantly costly -- is that the only
alternative [to legalization] is mass deportation," said Marshall Fitz, director
of immigration policy at the Center for American Progress. A study by the group
estimates that deporting all of the nation's illegal immigrants would cost $300
billion.

Meanwhile, the whitewashers basically aren't bothered much that people are here
illegally. Some take a moral position that we're all God's children, so what
does it matter whether they have the right papers? Others have economic reasons
for welcoming illegal immigrants who are willing to work low-paying jobs and
easy to push around.

As a result, the whitewashers aren't willing to support truly effective
enforcement measures, especially against employers who hire illegal immigrants.

The division frustrates reformers who want a trade-off in which amnesty is
gradually extended to people here illegally in exchange for real enforcement of
the laws.

"Enforcement people don't believe in legalization. People who believe in
legalization don't believe in enforcement of any kind. This is why the grand
bargain has always fallen apart," said Stewart Lawrence, former consultant for
the American Immigration Law Foundation.

Dramatic cases like Mosier's only increase the importance of pushing for such a
compromise. In the meantime, let's hire a few more immigration judges.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Xiaomei Chen/the Washington Post; Maria Martinelly, right, the
mother of suspect Carlos Martinelly-Montano, held in the nun's death, said she
tried to keep him from drinking. With her are his sister Mayra and brother Josh.

IMAGE; Gerald Martineau For The Washington Post; Benedictine sister Christine
Vladimiroff talked about forgiveness during the Bristow retreat the nuns in the
car crash were headed to.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Illegal immigration stirs Va. GOP again;
Ariz. law prods leaders despite risk of offending Hispanic voters

BYLINE: Anita Kumar

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1255 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


Virginia Republicans who had backed away from the hot-button topic of illegal
immigration the past couple of years, concerned that the hard-line approach
could backfire at the ballot box, are embracing the issue once again.

Republicans were emboldened after Arizona legislators passed a tough new law,
even more so when the Obama administration, in a rare move, sued to prevent the
most controversial sections from taking effect.

"The open-border crowd doesn't just exist in Arizona," said Del. C. Todd Gilbert
(R-Shenandoah), who is outspoken in the legislature against illegal immigration.
"We are definitely fighting the same fight they are."

Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors, kicked off a campaign to bring an Arizona-like law to localities
across the state. Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II garnered national headlines
last week when he issued an opinion that allows police to question the
immigration status of anyone stopped for any reason.

And Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R), who rarely mentioned illegal immigration
during his campaign last year and instead made an unprecedented push to court
votes in immigrant communities, is asking the federal government to train and
deputize state troopers so they can make legal-status checks and refer
individuals for deportation.

Virginia, already known for some of the nation's toughest policies on illegal
immigration, has attracted the attention of the same national groups that helped
Arizona craft its law. It appears on their list of top 10 targeted states.

But it remains a tough issue for some Republicans, including McDonnell, who has
tried to take a moderate, pragmatic approach during his short time in office.
Some conservatives warn that lawmakers need to protect against coming across as
insensitive to Hispanics -- a problem that has contributed to losses in state
and national elections.

Michael Thompson, executive director of the Thomas Jefferson Institute for
Public Policy, a conservative think tank based in Fairfax County, said some
Republicans have a "mean streak" when talking about immigration.

"It's a knee-jerk reaction. They need to be careful," he said. "The Republican
Party is just nuts if they do this the wrong way. Hispanics are the
second-largest minority group in the country today."

Back on the front burner

Virginia's recent  shift into the center of the national immigration debate was
more a reentry: Long before Arizona passed its new law, Herndon voted to close a
day-laborer center frequented by illegal immigrants, Prince William and Loudoun
counties had curtailed services to illegal immigrants and directed police to
check the immigration status of anyone arrested, and state lawmakers had
considered hundreds of immigration proposals.

"In some ways, this is coming back to Virginia from Arizona," said Tim Freilich,
legal director for the Legal Aid Justice Center in Virginia. "We see in the
Arizona statute many lessons I think the [national groups] learned in Prince
William County."

But after putting the issue at the center of their party platform for several
years, Republican interest in immigration waned because of the growing economic
crisis, a clearer understanding of the state's limitations on a largely federal
issue and backlash at the voting booth.

Republicans say that immigration has always been important but that the issue
was put on the back burner the past few years because the souring economy took
precedent.

"People were concerned about jobs, the economy, taxes," McDonnell said. "I
talked about what people were most concerned about at the time."

Cuccinelli said that "grass-roots activists" have always pressed him on
immigration but that voters told him last year it was not the top issue. He said
that even now, it  has not regained the importance it had in 2007, when the
economy was in better shape and more illegal immigrants were finding work in the
state, particularly in Northern Virginia.

But Stewart, one of the state's most outspoken elected officials on illegal
immigration, accused his party's leaders -- including McDonnell and Cuccinelli
-- of being "afraid" of the issue, even though last year he, too, declared the
issue over.

"Republicans play it too soft. They are afraid of being labeled intolerant," he
said. "It does take political courage. It's a politically risky issue."

About 275,000 to 325,000 of the 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be in
the United States live in Virginia, according to the Pew Hispanic Center in
Washington. The U.S. Census Bureau says an additional 435,000 people in Virginia
are not U.S. citizens and are in the state legally.

Sen. Mary Margaret Whipple (D-Arlington), a leader in the Democratic-led body,
said Republicans have tried to take laws too far by targeting individuals based
on their appearance, not their behavior.

"Politically, it makes no sense to write off a segment of the U.S. population,"
Whipple said. "In the long run, it's a losing issue for the Republicans."

'It's an ideal issue'

Del. Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince William) said he asked for Cuccinelli's legal
opinion in May, after the Arizona law passed, because he thought that some of
the same people who were interested in combating illegal immigration a few years
ago would approach him again for a solution. He did not think he would be able
to get his proposals through the Senate, he said, and he wanted to have a better
understanding of what he could pursue before legislators return in January.

Since then, other proponents of tougher immigration enforcement have seized on a
recent car accident involving an illegal immigrant. The man was charged with
involuntary manslaughter and  drunken-driving-related counts after one nun was
killed and two others were injured when their car was hit head-on in Bristow.
Several lawmakers say they received calls and e-mails after the accident asking
for action.

"I think the Republicans, they've seen the polling, and they've seen the public
interest. They're looking for a way to align themselves with that energy," said
Michael M. Hethmon, legal counsel for the national group Immigration Reform Law
Institute, which helped craft the Arizona law and provided technical assistance
to Stewart.

Stephen J. Farnsworth, a political analyst at George Mason University, said it
was inevitable for Republicans to return to immigration because they are mostly
united on the issue, while Democrats are divided.

"Immigration is too good an issue for Republicans not to come back to over and
over again," he said. "It behooves any Republican to take this up. It's an ideal
issue."

But some legislators say that Virginia, which was quick to act after it was
discovered that several of the Sept. 11 hijackers had state identification
cards, has done all it can.

It passed legislation requiring applicants to provide proof of citizenship or
legal presence in the United States, along with proof of Virginia residency. It
banned illegal immigrants from getting non-emergency taxpayer benefits, such as
welfare. It requires that jails check the immigration status of everyone who has
been arrested and taken into custody.

Sen. John C. Watkins (R-Chesterfield), who led a state immigration panel under
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) and is now co-chairman of an immigration task force
for the National Conference of State Legislatures, said it's time for Congress
to step in.

"The federal government needs to do their job," he said.

Staff writer Rosalind S. Helderman and researcher Meg Smith contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Del. C. Todd Gilbert: "Fighting the same fight"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Va. GOP revives immigration issue;
Arizona law renews fire Leaders risk offending Hispanic voters

BYLINE: Anita Kumar

SECTION: METRO

LENGTH: 1254 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


Virginia Republicans who had backed away from the hot-button topic of
immigration the past couple of years, concerned that the hard-line approach
could backfire at the ballot box, are embracing the issue once again.

Republicans were emboldened after Arizona legislators passed a tough new law,
even more so when the Obama administration, in a rare move, sued to prevent the
most controversial sections from taking effect.

"The open-border crowd doesn't just exist in Arizona," said Del. C. Todd Gilbert
(R-Shenandoah), who is outspoken in the legislature against illegal immigration.
"We are definitely fighting the same fight they are."

Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors, kicked off a campaign to bring an Arizona-like law to localities
across the state. Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II garnered national headlines
last week when he issued an opinion that allows police to question the
immigration status of anyone stopped for any reason.

And Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R), who rarely mentioned illegal immigration
during his campaign last year and instead made an unprecedented push to court
votes in immigrant communities, is asking the federal government to train and
deputize state troopers so they can make legal-status checks and refer
individuals for deportation.

Virginia, already known for some of the nation's toughest policies on illegal
immigration, has attracted the attention of the same national groups that helped
Arizona craft its law. It appears on their list of top 10 targeted states.

But it remains a tough issue for some Republicans, including McDonnell, who has
tried to take a moderate, pragmatic approach during his short time in office.
Some conservatives warn that lawmakers need to protect against coming across as
insensitive to Hispanics -- a problem that has contributed to losses in state
and national elections.

Michael Thompson, executive director of the Thomas Jefferson Institute for
Public Policy, a conservative think tank based in Fairfax County, said some
Republicans have a "mean streak" when talking about immigration.

"It's a knee-jerk reaction. They need to be careful," he said. "The Republican
Party is just nuts if they do this the wrong way. Hispanics are the
second-largest minority group in the country today."

Back on the front burner

Virginia's recent  shift into the center of the national immigration debate was
more a reentry: Long before Arizona passed its new law, Herndon voted to close a
day-laborer center frequented by illegal immigrants, Prince William and Loudoun
counties had curtailed services to illegal immigrants and directed police to
check the immigration status of anyone arrested, and state lawmakers had
considered hundreds of immigration proposals.

"In some ways, this is coming back to Virginia from Arizona," said Tim Freilich,
legal director for the Legal Aid Justice Center in Virginia. "We see in the
Arizona statute many lessons I think the [national groups] learned in Prince
William County."

But after putting the issue at the center of their party platform for several
years, Republican interest in immigration waned because of the growing economic
crisis, a clearer understanding of the state's limitations on a largely federal
issue and backlash at the voting booth.

Republicans say that immigration has always been important but that the issue
was put on the back burner the past few years because the souring economy took
precedent.

"People were concerned about jobs, the economy, taxes," McDonnell said. "I
talked about what people were most concerned about at the time."

Cuccinelli said that "grass-roots activists" have always pressed him on
immigration but that voters told him last year it was not the top issue. He said
that even now, it  has not regained the importance it had in 2007, when the
economy was in better shape and more illegal immigrants were finding work in the
state, particularly in Northern Virginia.

But Stewart, one of the state's most outspoken elected officials on illegal
immigration, accused his party's leaders -- including McDonnell and Cuccinelli
-- of being "afraid" of the issue, even though last year he, too, declared the
issue over.

"Republicans play it too soft. They are afraid of being labeled intolerant," he
said. "It does take political courage. It's a politically risky issue."

About 275,000 to 325,000 of the 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be in
the United States live in Virginia, according to the Pew Hispanic Center in
Washington. The U.S. Census Bureau says an additional 435,000 people in Virginia
are not U.S. citizens and in the state legally.

Sen. Mary Margaret Whipple (D-Arlington), a leader in the Democratic-led body,
said Republicans have tried to take laws too far by targeting individuals based
on their appearance, not their behavior.

"Politically, it makes no sense to write off a segment of the U.S. population,"
Whipple said. "In the long run, it's a losing issue for the Republicans."

'It's an ideal issue'

Del. Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince William) said he asked for Cuccinelli's legal
opinion in May after the Arizona law passed because he thought that some of the
same people who were interested in combating illegal immigration a few years ago
would approach him again for a solution. He did not think he would be able to
get his proposals through the Senate, he said, and he wanted to have a better
understanding of what he could pursue before legislators return in January.

Since then, other proponents of tougher immigration enforcement have seized on a
recent car accident involving an illegal immigrant. The man was charged with
involuntary manslaughter and  drunken-driving-related counts after one nun was
killed and two others were injured when their car was hit head-on in Bristow.
Several lawmakers say they received calls and e-mails after the accident asking
for action.

"I think the Republicans, they've seen the polling and they've seen the public
interest. They're looking for a way to align themselves with that energy," said
Michael M. Hethmon, legal counsel for the national group Immigration Reform Law
Institute, which helped craft the Arizona law and provided technical assistance
to Stewart.

Stephen J. Farnsworth, a political analyst at George Mason University, said it
was inevitable for Republicans to return to immigration because they are mostly
united on the issue, while Democrats are divided.

"Immigration is too good an issue for Republicans not to come back to over and
over again," he said. "It behooves any Republican to take this up. It's an ideal
issue."

But some legislators say that Virginia, which was quick to act after it was
discovered that several of the Sept. 11 hijackers had state identification
cards, has done all it can.

It passed legislation requiring applicants to provide proof of citizenship or
legal presence in the United States, along with proof of Virginia residency. It
banned illegal immigrants from getting non-emergency taxpayer benefits, such as
welfare. It requires that jail officials check the immigration status of
everyone who has been arrested and taken into custody.

Sen. John C. Watkins (R-Chesterfield), who led a state immigration panel under
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine (D) and is now co-chairman of an immigration task force
for the National Conference of State Legislatures, said it's time for Congress
to step in.

"The federal government needs to do their job," he said.

Staff writer Rosalind S. Helderman and researcher Meg Smith contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 9, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

At celebration, immigration issues on minds;
Salvadoran festival in Va. comes as slew of laws is introduced

BYLINE: Stephanie Lee

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 618 words


From the sounds of the guitar to the spicy food, the festival celebrating El
Salvador's culture reminded Jose of everything he missed about his native
country. But he was initially reluctant to come.

The 25-year-old came to Virginia without documents in search of "a new life" and
works at construction jobs. He views himself as filling a national need by doing
work that he says most U.S. citizens don't want. New local and state legislation
aimed at catching illegal immigrants, however, has made him wary of venturing
out in public.

"The police can stop you and ask to see your documents," he said in Spanish. "To
me, this seems discriminatory against the community."

He was among the more than 1,500 attending the Salvadoran-American cultural
festival at the Prince William County Fairground on Sunday, the first of its
kind in the Washington area. But event organizers said that the turnout would
have been higher if not for the slew of recently introduced laws aimed at
cracking down on illegal immigration in the region.

The day before the festival, Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William
Board of County Supervisors, announced that Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials will soon release the identities and details of every convicted
illegal immigrant taken into custody in the county.

"Americans will be shocked when they realize how many convicted criminal illegal
[immigrants] are being released back into our communities and how long their
deportation proceedings take," Stewart (R) said in a news release.

Salvadoran culture was on full display at the fairgrounds Sunday. The Salvadoran
flag's blue-and-white stripes adorned everything from jerseys to jewelry. In the
sweltering heat, vendors stirred vats of horchata, a cold drink flavored with
almonds and cinnamon, while families munched on pupusas -- El Salvador's thicker
version of the tortilla, filled with cheese and meat. An elevated stage hosted a
number of musical acts, including a group of women and men who swayed to cumbia,
a traditional music and dance.

But despite the festivities, many attendees said they could not forget about the
policies that they say target and strike fear into their community.

Rosa Arias, 54, an Annandale resident who left San Salvador 35 years ago, said
her friends and neighbors who are in the country illegally would be reluctant to
attend such events.

"They don't come -- they're afraid of the police. A lot of the police stop you,"
Arias said. "If you don't have your papers, you go back to immigration and back
to the country."

Virginia is known for having some of the nation's toughest policies on illegal
immigration. Under an opinion recently issued by Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli
II, police are allowed to question the immigration status of anyone stopped for
any reason. And Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) is asking the federal government to
allow state troopers to make legal-status checks and refer individuals for
deportation.

Under their policy, Prince William police inquire about the citizenship status
only of people who are arrested and taken into custody for breaking state or
local laws.

As many as 325,000 of the 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be in the
United States reside in Virginia, says the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 435,000 other people in Virginia are not
U.S. citizens and are in the state legally.

Erica Granados, a festival volunteer and D.C. resident whose father emigrated
from El Salvador, said the laws were intimidating but wouldn't deter her
community from reveling in its heritage.

"We're in Virginia, where they least expect us to be," Granados, 19, said.
"We're here, and we're not going anywhere."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Evy Mages For The Washington Post; A woman dances with her son
at the Salvadoran festival. Despite the introduction of new laws related to
immigration, one festivalgoer said, "We're here, and we're not going anywhere."
IMAGE; Evy Mages For The Washington Post; The flags of El Salvador and the
United States hang side by side at the festival, which about 1,500 people
attended, organizers say.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

'Tea party' groups plan border rally against illegal immigration

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 539 words


"Tea party" groups are planning a large rally on Sunday in Arizona, near the
Mexican border, to support both the state's hard-line stance on illegal
immigration and the political campaign of the local talk show host who is
challenging Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.).

Candidate J.D. Hayworth, a former congressman turned conservative radio
commentator, is one of dozens of scheduled speakers for the morning rally on a
remote ranch about 100 miles south of Tucson.

Others include Sharron Angle, the Republican challenging Senate Majority Leader
Harry M. Reid (D) in Nevada,  and Sue Krentz, the wife of a rancher killed near
the rally site. The unsolved shooting death of Rob Krentz, who had spoken out on
the problem of illegal immigration, prompted the state legislature to pass a law
this year empowering police to question people if there is a "reasonable
suspicion" they are illegal immigrants.

A federal judge blocked some of the law's most controversial aspects last month
after the Justice Department challenged it in court.

"We're trying to stand behind Governor [Jan] Brewer while the federal government
is proceeding with its lawsuit challenging Arizona's right to protect its own
borders," said Tim Selaty Sr., vice president of a tea party group called United
We Stand for Americans.

Selaty said the group timed the rally to have maximum impact on Arizona's Aug.
24 Republican primary. Hayworth, a hard-liner on illegal immigration, is
challenging McCain, who until recently had been a strong voice for creating a
path to citizenship for those in the country illegally.

Hayworth, who lags significantly behind McCain in the polls, has hammered the
Arizona senator on his past support of what Hayworth calls amnesty. McCain has
recently toughened his stance. Last week, he joined the chorus of Republican
lawmakers who said they may be open to changing the country's longstanding
policy of granting automatic citizenship to anyone born on U.S. soil. They say
the policy, established in the Constitution's 14th Amendment, is a magnet for
illegal immigrants seeking the benefits of a U.S. passport for their children.

Although tea party groups have long argued for harsher penalties against illegal
border crossers, this will be the first large-scale rally on the U.S.-Mexican
border, Selaty said. Some participants say it could be as large as the one held
in March in Reid's home town of Searchlight, Nev., when thousands joined former
Alaska governor Sarah Palin to oppose Reid and protest the health-care overhaul.

Organizers hope the rally will also draw attention to porous sections of the
border, which they say have become  magnets for smugglers and drug traffickers.

Though some of the border  has the 13-foot-high barriers favored by those who
support stronger protections, some stretches have less-imposing vehicle walls
and some areas have no fence.

The event will take place on the private property of a local rancher, so
counterprotesters will not be permitted. Security will be provided by the U.S.
Border Patrol, two sheriff's offices and the rancher's personal security force,
Selaty said. Attendees will not be barred from bringing firearms, but organizers
are asking that they leave their long arms and rifles in their cars.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. steps up fingerprint program along border, in other areas

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 780 words


Immigration officials now have access to the fingerprints of every inmate booked
into jail in all 25 U.S. counties along the Mexican border, Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano announced Tuesday.

She touted the Secure Communities program as a way of identifying and deporting
"criminal aliens," but immigrant rights activists criticized it after obtaining
documents that show more than one-quarter of those deported under its auspices
had no criminal records.

The program "essentially co-opts police into doing the job of the federal
government," said Sunita Patel of the Center for Constitutional Rights, one of
several groups that forced the disclosure of documents through a Freedom of
Information Act lawsuit.

That charge is baseless, DHS officials said. Secure Communities gives
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents the ability to check the fingerprints
of those arrested against a database that will show whether they have ever been
deported or otherwise had contact with immigration agents.

If ICE determines that the person is in the country illegally, federal agents
can institute deportation proceedings. Records show that happens in some cases,
but not all.

"The Secure Communities initiative reflects ICE's ongoing commitment to smart,
tough enforcement strategies that help ensure the apprehension of dangerous
criminal aliens," ICE Director John Morton said. "Expediting removals decreases
the amount of time these individuals spend in ICE custody -- saving taxpayers
money and strengthening public safety."

By some estimates, as many as 1 million illegal immigrants  living in the United
States have committed crimes, Morton has said. ICE often is unaware of them,
even when they are in jail or prison.

In 2007, Mwenda Murithi, the Kenyan-born leader of a Chicago street gang,
ordered a murder that resulted in the death of a 13-year-old girl, who was
struck by a stray bullet as she frolicked on a playground. Murithi, now serving
55 years, had been arrested 26 times after his student visa was revoked in 2003
and was subject to immediate deportation, but Chicago officials never notified
ICE about him.

Secure Communities makes such notifications automatic. ICE says the program has
identified more than 262,900 illegal immigrants in jails and prisons who have
been charged with or convicted of criminal offenses, including more than 39,000
charged with or convicted of violent offenses or major drug crimes.

DHS has expanded the initiative from 14 to 544 jurisdictions in the past 18
months. Among the participants are the counties that include Los Angeles, San
Diego, Houston, Dallas, Phoenix, Miami and Philadelphia. ICE plans to implement
the program nationwide by 2013.

Overall, ICE expects to remove 400,000 illegal immigrants this year, a record.
Although ICE says it focuses on deporting criminals, it continues to expel
non-criminals. That practice has drawn criticism from immigration rights
advocates. But other critics say ICE is not tough enough.

In the first 10 months of fiscal year 2010, 142,000 illegal immigrants with
criminal records were deported, ICE says, one-third more than in the same period
of the prior year. About 50,000 non-criminals were removed.

Non-criminals also can include those who have failed to show up for deportation
hearings, those who recently crossed the border illegally or those who
re-entered the country after deportation, ICE spokesman Richard Rocha said.

Some of the immigrants deemed to be criminals have been convicted of minor
crimes, such as disorderly conduct.

The documents obtained by the immigration rights groups show that a total of
47,000 people have been removed since 2008 after being flagged under the Secure
Communities fingerprint-matching program. Of those, about 28 percent were
non-criminals, meaning they were arrested and booked, but not convicted.

There were a total of 119,000 fingerprint matches, but a match does not
automatically mean a person is subject to removal.

The advocates noted that in some counties the proportion of non-criminals
removed through Secure Communities was much higher -- 82 percent in Travis
County,  Tex., for example.

"This indicates that police officers are picking up people on pretexts" to
engineer their deportations, said Bridget Kessler of New York's Cardozo School
of Law.

A spokesman for Travis County sheriff Roger Wade said his agency had a policy of
not inquiring about the immigration status of its inmates.

A DHS official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was discussing
changes not yet announced, said the department was seeking changes to ensure a
focus on serious criminals and not on those who commit minor offenses.

-- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Preserving the Dream;
Sensible help for children of undocumented immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 485 words


IN MANY WAYS, Eric Balderas's story is the typical American dream. He came to
the United States with his parents at age 4. He was the valedictorian of
Highlands High School in San Antonio and was admitted to Harvard's class  of
2013. There, he studies molecular and cellular biology and is about to begin his
sophomore year. He dreams of helping to find a cure for cancer.

But there is one problem: He is not in the country legally. On June 7, boarding
an airplane back to Boston after visiting his mother in San Antonio, he was
arrested and threatened with deportation. There was an outcry--on Facebook, in
newspapers, even from members of Congress. Finally, U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement said it would not pursue his deportation, allowing him to remain in
the country to continue his studies.

Eric is only one of a number of students whose deportations the Obama
administration has declined to pursue, sensibly focusing its efforts on
deporting those undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes. But this
policy is not official -- and the administration has said it won't be without
the passage of immigration reform. Instead, the Department of Homeland Security
tackles student deportations case by case, leaving it vulnerable to criticism
for selectively enforcing the law and consuming time and resources better spent
expelling criminals. But even an official moratorium on student deportations
would only serve to keep students in the country, not offer them a path to
citizenship.

Rather than allowing this state of limbo for students to continue, Congress
should pass the Dream Act.

Sens. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) and Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind.) conceived the
Dream Act to offer a path to citizenship for thousands of promising young people
who came to the country illegally when they were  children. Some of these
students do not even know they are undocumented until they try to apply for
driver's licenses or scholarships. Rather than deporting them to countries many
of them barely remember, the Dream Act would help lead to naturalization for
youths who came to the United States before age 15, earned GEDs or high school
degrees and completed two years in college or in the armed forces. The measure
is carefully aimed, targeting only young people with clean records who have
resided in the country continuously for at least five years. Such students
demonstrate the hope and promise of a better life that America has always held
out to those who seek its shores. But without the Dream Act, they remain
vulnerable to deportation.

Comprehensive immigration reform is necessary to repair the broken immigration
system that strands thousands of deserving would-be immigrants on endless
waiting lists. But it may not be achieved before the end of the congressional
session. This is no excuse not to pass a sensible, narrowly tailored measure
that could have a significant, positive impact.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

A rare reprieve from immigration limbo;
Indian teen illegally in U.S. is allowed to pursue college in only home he's
known

BYLINE: David Montgomery

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1316 words


His younger brother is an American citizen. His parents were illegal immigrants,
deported to Bangladesh and India. For two years, Yves Gomes, who spent all but
14 months of his 17 years in Silver Spring, lived in limbo, wondering in which
direction his path lay.

On Monday, it looked like Kolkata.

Late Tuesday, he began to think it might be College Park.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement granted him a rare last-minute reprieve. His
deportation to India, scheduled for Friday, was put on hold. He could pursue his
stalled application to the University of Maryland.

The case, which has been used by immigrant advocates to publicize the parts of
the deportation system they consider most unfair, comes amid a heated national
debate about illegal immigration and controversy over how decisions are made
over whom to deport.

But for Gomes, who took five Advanced Placement classes in his senior year at
Paint Branch High School before graduating in June with a 3.8 grade-point
average, it was about something else equally compelling: his future in the only
country he has ever known.

"I consider myself an American," Gomes said this week, sitting on a couch in his
relatives' home, leafing through a children's Bengali alphabet book that he
could not decipher.

Gomes had been scheduled to be escorted to a plane Friday at John F. Kennedy
International Airport in New York to join his mother in Kolkata, where she was
deported last year. There, Cecilia Gomes said in a telephone interview, he would
share a room with three other relatives in a slum neighborhood where he would be
unable to speak the language, face health risks and have few prospects to pursue
his dream of becoming a doctor.

"Yes, he's not going to get a mom's love and a dad's love," she said. "But he's
17. His life is going to start. He has so many dreams. . . . I would rather
sacrifice not seeing him and see him be successful."

Those who call for stricter restrictions on immigration say children who were
brought here as infants by illegal immigrants should not be given a free pass
into the country.

"Obviously, kids in this situation are sympathetic cases," said Mark Krikorian,
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors tighter
controls. "My real concern is that it not become a policy that all people in
this position won't be deported because that then creates expectations and that
really is a formalized amnesty."

The government's process of tracking down and deporting Yves's parents and its
continued close watch on the high school student stand in contrast to the
experience of Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, who is charged with killing a nun
and injuring two others in Prince William County while driving drunk. The
Bolivian immigrant, who allegedly entered the United States illegally at 8 with
his parents and sister, has been awaiting a deportation hearing after two
convictions for drunken driving in 2007 and 2008.

Advocates of tougher enforcement, such as Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large),
chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors, cite
Martinelly-Montano's case to buttress their criticism of the system.

Yet ICE is deporting record numbers of illegal immigrants. It is on track to
remove about 400,000 this fiscal year, 25 percent more than in 2007. Authorities
highlight their focus on more serious offenders. They report that 51 percent of
deportees this year have been convicted of crimes, on top of immigration
violations. In 2008, criminal deportees made up fewer than one-third of people
forced to leave the United States.

Immigrant advocates complain that too many noncriminal illegal immigrants are
being swept up in tougher enforcement strategies. Examples such as Yves Gomes
are among the most attractive cases -- good students who would qualify for the
DREAM Act that has been introduced in Congress to offer a path to citizenship
for illegal immigrants who were brought here as children and who complete high
school. About 825,000 such immigrants would gain legal status if the act became
law, according to the Migration Policy Institute.

Activists at the Center for Community Change in Washington made Gomes a video
poster child for the impact of deportation on families. The center featured
Gomes in a "We are America" series of immigrant stories, circulated on the
Internet.  In many ways, the story of the Gomes (rhymes with "domes") family is
a typical illegal immigrant drama, though Yves's ultimate good fortune is not.

Robin and Cecilia Gomes had tourist visas when they brought 14-month-old Yves to
visit relatives in Silver Spring in 1994, according to lawyers, advocates and
family members. The parents immediately set about establishing legal residency.
During the process they obtained work permits and paid taxes. Robin was a hotel
waiter; Cecilia became an assistant professor of computer science at Northern
Virginia Community College. She gave birth to a second son, Aaron, now 15, an
American citizen.

Robin Gomes's appeal for political asylum was denied in 2006, and the family was
ordered to leave the country. By that time, the family's life was so rooted in
the United States, it seemed impossible to go, Cecilia Gomes said. In 2008, the
family was stopped by police for a faulty taillight. Days later, immigration
agents surrounded its house off New Hampshire Avenue and detained Robin Gomes.
It was the last time Yves and Aaron saw their father, who was deported to his
native Bangladesh.

Cecilia Gomes had to wear an ankle bracelet as she was given time to sell the
family's house and organize their affairs before being deported last year to her
native India. The boys moved in with their great uncle and aunt, Henry and
Dominica Gomes, who are naturalized U.S. citizens.

Then it was Yves's turn. The family's immigration attorney, Cynthia Groomes
Katz, who said she cut her fees in half because she believed in the case, won a
delay in his deportation so he could finish high school.

During what looked like his final days here, he spent as much time as he could
shooting hoops with close friends, college-bound fellow AP students. He couldn't
face the empty suitcase on the floor of his bedroom.

For the past two years, he had dwelt in ambiguity. He tried to stay busy. He ran
cross-country track and took as many AP classes as possible, so that if he
couldn't go to a U.S. college, he would have completed some college-level
coursework.

"He's one of the smartest students we've had here at Paint Branch," said Richard
Lee, his AP chemistry teacher. "He's just a really likable individual, very
modest, very humble. I know whatever he does in the future he's going to make a
positive impact. That's the number one reason I want him to stay."

Then, Tuesday evening, immigration authorities granted Katz's last-ditch request
for "deferred action" on the case. His case will be reviewed again in two years,
she said.

ICE deferred action on only 408 pending deportations in fiscal 2009, compared
with 387,790 total deportations, said Gillian Brigham, public affairs officer.

Brigham said that she could not discuss Yves's case because of privacy issues
but that in general, deferred action is a discretionary tool that might be
granted depending on the circumstances of a case, including humanitarian
reasons. "It doesn't mean they won't be removed at some point in the future,"
she said.

Yves said he has been accepted at several universities, including the U-Md.
Facing deportation, he did not commit to any before their deadlines. First on
his to-do list is to see whether he can still enroll. Katz is going to file
papers for a green card. Cecilia Gomes is pursuing legal remedies to return to
the United States, Katz said.

"I just feel so much happiness," Yves said. "Immediately what came into my mind
was: What am I going to do now? I can't just sit around. And I thought about all
the other thousands of kids who are in same situation as mine."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Michael S. Williamson/the Washington Post; Yves Gomes prays at
St. Camillus Catholic Church in Silver Spring, where he later spoke about his
immigration situation.
IMAGE; Photos By Michael S. Williamson/the Washington Post; Yves Gomes has been
accepted at several universities, including the University of Maryland, and
plans to see whether he can still enroll.
IMAGE; Yves, with his parents, Robin and Cecilia Gomes, in happier days. His
father has been deported to Bangladesh, his mother to India.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

The Week That Was

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW02

LENGTH: 348 words


Sunday 8

Va. GOP focuses again on immigration

Virginia Republicans are again embracing the issue of illegal immigration. Until
recently, the issue had taken a back seat to the economy. Gov. Robert F.
McDonnell (R) and Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II have recently addressed the
issue. McDonnell is asking the federal government to train and deputize state
troopers so they can make legal-status checks and refer individuals for
deportation. "In some ways, this is coming back to Virginia from Arizona," said
Tim Freilich, legal director for the Legal Aid Justice Center in Virginia. "We
see in the Arizona statute many lessons I think the [national groups] learned in
Prince William County."

Monday 9

Immigration on minds AT SALVADORAN FESTIVAL

More than 1,500 people attended the Salvadoran-American cultural festival at the
Prince William County Fairground, the first of its kind in the Washington area.
But event organizers said that the turnout would have been higher if not for the
slew of recently introduced laws aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration
in the region. Rosa Arias, 54, an Annandale resident who left San Salvador 35
years ago, said her friends and neighbors who are in the country illegally would
be reluctant to attend such events. "They don't come -- they're afraid of the
police. A lot of the police stop you," Arias said. "If you don't have your
papers, you go back to immigration and back to the country."

Friday 13

False tipster guilty of obstruction of justice

An Alexandria man, who called in a false tip to Virginia State Police falsely
accusing a Prince William County man of kidnapping Morgan Harrington from a
Charlottesville concert last fall, has been convicted of obstruction of justice,
police said. Investigators checked out the tip called in by Alvin T. Daniels,
51, and promptly determined that the 34-year-old Prince William man was not
involved. The false accusation was "an act of vengeance on the part of Daniels,"
State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller said Thursday.

For these and other articles, visit www.washingtonpost.com/princewilliam.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Evy Mages For The Washington Post; The Salvadoran-American
cultural festival celebrated two cultures.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 16, 2010 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The birthright debate;
What's needed is not a constitutional change.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 432 words


THE SERIOUS and necessary debate on illegal immigration has been hijacked in
recent days by a sometimes hysterical fight over birthright citizenship. It is a
nasty and wasteful diversion.

The 14th Amendment to the Constitution declares that "all persons born or
naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside." Children of
foreign diplomats are generally excluded.

Some on the right argue that the Constitution should be changed to prevent
U.S.-born children of undocumented immigrants from gaining automatic
citizenship, in part to prevent these "anchor babies" from being used to
legitimize their parents' presence in the country.

Those on the left charge that the talk about changing birthright citizenship is
evidence of deep-seated xenophobia; one activist argued that it puts the United
States "on the brink of legalizing apartheid."

Neither of these arguments is valid. The great majority of undocumented
immigrants come to this country looking for opportunities, just as generations
of immigrants have done. According to a recent study by the Pew Hispanic Center,
the new migrants tend to be younger and of child-bearing age. Although abuses
occur, in the vast majority of cases the birth of a child is a natural
happenstance and not an attempt to manipulate the system. The attacks from the
left, meanwhile, ignore or downplay the challenges posed by illegal migration
and unfairly ascribe hateful motives to all who raise questions about possible
fixes.

What is needed is not vitriol but serious legislation that provides a path to
citizenship for those who have been in the country illegally but have otherwise
been law-abiding, productive members of society. Last week's passage of a bill
to beef up border security is a welcome step, but efforts to staunch illegal
immigration should also include sanctions for employers who hire illegal workers
and a reliable system for businesses to verify the status of potential
employees.

Changing the Constitution should not be part of this solution. The 14th
Amendment was crafted after the Supreme Court issued a notoriously bad decision
in which it concluded that freed slaves and their U.S.-born children were not
citizens. Since then, the amendment has been read broadly to bestow the
privileges and responsibilities of citizenship on all of those born on U.S.
soil, regardless of the race, faith, economic circumstances or legal status of
the parents. And rightly so. This country of immigrants should not now turn its
back on this noble legacy.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

U.S. citizenship's tangled web

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 310 words


Recent assertions that the 14th Amendment should be revised to prevent illegal
immigrants from "baby dropping" could yield new ideas about what it means to be
an American citizen [" 'Tea party' groups plan border rally against illegal
immigration," news story, Aug. 11].  A review of the amendment could lead to a
change that would require the law to consider the legal status of a child's
parents even if he or she was born on American soil.

I believe that "true" American citizenship should be earned through generations
of hard work and not be a mere accident of birth. We should have tiered
citizenship based on how many generations a family has been in America. Each
tier would entitle people to different privileges, like tax breaks, health care
and butting in line at Disney World.

Why should I, whose family spent generations in America's many wars, be
considered equal to those who just arrived? Why is naturalized Rupert Murdoch
super-rich while I toil at a middle-class existence? My approach would restore
the sense of fairness and entitlement that many Americans feel they have lost.

Of course, with my family's many generations of service, I would take my
rightful place at the top of American society. That's only fair, isn't it?

Dave Roesch, Centreville

--

In the Aug. 16 Plum Line excerpt [op-ed], Greg Sargent defended Senate Majority
Leader Harry M. Reid's apology for introducing legislation in 1993 that would
have denied U.S. citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants.
Unfortunately, in the course of his defense, he presented the following facts:

1. Harry Reid is a U.S. senator.

2. Harry Reid said in his defense, verbatim, "I didn't understand the issue."

3. Harry Reid then introduced legislation on an issue he "didn't understand."

4. Harry Reid is now the Senate majority leader.

I will not be sleeping well tonight.

Robert Sutton, Chantilly

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

'Anchor babies' aren't the problem with immigration

BYLINE: Alberto R. Gonzales

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 985 words


Like most Americans, I am a descendant of immigrants and a grateful beneficiary
of the opportunities available to our nation's citizens. My grandparents
emigrated from Mexico in the early 20th century seeking a better life, and they
found it working in the fields and dairy farms of Texas. Diversity is one of the
great strengths of the United States -- diversity fueled by the migration of
ethnicities, cultures and ideas.

Today, however, there is virtually universal agreement that our immigration
process is broken. While security on our southern border has improved in the
past decade, it remains inadequate in a post-9/11 world. Many employers hire
undocumented workers with little concern about prosecution. Thousands of people
cross our borders illegally believing they will not be arrested, expecting
instead to receive benefits and, eventually, amnesty.

Based on what I have observed, most illegal immigrants come to America to
provide for their families, and by most accounts, they contribute to our
economy. Nevertheless, we are a nation of laws. When people break the law with
impunity, it encourages further disobedience and breeds further disrespect for
the rule of law.

Obama administration officials went to court recently to stop Arizona from
enforcing federal immigration laws through a newly enacted state law, arguing
that the Constitution gives them sole authority in this arena. How the courts
will ultimately decide this question is unclear, but with the federal
government's claim of authority comes responsibility -- and so far, our national
leaders have failed us.

President George W. Bush pushed for comprehensive immigration reform, but
Republican members of Congress refused to join him. Although President Obama and
the present congressional leadership have used their majority to enact sweeping
health-care and financial reform, they seem to lack the will to try to pass
comprehensive immigration legislation. Even my apolitical and saintly
78-year-old mother wonders whether the Democrats are keeping this issue on the
table for political reasons, hoping that Republicans will propose enforcement
measures that alienate Hispanic voters.

Most recently, some politicians and concerned citizens have expressed a desire
to amend the 14th Amendment of our Constitution, which says in Section 1, "All
persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein
they reside." Proponents want to discourage undocumented mothers from crossing
our borders to give birth to children derogatorily referred to as "anchor
babies," who by law are American citizens. Such a change is difficult to carry
out, as it should be, requiring a new amendment ratified by three-quarters of
the states.

I do not support such an amendment. Based on principles from my tenure as a
judge, I think constitutional amendments should be reserved for extraordinary
circumstances that we cannot address effectively through legislation or
regulation. Because most undocumented workers come here to provide for
themselves and their families, a constitutional amendment will not solve our
immigration crisis. People will certainly continue to cross our borders to find
a better life, irrespective of the possibilities of U.S. citizenship.

As the nation's former chief law enforcement officer and a citizen who believes
in the rule of law, I cannot condone anyone coming into this country illegally.
However, as a father who wants the best for my own children, I understand why
these parents risk coming to America -- especially when there is little fear of
prosecution. If we want to stop this practice, we should pass and enforce
comprehensive immigration legislation rather than amend our Constitution.

We need a new immigration policy that complements our national security policy
as well as our economic policy. In a post-9/11 world, we must know who is coming
into this country and why -- we cannot have true security if we do not secure
our borders. Our policy should reinforce respect for the law through effective
enforcement that includes a streamlined deportation process and tougher
penalties on employers that hire undocumented workers.

Our immigration policy should also promote commerce and strengthen our economy.
The reality is that there are jobs Americans do not want, and there are skilled
jobs for which Americans are not available. Our policy should include a more
robust temporary-worker program (without more bureaucracy) that attracts both
skilled and unskilled workers to sustain our economy.

Finally, our immigration policy must be practical, enforceable and capable of
effective implementation without enormous delays or many mistakes. It must also
be fair to those who follow the rules.

As our nation's first Hispanic attorney general, I have seen both the beauty of
our tradition of immigration as well as the threats that come with a broken
system. We need to fix the process. This work will be complicated, because the
best solution will surely affect families, foreign policy, national security,
our economy -- and will touch upon the very essence of who we are as a country.
It will take courage to pass meaningful legislation, but to do less or to take
shortcuts places our security at risk. Americans expect and deserve better of
their leaders in Washington.

arg@argonzales.com

Alberto R. Gonzales served as White House counsel and U.S. attorney general in
the George W. Bush administration. He is a visiting professor of political
science at Texas Tech University.

For more opinions on the 14th Amendment debate, check out the following:

"Is the GOP shedding a birthright?" by E.J. Dionne.

"Why the GOP really wants to alter the 14th Amendment," by Harold Meyerson.

"Republicans are ramping up the birthright battle," by Michael Gerson.

"On immigration, Lindsey Graham abandons principle," by Michael Gerson.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Born here, it's their Washington

BYLINE: Daniel Brook

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 603 words


Like so many residents of our nation's capital, I live here but am not from
here. I moved to the District from Pennsylvania a few weeks ago for a five-month
research fellowship. Come Christmastime, I'll be gone.

Most mornings, I walk from my apartment to the Columbia Heights Metro station
and take the train to my office on Capitol Hill. As I exit, the looming Capitol
dome is an unfailingly impressive sight. The building and what it represents --
"a republic, if you can keep it," as Ben Franklin famously put it -- remain
inspiring even if, from what I read, very little actually happens there of late.

Despite massive unemployment, two wars and an overheating planet, the only issue
that has Congress working overtime is immigration. Majority Leader Harry Reid
(D-Nev.) recently convened a special August session to approve a $600 million
border security bill. As the midterm elections draw near, a movement is afoot
among Republicans to change the 14th Amendment to strip citizenship from the
American-born children of illegal immigrants. Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell (R-Ky.) has come out in favor of holding hearings on the matter.

For many Americans, the targets of this proposed constitutional change -- the
children of undocumented immigrants -- are an abstraction. They long were for
me, too. But not since I moved to Washington. My new neighborhood, on the border
between Columbia Heights and Mount Pleasant, is as filled with Latin American
immigrants and their children as it is with people like me -- college-educated,
temporary Washington transplants.

I don't know how many of my neighbors are undocumented, but I suspect the number
runs in the thousands. The panderias and taquerias along Mount Pleasant Street
are filled with immigrant families. So is my local branch of the D.C. Public
Library. On weekends, the men play soccer in Meridian Hill Park, just outside my
window. While many of the grown-ups speak only Spanish, their children speak
clear, American English. While the fathers play futbol, their sons often
skateboard or play catch on the sidelines. And while transplants like me bring
our far-flung accents to the District (despite my best attempts, I haven't
completely excised the discordant strains of my Brooklyn birth and Long Island
rearing), it is these immigrants' children who speak with a Washingtonian
accent, an accent so rare in this city of transplants that many will tell you it
doesn't exist at all.

These children of immigrants are the true Washingtonians. While I go about this
city trying to train myself to say "carry-out" instead of "take-out" and figure
out what exactly a half-smoke is, for these kids Washington is their world. For
many, it is the place they were born. It is their "normal." Washington is their
city in a way it will never be my city. And America is as much their country as
it is mine -- the great-grandson of immigrants, one of whom, incidentally, came
here illegally.

So it is terribly ironic that back on the Hill, senators such as Lindsey Graham,
with his syrupy Southern drawl, and representatives including John Boehner, with
his stentorian Midwestern twang, are painting their Washington neighbors -- the
ultimate D.C. locals -- as outsiders.

There are real issues in the immigration debate. But however America decides to
deal with those who entered this country illegally, their children are
Americans. It is not only unjust but also illogical to treat them as anything
else. Go meet one and you'll see.

Daniel Brook, the author of "The Trap: Selling Out to Stay Afloat in
Winner-Take-All America," is a journalist living in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Illegal immigrant population in U.S. drops, report says

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 2167 words


WASHINGTON - A deep recession and tougher border enforcement have led to a sharp
decline in the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally in the
past five years, contributing to the first significant reversal in the growth of
their numbers in two decades, according to a new report by the Pew Hispanic
Center.

The number of illegal immigrants entering the United States plunged by almost
two-thirds between 2005 and 2009, a dramatic shift after years of growth in the
population, according to the report.

In the first half of the decade, an average of 850,000 people a year entered the
United States without authorization, according to the report, released
Wednesday. As the economy plunged into recession between 2007 and 2009, that
number fell to 300,000.

The drop has contributed to an 8 percent decrease in the estimated number of
illegal immigrants living in the United States, from a peak of 12 million in
2007 to 11.1 million in 2009, the report said. Of the 11.1 million, 60 percent
came from Mexico, 20 percent from other parts of Latin America, 11 percent from
Asia, and 9 percent from Africa, Europe, Canada and elsewhere. The new figures
come amid a heated national debate over efforts by Arizona and other
jurisdictions to identify people who are here illegally and push to have them
deported.

Virginia, Florida and Nevada had the most significant declines in their
populations of illegal immigrants. The large declines in Florida and Nevada were
probably due to the housing crisis and the loss of thousands of construction
jobs, which immigrants often fill, experts said. Florida's illegal immigrant
population fell by 375,000, to an estimated 675,000, between 2008 and 2009, and
Nevada's decreased by 50,000 to an estimated 180,000 during that period.

The number in Virginia fell by 65,000, to 240,000, a decline that Jeffrey
Passel, an author of the report, attributed to the economy as well as to
stricter legislation passed in Prince William County in 2007 and 2008.

Although the report's authors did not have information about population
decreases at the county level, a 2009 University of Virginia study of the
legislation's effect on Prince William County, Va., showed a decline in the
number of children enrolled in ESOL classes and in the number of uninsured
mothers giving birth, both suggestive of the presence of recent and poor
immigrants, said Audrey Singer, who specializes in immigration at the Brookings
Institution.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors and
a champion of the legislation, said he was "proud" of the county's role in
decreasing the illegal immigrant population. "Our resolution on illegal
immigration resulted in thousands of illegal aliens leaving Prince William,"
said Stewart, who has called for Virginia to adopt a law similar to Arizona's.

But Stewart (R-At Large) predicted that the declining numbers of illegal
immigrants in Virginia would be temporary without stricter enforcement
statewide. "They're just going to come back once the economy recovers," he said.

Douglas Massey, a Princeton University sociologist who studies migration, said
the recession and the lack of jobs are major factors in the reduction of people
entering the country illegally.

The unemployment rate for unauthorized immigrants is 10.4 percent, higher than
that of either U.S.-born residents or legal immigrants, said the Pew report,
which used data from the Current Population Survey, a monthly report on 55,000
households conducted by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Census
Bureau. Pew, a premier research organization on immigration matters, calculated
the number of unauthorized immigrants by adjusting the statistics up by 10 to 15
percent to account for undercounts, said D'Vera Cohnâ[#x2c6][#x161], an author
of the report. The size of the undercount was determined by factors including
Mexico's population size, U.S. mortality data and research conducted during the
2000 Census around the issue of undercounting, she said.

Massey also pointed to a rise in guest-worker visas, from 104,000 in 2000 to
302,000 in 2009, allowing more immigrants to come to the United States legally.
The other likely reasons for the decline, he said, include an increase in law
enforcement and deportations, and enactment of stricter legislation against
illegal immigrants.

"Life's gotten pretty miserable for immigrants in the United States," he said,
noting that even for legal immigrants, many of whom have relatives who are
unauthorized, the increased scrutiny has been stressful.

Researchers noted that the return of illegal immigrants to their home countries
also has leveled off in the past five years, as back-and-forth travel has become
more dangerous and expensive.

But over the past decade, the flow of legal immigrants into the United States
increased slightly, according to the report, which noted that the trends have
reduced the percentage of immigrants who are here illegally, from 31 percent of
all immigrants in 2007 to 29 percent in 2009.

Although an earlier Pew study pointed to signs of fewer illegal immigrants in
recent years, the new report reveals the first statistically significant
reversal in the growth of the population in the past 20 years, said Passel, a
senior demographer at Pew who also co-authored the earlier study.

"We know that it's harder to sneak across the border than it was four or five
years ago, and especially than it was 10 or 15 years ago," he said. "Virtually
everyone who sneaks across the border uses a 'coyote' now, and the cost has gone
up. The increase of the Border Patrol around cities and ports of entry has
pushed the flows across the border into more remote places."

The report's findings were hailed by Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which advocates tighter immigration controls. The figures
contradict "the idea that the only options before us are mass expulsions or mass
amnesty," he said. "This finding points to the middle way, of a consistent
decrease of the illegal population over time through enforcement."

Nationally, the trajectory of the population is also likely to depend on the
strength of the economic recovery and the level of enforcement of immigration
laws, Passel said.

"In the past, the flows have moved in line with the state of the U.S. economy,"
he said. "But we have stepped-up enforcement right now. Right now, both are
working in the same direction. If the economy turns around and enforcement is
increased, we don't know."

A deep recession and tougher border enforcement have led to a sharp decline in
the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally in the past five
years, contributing to the first significant reversal in the growth of their
numbers in two decades, according to a new report by the Pew Hispanic Center.

The number of illegal immigrants entering the United States plunged by almost
two-thirds between 2005 and 2009, a dramatic shift after years of growth in the
population, according to the report.

In the first half of the decade, an average of 850,000 people a year entered the
United States without authorization, according to the report, released
Wednesday. As the economy plunged into recession between 2007 and 2009, that
number fell to 300,000.

The drop has contributed to an 8 percent decrease in the estimated number of
illegal immigrants living in the United States, from a peak of 12 million in
2007 to 11.1 million in 2009, the report said. Of the 11.1 million, 60 percent
came from Mexico, 20 percent from other parts of Latin America, 11 percent from
Asia, and 8 percent from Africa, Europe, Canada and elsewhere. The new figures
come amid a heated national debate over efforts by Arizona and other
jurisdictions to identify people who are here illegally and push to have them
deported.

Virginia, Florida and Nevada were among the states with the steepest declines in
their populations of illegal immigrants. Large declines in illegal immigrants in
Florida and Nevada were probably because of the housing crisis  and the loss of
thousands of construction jobs, which immigrants often fill, experts said.
Florida's illegal immigrant population fell by 375,000, to an estimated 675,000,
between 2008 and 2009, and Nevada's decreased by 50,000 to an estimated 180,000
during that period.

The number in Virginia fell by 65,000, to 240,000, a decline that Jeffrey
Passel, an author of the report, attributed to the economy as well as to
stricter legislation passed in Prince William County in 2007 and 2008.

Although the report's authors did not have information about population
decreases at the county level, a 2009 University of Virginia study of the
legislation's effect on Prince William showed a decline in the number of
children enrolled in ESOL classes and in the number of uninsured mothers giving
birth, both suggestive of the presence of recent and poor immigrants, said
Audrey Singer, who specializes in immigration at the Brookings Institution.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors and
a champion of the legislation, said he was "proud" of the county's role in
decreasing the illegal immigrant population. "Our resolution on illegal
immigration resulted in thousands of illegal aliens leaving Prince William,"
said Stewart, who has called for Virginia to adopt a law similar to Arizona's.

But Stewart (R-At Large) predicted that the declining numbers of illegal
immigrants in Virginia would be temporary without stricter enforcement
statewide. "They're just going to come back once the economy recovers," he said.

Douglas Massey, a Princeton University sociologist who studies migration, said
the recession and the lack of jobs are major factors in the decline of people
entering the country illegally.

The unemployment rate for unauthorized immigrants is 10.4 percent, higher than
that of either U.S.-born residents or legal immigrants said the Pew report,
which used data from the Current Population Survey, a monthly report on 55,000
households conducted by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Census
Bureau.

Pew, a premier research organization on immigration matters, calculated the
number of unauthorized immigrants by adjusting the statistics up by 10 to 15
percent to account for undercounts, said D'Vera Cohnâ[#x2c6][#x161], an author
of the report. The size of the undercount was determined by factors including
Mexico's population size, U.S. mortality data and research conducted during the
2000 Census around the issue of undercounting, she said.

Massey also pointed to a rise in guest-worker visas, from 104,000 in 2000 to
302,000 in 2009, allowing more immigrants to come to the United States legally.
The other likely reasons for the decline, he said, include an increase in law
enforcement and deportations, and enactment of stricter legislation against
illegal immigrants.

"Life's gotten pretty miserable for immigrants in the United States," he said,
noting that even for legal immigrants, many of whom have relatives who are
unauthorized, the increased scrutiny has been stressful.

Researchers noted that the return of illegal immigrants to their home countries
also has leveled off in the past five years, as back-and-forth travel has become
more dangerous and expensive.

But over the past decade, the flow of legal immigrants into the United States
increased slightly, according to the report, which noted that the trends have
reduced the percentage of immigrants who are here illegally, from 31 percent of
all immigrants in 2007 to 29 percent in 2009.

Although an earlier Pew study pointed to signs of fewer illegal immigrants in
recent years, the new report reveals the first statistically significant
reversal in the growth of the population in the past 20 years, said Passel, a
senior demographer at Pew.

"We know that it's harder to sneak across the border than it was four or five
years ago, and especially than it was 10 or 15 years ago," he said. "Virtually
everyone who sneaks across the border uses a 'coyote' now, and the cost has gone
up. The increase of the Border Patrol around cities and ports of entry has
pushed the flows across the border into more remote places."

The report's findings were hailed by Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which advocates tighter immigration controls.

The figures contradict "the idea that the only options before us are mass
expulsions or mass amnesty," he said. "This finding points to the middle way, of
a consistent decrease of the illegal population over time through enforcement."

Nationally, the trajectory of the population is also likely to depend on the
strength of the economic recovery and the level of enforcement of immigration
laws, Passel said.

"In the past, the flows have moved in line with the state of the U.S. economy,"
he said. "But we have stepped-up enforcement right now. Right now, both are
working in the same direction. If the economy turns around and enforcement is
increased, we don't know."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 3, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The patch in our safety net;
Illegal immigrants are helping to keep Social Security solvent

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY

LENGTH: 735 words


The contributions by unauthorized immigrants to Social Security -- essentially,
to the retirement income of everyday Americans -- are much larger than
previously known, raising questions about the efforts in many states and among
Republicans in Congress to force these workers out.

In response to a research inquiry for a book I am writing on the economics of
immigration, Stephen C. Goss, the chief actuary of the Social Security
Administration and someone who enjoys bipartisan support for his
straightforwardness, said that by 2007, the Social Security trust fund had
received a net benefit of somewhere between $120 billion and $240 billion from
unauthorized immigrants.

That represented an astounding 5.4 percent to 10.7 percent of the trust fund's
total assets of $2.24 trillion that year. The cumulative contribution is surely
higher now. Unauthorized immigrants paid a net contribution of $12 billion in
2007 alone, Goss said.

Previous estimates circulating publicly and in Congress had placed the annual
contributions at roughly half of Goss's 2007 figure and listed the cumulative
benefit on the order of $50 billion.

The Social Security trust fund faces a solvency crisis that would be even more
pressing were it not for these payments.

"If for example we had not had other-than-legal immigrants in the country over
the past," Goss e-mailed me, "then these numbers suggest that we would have
entered persistent shortfall of tax revenue to cover [payouts] starting [in]
2009, or six years earlier than estimated under the 2010 Trustees Report."

Americans are faced with the difficult choice of cutting pensions, delaying the
retirement age or raising taxes if we want to maintain the solvency of what has
been the centerpiece of social welfare for ordinary Americans since the 1930s.

Legal immigrants are also net contributors to the pensions of the rest of us
because they are relatively young as a group. But the benefit we receive from
unauthorized immigrants carries special irony. Immigration restrictionists in
Arizona, Virginia, Texas and almost every state in the country are pushing bills
and local ordinances to force them out by making it difficult to get jobs, rent
apartments, send their children to college or drive cars.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimated this week that the number of unauthorized
immigrants in the country dropped from a peak of 12 million in March 2007 to
11.1 million in March 2009. The drop is due in part to the recession but also to
the hostile atmosphere toward unauthorized immigrants.

The Obama administration isn't helping much. Barack Obama, like George W. Bush
before him, favors legalizing most of the unauthorized. But in making
enforcement systems tighter to curtail future illegal immigration, his
administration is deporting ever more of the ones already here -- to the tune of
400,000 this year. Yet the administration has resisted pressuring congressional
Democrats to craft a legalization bill, in part because of Republican
opposition.

Adding to the Social Security irony is that the restrictionists are mostly older
or retired whites from longtime American families. The very people, in other
words, who benefit most from the Social Security payments by unauthorized
immigrants.

The Social Security actuaries estimate that two-thirds of unauthorized immigrant
workers, or 5.6 million people, were paying into the system in 2007. Roughly
half used a Social Security number tied to an invented name or one that belonged
to someone else. Of the rest, many got legal cards when they entered the country
under a temporary work visa. They stayed illegally after their visas expired.

About 180,000 unauthorized immigrants received about $1 billion in fraudulent
benefits in 2007, Goss said. These benefits are subtracted from the net
contribution. Few of the unauthorized workers are likely to receive anything,
ever. About the only way they might would be if they were to become legal, and
they had paid their withholding taxes using their true names.

The decline in illegal immigration, plus tighter workplace enforcement, means
that contributions from the unauthorized will decrease. But as Goss notes, they
remain, because of larger families, a positive contributing factor to Social
Security solvency.

Somebody ought to say thank you.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Senate to look at Dream Act for illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 710 words


The Senate will consider Tuesday whether hundreds of thousands of immigrants who
were brought to the United States illegally as children should be placed on a
path to citizenship.

The controversial measure is being pushed by Senate Majority Leader Harry M.
Reid (D-Nev.), who bypassed usual Senate procedures by including it in a defense
reauthorization bill.

Opponents consider the Dream Act a form of amnesty and have accused Reid and
other Democrats of using it to appeal to Hispanic voters, an important
constituency, as the midterm elections approach. Supporters, who include retired
Gen. Colin L. Powell and other military officials, have argued that the measure
is long overdue, humane and practical.

The Dream Act would open the door to citizenship for undocumented immigrants
younger than 36 who arrived in the United States as children, have lived here
for five years or more, and are contributing to the country by attending college
or serving in the military.

Although about 2.1 million of the approximately 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the country could be eligible for legalization under such
criteria, the Migration Policy Institute has estimated that only about 825,000
people would be able to take advantage of the provision.

The prospects for the legislation to pass are considered slim, particularly
given the public's embrace of tough immigration laws in Arizona and other
states. Several versions of the Dream Act have been debated in Congress over the
past decade, but none of the measures has succeeded.

Nevertheless, Powell argued for its passage Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press."

"We have millions and millions of illegal immigrants in our country,
undocumented individuals who are working, who are doing things we need done in
this country," he said. While acknowledging the need for tighter border controls
to reduce illegal immigration, the former secretary of state told host David
Gregory that immigrants "are all over my house doing things whenever I call for
repairs, and I am sure you have seen them at your house. We have got to find a
way to bring these people out of the darkness and give them some kind of
status."

The maneuvering in the Senate comes as Reid is locked in a tight reelection
battle against Republican Sharron Angle, a favorite of the "tea party" movement.

Polls show that Reid is in a dead heat with Angle or narrowly ahead. Hispanic
voters, who constitute as much as a quarter of voters in the state, are expected
to strongly back passage of the Dream Act. For the moment, both the Reid and
Angle campaigns are betting the issue will help them.

In a campaign ad released last week, Angle suggested that the Senate majority
leader is the "best friend" that illegal immigrants could have.

"Instead of addressing the unemployment issue, Harry Reid will spend this week
in Washington D.C. trying to push a form of amnesty through the Senate," Angle
said in a statement. "Sadly, the Dream Act is another attempt to incentivize
illegal aliens to cross our borders to gain citizenship."

Reid spokesman Jim Manley rejected the notion that the senator had politics in
mind when he added the Dream Act to the defense bill.

"The Defense Department Strategic Plan explicitly says the passage of the Dream
Act is critical to shape and maintain a mission-ready all-volunteer force," he
said.

Pro-immigration groups, which had hoped that the sympathetic stories of young
people trapped by their parents' decision to come to the United States might be
the driver of an immigration overhaul, have rallied behind the measure, even as
their hopes for comprehensive reform have crumbled.

"The Dream Act's motivation may be political, but it is also the right thing to
do," said the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic
Christian Leadership Conference, a group of evangelical Latinos.

A 16-year-old student at Global Community High School in Las Vegas said she is
eagerly awaiting the Senate vote.

"If the Dream Act passes, it is like a door that opens for me and I would say,
'Yeah, I am going to go to college,'" said the student, who came to the United
States illegally with her parents from Mexico. "If the Dream Act comes true, it
would be like a real dream."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Senate Republicans hold up Dream Act for children of immigrants

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 599 words


Republican lawmakers on Tuesday stalled a Senate measure to allow children of
undocumented immigrants to get on a path to citizenship, and accused the Obama
administration of seeking amnesty for illegal immigrants through administrative
changes within the Department of Homeland Security.

The Dream Act, which would grant permanent residency to immigrants who were
brought to the United States as children and who have completed some time in
college or in the armed forces has been a sought-after goal for Democrats, who
attached the measure to an important defense spending bill. Republicans used a
procedural vote to block the bill. Immigration advocates accused Republicans of
sacrificing the well-being of thousands of young people to cater to nativist
sentiment.

Brent Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, said the vote showed that the Republican party had "once again proven
that when Latinos need support, they support a different constituency even when
the constituency they are supporting does not have a dog in the fight. If my
kids are legal and they are going to college, why would I want to stick it to my
neighbor's kids?"

Senate Democrats vowed to reintroduce the Dream Act, but odds of the measure
becoming law this year are slim.

In a day of fast-moving action, Republicans released a draft of a memo they said
was composed by Department of Homeland Security staff to explore ways to create
a more lenient immigration system, with expedited approvals for visas and family
reunification, and measures to head off deportations of undocumented immigrants.

"Done right, a combination of benefit and enforcement-related measures could
provide the administration with a clear-cut political win," reads the draft
memo, dated Feb. 26, 2010. The draft, released by Republican senators to the
news media, does not cite an author. A Republican congressional staff member who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk about
the matter said the memo was sent to Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano.

"We would need to give the legislative process enough time to play out to
deflect against charges of usurping Congressional authority," the 10-page memo
says. Referring to the hopes for passing comprehensive immigration reform (CIR),
it adds, "announcement of such measures would have to wait until it was evident
that no legislative action on CIR was possible by the current Congress. This is
likely to mean the best time for administrative action will be late summer or
fall -- when the midterm election season is in full swing."

The idea that the department was seeking to administratively accomplish what
Democratic lawmakers had failed to deliver legislatively was ludicrous, said
Matt Chandler, a DHS spokesman.

"As we have said repeatedly, DHS will not grant deferred action or humanitarian
parole to the nation's illegal immigrant population," he said in an e-mail, as
he explained that the agency welcomed policy proposals from staff, but rejected
bad ideas. Already, he added, immigration authorities' "record-breaking
enforcement statistics speak for themselves - removing more aliens in 2009 than
in any prior year in the agency's history and already surpassing records for
criminal alien removals in 2010 - and demonstrate that we are doing more than
ever before to enforce U.S. immigration laws. To be clear, we are not engaged in
a 'backdoor' amnesty and are on pace to place more people in immigration
proceedings this year than ever before."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Illegal immigrants drive unlicensed, often in fear

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour;Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1223 words


Jesus eased his black Chevy Tahoe through a neighborhood of tidy brick and
clapboard houses, postage-stamp lawns and chain-link fences. It was 6 a.m., and
Woodbridge was dotted with Hispanic men waiting for carpools.

Sometimes Jesus, 43, a tall, muscular bricklayer from Mexico, gets a ride to
work, too, with a brother-in-law who is a U.S. citizen and has a driver's
license. But often, like a growing number of illegal immigrants who live in
states where they cannot legally obtain a driver's license, he takes a risk: He
drives without one, although he knows it could get him deported.

Jesus, who like others in this story did not want his last name used because he
fears attracting the attention of immigration authorities, said he obeys the
speed limit, signals at every turn and stops at every stop sign. He also doesn't
venture onto the roadways at night.

"Driving in the work hours, you don't have no problems," he said, joining the
river of commuters on the Capital Beltway. Portraits of the Virgin of Guadalupe
and Jesus Christ hung above his left shoulder. "I just drive and try to drive
good," he said, "so the police do not stop me."

About 11 million immigrants live in the United States without authorization,
according to estimates by the Pew Hispanic Center. It is impossible to know how
many of them drive without licenses, experts say.

Last year in Prince William County, 205 illegal immigrants were charged with
driving without licenses - 10 percent of those cited for that offense, police
said. And in Frederick County, 31 percent of those arrested for driving without
a license - 124 people in all - were referred to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

But most police departments do not keep arrest statistics on undocumented
immigrants. Nor does ICE track the number of people it deports who were caught
driving without licenses.

But it is safe to assume that the numbers have soared as more states, after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, have stopped granting licenses to those who
cannot prove legal presence in the United States or produce Social Security
numbers.

In 2002, at least 16 states, including Maryland, issued such licenses, according
to the National Immigration Law Center. Now, only New Mexico and Washington
state issue licenses without either a Social Security number or proof of legal
presence. (Utah offers year-long "driving privilege cards" to thousands of
people without Social Security numbers or proof of lawful presence.)

The District requires only a Social Security number. Maryland last year began
requiring both proof of lawful presence and a Social Security number. Virginia
has required both since 2004.

And last month, Virginia announced that it would stop accepting federal work
permit cards as proof of legal residence after a drunken-driving accident in
Prince William killed a Benedictine nun and injured two others. The illegal
immigrant charged in the crash, Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, was a
twice-convicted drunk driver using a suspended license that he had obtained with
a work permit.

'Tacit legitimization'

Virginia's decision sparked protests outside the Department of Motor Vehicles
office in Arlington County, but the debate about whether to grant driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants has been heated for years.

Critics say that giving undocumented immigrants licenses enables them to live in
the United States more easily and will encourage more to come here illegally.

"Giving them a license is a tacit legitimization of their presence here," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
supports tighter immigration controls.

Advocates say that the undocumented will drive if that's the only way they can
get to work or other places they need to go. Giving illegal immigrants licenses
or permits makes them more likely to insure their vehicles and allows the
government to keep better track of them, they say.

"They have kids who need to get to school or who need to get to the doctor. They
need to buy groceries," said Joan Friedland, managing attorney at the National
Immigration Law Center. "People would prefer to have licenses and get
insurance."

Adrian, a 45-year-old carpenter from El Salvador who lives in Gaithersburg, said
his heart pounds every time he gets behind the wheel. He drives only when he has
no other way to get to a job.

"Every time I get in the car, I think of my family," he said. In El Salvador, he
supports a wife and four children, whom he hasn't seen in seven years. "If the
police arrest me, then who will look out for them?"

For now, Adrian's car, a Toyota Camry, is insured through a fifth child, a
24-year-old son who lives in Maryland,  who got a Maryland license before the
law changed. But that license, like those of illegal immigrants in other states
that have ceased to grant them, will one day expire and not be renewable.

"Statistics are hard to come up with, because you're getting more and more
people who had driver's licenses in the past, and now they're expiring," said
Marty Rosenbluth, staff attorney with Southern Coalition for Social Justice. As
the licenses expire, immigration experts predict, more drivers will join the
ranks of the unlicensed.

Adrian said that about half of his friends drive without licenses. Ten who were
caught doing so are in deportation proceedings and wear ankle-bracelet monitors.

But getting stopped and found to be driving without a license doesn't always
lead to deportation, said Kraig Troxell, a spokesman for the sheriff's office in
Loudoun County, which, like Prince William's, trains its police officers to
identify and detain illegal immigrants. If drivers can identify themselves and
have no criminal record and police aren't seeking them for another reason, he
said, offenders are often issued summonses and sent on their way.

Prince William also gives officers discretion to issue a warning or a summons,
said Sgt. Kim Chinn, a police spokeswoman, adding that even when police stop
illegal immigrants who have no licenses, they generally are not taken into
custody if they can prove their identity.

Part of the reason may be because ICE is unequipped to deal with the increasing
number of illegal immigrants driving without licenses. The agency has said it is
concentrating on the pursuit and deportation of those with more serious criminal
backgrounds.

But fear of deportation prompted Feliz Ayala, 53, a Honduran living in
Gaithersburg, to stop driving without a license after only two days.

"Every time I saw a police car," he said, "I thought he was coming for me."

Adrian said he hates breaking the law. And if he is caught, he has no doubt
about what would happen. "They would deport me," he said.

And then what? Would he return to the United States? He paused. "Maybe not.
Because the laws are worse now."

They are not bad enough to deter Carlos, 43, who has spent the past year using
public transportation or relying on friends to ferry him from his Gaithersburg
home to jobs in the region. Without driving, however, he has not been able to
make enough money to support his wife and four children in Mexico.

So he has made a decision. With the help of a friend who is legal, he is going
to buy a car. His friend will get the plates and insurance, and Carlos will pay
for it.

"I'm scared," he said, "but I'm going to do it."

bahrampourt@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. deportations reach record high

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 717 words


The Obama administration announced Wednesday that in the past year it has
deported a record number of unauthorized immigrants - more than 392,000, about
half of whom were convicted criminals.

Officials with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said removals during the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 included more than 1,000 murderers, nearly 6,000
sex offenders, 45,000 drug offenders and 28,000 drunk drivers. The number fell
short of the agency expectation of 400,000 deportations but still surpassed the
2009 total of 389,834, the previous record, according to the Associated Press.

The percentage targeting criminals rose sharply - up from 35 percent in the
previous fiscal year - in keeping with a new emphasis at the Department of
Homeland Security to use immigration enforcement as a crime-fighting tool.

"It has been another record-breaking year at ICE - one that has seen ICE enforce
the law at record levels, and in sensible, firm and thoughtful ways," said
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano.

Officials said that they had also stepped up audits of employers suspected of
using unauthorized immigrants as workers, part of a strategy to undercut the
magnet of jobs that draws many migrants. Officials said that 180 owners,
employers or managers had been criminally charged and $50 million had been
levied in fines.

The announcement comes less than a month before November's midterm elections, in
which Democrats are fighting to retain control of Congress. Obama administration
officials, always wary of criticism that they are insufficiently committed to
immigration enforcement, pointed out that the actions against employers and the
number of deportations were higher than during the Bush administration.

The new enforcement measures appear to be correlated with declines in illegal
border crossings but also with record numbers of deaths among migrants entering
the country by crossing the Arizona desert. More than 250 deaths have been
recorded in the past year, and advocates believe that tougher border enforcement
has caused migrants to venture farther out into the desert to reach the United
States.

Napolitano credited programs known as 287G and Secure Communities, both of which
leverage the reach of local law enforcement officials, for the stepped-up
deportations. She said that crime along the border was either stable or falling,
and that "some of America's safest cities are right along the southwest border."

But some ICE critics say the effort to target criminals for deportation, which
often involves assistance from state and local law enforcement officials, has
swept up unauthorized immigrants who had committed minor offenses - or no
offenses at all.

Immigration rights activists say that the Secure Communities program, which
sends fingerprints of suspects booked by police to be checked against an ICE
database of unauthorized immigrants, has lent itself to racial profiling because
police could pick up people of color on flimsy charges - knowing that even if
the charges were dropped, the fingerprinting system would detect whether the
suspects were in the country illegally, and thus trigger a detention request
from ICE.

In addition, while several counties across the country, including the District
and Arlington, had sought to opt out of the Secure Communities program,
Napolitano confirmed a report in The Washington Post last week that cited an
anonymous, high-ranking ICE official who said that local jurisdictions did not
really have the ability to opt out of the program: "We do not see this as an
opt-in, opt-out program," Napolitano said.

Immigrants who overstay their visas or enter the country without authorization
are not considered criminals; unauthorized immigration is an administrative
violation. The Obama administration has sought to distinguish such immigrants
from those who have committed crimes.

"We know that at the end of the day, to fully address all our nation's
immigration challenges, Congress must make changes to the underlying laws
themselves ," Napolitano said.

A path to citizenship should be found for many of the country's estimated 11
million unauthorized immigrants, she said, but "they must get right with the
law" by paying fines, committing to learn English and submitting to criminal
background checks.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 28, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Lawmaker calls for probe of Montgomery College tuition

BYLINE: Daniel de Vise

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 428 words


A Republican Maryland lawmaker urged a criminal investigation of Montgomery
College on Wednesday, challenging the school's longtime practice of giving
resident tuition discounts to illegal immigrants.

Montgomery College allows illegal immigrants to pay the lower tuition afforded
to county residents as long as they have graduated from the county's public
schools. It's an unusual stance: Some public colleges in the region don't admit
illegal immigrants as students, and those that do typically charge them higher
non-resident rates because they cannot prove legal residency.

Del. Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County) called Wednesday for state and
federal prosecutors to investigate the community college's tuition policy, which
he said he believes violates federal law.

"You have public officials in collusion, practicing an illegal act that costs
taxpayers money," McDonough said in an interview Tuesday. He aired his concerns
publicly at a news conference Wednesday.

With an election looming, candidates are accentuating their philosophical
differences on illegal immigration. Gubernatorial candidate Robert L. Ehrlich
Jr. (R) invoked the issue Tuesday in a campaign appearance, saying it was
becoming "more of a hot button" between him and Gov. Martin O'Malley (D).

Montgomery College officials said they believe their longtime fee policy follows
the law. The rule  provides in-county tuition to anyone who has graduated from a
public Montgomery County high school within the past three years.  Tuition
totals $321 for a three-credit course for a county resident, compared with $657
for Marylanders from outside the county and $897 for everyone else.

McDonough "obviously does not understand the admission policies and student
enrollment of Montgomery College," Elizabeth Homan, a spokeswoman for the
college, said in a statement.

McDonough said an audit showed Montgomery College delivered 11,000 credit hours
of instruction to students without full documentation.

How to treat illegal immigrants in the region's public colleges is an unsettled
question.

Public universities in Maryland and Virginia are allowed by state policy to
admit illegal immigrants, but they are not required to do so. Some institutions,
including the University of Virginia, have gone to court to protect their rights
to deny admission to illegal immigrants.

Maryland lawmakers have tried and failed repeatedly to secure resident tuition
benefits for illegal immigrants. Virginia legislators have tried and failed to
bar illegal immigrants from public higher education.

devised@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 29, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Latinos increasingly say they detect bias

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 582 words


Nearly two-thirds of Latinos in the United States think they are being
discriminated against, and a plurality view the backlash over illegal
immigration as the central driver of such bias, according to a poll by the Pew
Hispanic Center.

The poll also found that 70 percent of foreign-born Latinos think they are being
held back by discrimination, and half of all Latinos think the United States has
become less welcoming toward immigrants than it was just five years ago.

"More Latinos are seeing discrimination against Hispanics as a major problem,"
said Mark Hugo Lopez, associate director of the center, which released the
findings Thursday.

The results of the survey - which was conducted in English and Spanish among
1,375 native- and foreign-born Latinos from Aug. 17 through Sept. 19 - come just
days before midterm elections in which Latinos are expected to play an important
role, particularly in the Florida gubernatorial and Senate races, and the Nevada
Senate contest between Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D) and tea party favorite
Sharron Angle.

Angle has come under fire for running ads in recent weeks that paint Latinos as
menacing interlopers. Angle has denied that her campaign plays on nativist
sentiment.

More than half of all Latinos told Pew pollsters they are worried that family
members, close friends or they themselves could be deported - a measure of how
deeply the issue of illegal immigration cuts across the 47 million-member U.S.
Latino community.

Significantly more Latinos than in past surveys say that illegal immigrants are
having a negative effect on Latinos, a measure of how the issue is
simultaneously stirring and dividing the community.

Lopez said the survey did not ask whether Latinos thought that illegal
immigrants were hurting the community by competing for jobs during a recession,
or because the backlash against illegal Latino immigrants was affecting the
wider community. Even so, more than three-quarters of Latinos think that
immigration generally strengthens the United States, and Latinos appear to be
more optimistic about the direction of the economy than the rest of the
population.

Most Latinos - 86 percent - say that illegal immigrants should be offered a path
to citizenship once they pass background checks, pay a fine and show proof of
employment. Only 13 percent of Latinos think illegal immigrants should be
deported.

The survey had some good news for Democrats: About 51 percent of Latinos favor
Democratic policies on immigration, while 19 percent favor Republican policies.
But previous surveys have also suggested that Latino enthusiasm and turnout in
the midterms will be low. Participation in the election has been dampened by the
absence of immigration reform and also because Latino turnout typically tends to
fall during the midterms.

"We fully expect there will be surprises this fall and those surprises will
clearly demonstrate the electoral power of our community," said Rudy Lopez,
national field and political director at the advocacy group Center for Community
Change, during a recent media briefing about Latino voters.

About four-fifths of Latinos disapprove of Arizona's immigration law and efforts
to deny citizenship to the U.S.-born children of undocumented immigrants.

Although immigration generates strong views, Latinos do not think it is the most
pressing issue facing the nation. Along with many other voters, Latinos rank
education, jobs and health care above immigration as pressing concerns.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Records sought in probe of nun's death

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: Pg. T01

LENGTH: 399 words


The Prince William Board of County Supervisors has sent a Freedom of Information
Act request to federal officials for information related to the investigation
into Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, an illegal immigrant charged with killing a
nun and injuring two others in a drunken-driving accident.

The board requested copies Monday of all reports the Department of Homeland
Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement have relating to their
investigation into why Martinelly-Montano remained in the United States despite
having two previous drunken-driving convictions.

"We believe we have a right to the information and need it,"  said board
Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large). "The county has taken great pains, and
at great expense, to identify illegal immigrants and hand them over to ICE. We
find out then they released Montano even though they knew he was an illegal
immigrant. . . . And they released him without informing the Prince William
community or Prince William police."

Martinelly-Montano, 23, who entered the United States from Bolivia illegally at
age 8, was allegedly driving drunk Aug. 1 in Bristow when his vehicle crashed
into a car carrying three nuns. Sister Denise Mosier, 66, who was heading to a
retreat at the Benedictine Sisters monastery, was killed.

Prince William officials are also requesting copies of all correspondence and
reports concerning any department or division contacts with Martinelly-Montano.
The request states that the local government has an "important interest" and
concern in informing its citizens about the matter.

Stewart said federal officials have about a month to produce the requested
documents. If not, he said, he would want to take the next step, which is to get
a congressional subpoena. U.S. Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) has also requested the
information.

Martinelly-Montano was indicted in September by a Prince William County grand
jury on charges of felony murder, driving on a suspended license and maiming
resulting from driving while intoxicated.

A senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said earlier this
year that the results of an investigation by Homeland Security into why
Martinelly-Montano went almost two years without a deportation hearing would not
be released. The official had said the department does not want to make it
public because of "law enforcement sensitivities."

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Prince William, three years later

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 517 words


AFTER 31/2  YEARS and some $3 million in public spending, Prince William
County's  crusade against illegal immigrants  - launched almost single-handedly
by an ambitious local politician who has made nativism his stock in trade - has
confirmed the county's reputation as a national symbol of intolerance. Now, a
study by scholars at the University of Virginia  has exposed just what was
achieved, and wasn't, when Virginia's second-largest locality undertook its
campaign against undocumented workers.

Prince William citizens had been much less concerned with illegal immigration
than with traffic and development, but in 2007 Board of Supervisors Chairman
Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large)  put the issue center stage and pushed through a
policy that turned out to be a precursor to the one adopted this year in
Arizona. Implemented in 2008, it authorized police to check the immigration
status of anyone they detained who they suspected might be in the country
illegally. After a public uproar, the county watered down the policy -
immigration checks are now done only after arrest, and for everyone taken into
custody - but the damage to the county's name was done.

The study, paid for by the county, concludes that the crackdown did succeed in
driving away - though in many cases probably not very far away - a few thousand
illegal immigrants, along with some legal ones. That's unsurprising given that
illegal immigrants were the targets of such overheated debate.

But the price of that "success" was to cement Prince William's image of
hostility toward immigrants, specifically Hispanic ones. While the (largely
legal) Hispanic population continued to boom in most area jurisdictions, it
stagnated in Prince William after 2007.

Politicians promised that the county's enforcement efforts would save money by
slashing public programs benefiting undocumented immigrants. It did no such
thing, since illegal immigrants aren't eligible for most such programs.  They
suggested it would do away with loitering by migrant workers seeking day jobs.
In fact, day-worker sites continue to operate today much as they did before.

Politicians also said the campaign would decrease crime overall. But, the report
concludes, illegal immigrants constituted a small portion of those arrested, and
the crackdown had little effect on most kinds of crime - though it may have
contributed somewhat to reductions in aggravated assault and hit-and-run
accidents.

The report also blames the crusade for stoking tensions between Prince William
police officers and Hispanics, who make up 20 percent of the county's residents.
Relations have now improved, but only thanks to an intensive and sustained
repair job by the county's well-regarded police department and an enlightened
police chief.

Mr. Stewart is now urging other Virginia localities to follow Prince William's
lead. He misleadingly portrays the U-Va. report as vindication of the county's
crackdown, which it clearly is not. In fact, it is a cautionary tale, and other
local officials in the state would be wise to read the report before they
embrace the Prince William model.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

What George Will got wrong about citizenship

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 300 words


George Will argued that Congress can deny birthright citizenship to the children
of unauthorized immigrant parents ["A citizenship birthright? Maybe not," op-ed,
March 28]. Yet the 14th Amendment's plain language, legislative history and
judicial precedence undermine this claim. The amendment overturned the Dred
Scott decision, restoring citizenship to "all persons" born or naturalized in
the United States and subject to its jurisdiction.

Children with unauthorized immigrant parents are "persons" under the amendment
and subject to U.S. jurisdiction, meaning subject to the nation's authority and
required to obey its laws. Unlike diplomats, unauthorized immigrants do not
enjoy immunity from U.S. laws. They would not be unauthorized if they did. The
congressional debate over the amendment included a dispute about whether
citizenship should be extended to the children of foreigners but assumed that
the amendment would do so. In 1898, the Supreme Court in United States v. Wong
Kim Ark affirmed that the 14th Amendment applied to the children of immigrant
parents. In its 1982 decision in Plyler v. Doe, the court held that states
cannot deny public education to unauthorized immigrant children, finding that
the 14th Amendment's Equal Protection Clause covered "any person" within a
state's "jurisdiction" and thus applied to these children.

Mr. Will's proposal would require a constitutional amendment. It also raises
significant public policy concerns. The creation of a hereditary underclass of
denizens -- without rights, prospects or status -- would not serve the rule of
law or the good of the nation. Nobody likes illegal immigration, but children
born in the United States belong here.

Donald Kerwin, Alexandria

The writer is vice president for programs at the Migration Policy Institute.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Loudoun, others begin jail immigration checks;
ICE program aims to deport serious offenders

BYLINE: Josh White

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ01

LENGTH: 543 words


Eight law enforcement agencies in Virginia and Maryland have recently joined a
sweeping federal program that aims to identify and deport illegal immigrants who
commit serious crimes.

The agencies join about 150 other jurisdictions in 19 states as part of a
program the Obama administration hopes will be in all 3,100 local jails
nationwide by 2013.

The Secure Communities program, part of a U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement effort to streamline how it identifies and removes criminal illegal
immigrants, allows local law enforcement officers to check fingerprints against
the FBI criminal database and the Department of Homeland Security's biometric
database. Officials hope that the system will more efficiently prevent serious
criminals from being released back onto the streets.

Arlington, Fauquier, Loudoun and Stafford counties, along with the City of
Alexandria, are the most recent additions to the program, ICE officials
announced Tuesday. They join Prince William and Fairfax counties in Virginia. A
week earlier, officials announced that Frederick, St. Mary's and Queen Anne's
counties in Maryland had joined the effort, which was underway in Prince
George's County. ICE officials said this week that they are working with the
District to deploy the program as well.

"Secure Communities is a great tool in helping us to enforce the law and send a
message that there is a cost to coming into the country illegally," Neil H.
MacBride, the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, said in a
statement. "In most cases, we are targeting those with a criminal background. We
are taking them off the streets and out of our communities, and we are
potentially deterring them from returning to the United States and committing
further crimes."

The new process automatically alerts federal officials when illegal immigrants
are arrested and their fingerprints are compared to those in the databases,
allowing the Department of Homeland Security to review the case and determine
whether deportation is a priority. The Obama administration has said it wants to
focus on illegal immigrants who commit serious or violent crimes.

Although advocates for immigrants fear the program could lead police to
preemptively arrest people to check their immigration status, federal
authorities say Secure Communities targets illegal immigrants who commit crimes
and would have been arrested for them in any case. Fairfax Sheriff Stan G. Barry
(D), who administered a year-long pilot of the program, praised its ability to
help identify threats to the community and have them removed.

Likewise, Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (I) believes the program
will help his county.

"Secure Communities will only improve our local efforts in removing criminal
aliens from the country who are involved in gang activity and other serious
crimes in our community," Simpson said in a news release.

According to ICE, since the program was implemented in October 2008, more than
18,800 illegal immigrants charged with crimes such as murder, rape and
kidnapping have been identified. More than 4,000 of those people have been
removed from the country.

ICE officials hope to continue to expand the program's reach and expect it to be
a nationwide resource by the end of 2013.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Eight area jurisdictions join in immigration checks;
ICE program aims to deport jail inmates

BYLINE: Josh White

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PG28

LENGTH: 543 words


Eight law enforcement agencies in Virginia and Maryland have recently joined a
sweeping federal program that aims to identify and deport illegal immigrants who
commit serious crimes.

The agencies join about 150 other jurisdictions in 19 states as part of a
program the Obama administration hopes will be in all 3,100 local jails
nationwide by 2013.

The Secure Communities program, part of a U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement effort to streamline how it identifies and removes criminal illegal
immigrants, allows local law enforcement officers to check fingerprints against
the FBI criminal database and the Department of Homeland Security's biometric
database. Officials hope that the system will more efficiently prevent serious
criminals from being released back onto the streets.

Arlington, Fauquier, Loudoun and Stafford counties, along with the City of
Alexandria, are the most recent additions to the program, ICE officials
announced last week. They join Prince William and Fairfax counties in Virginia.
A week earlier, officials announced that Frederick, St. Mary's and Queen Anne's
counties in Maryland had joined the effort, which was underway in Prince
George's County. ICE officials said this week that they are working with the
District to deploy the program as well.

"Secure Communities is a great tool in helping us to enforce the law and send a
message that there is a cost to coming into the country illegally," Neil H.
MacBride, the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, said in a
statement. "In most cases, we are targeting those with a criminal background. We
are taking them off the streets and out of our communities, and we are
potentially deterring them from returning to the United States and committing
further crimes."

The new process automatically alerts federal officials when illegal immigrants
are arrested and their fingerprints are compared to those in the databases,
allowing the Department of Homeland Security to review the case and determine
whether deportation is a priority. The Obama administration has said it wants to
focus on illegal immigrants who commit serious or violent crimes.

Although advocates for immigrants fear the program could lead police to
preemptively arrest people to check their immigration status, federal
authorities say Secure Communities targets illegal immigrants who commit crimes
and would have been arrested for them in any case. Fairfax Sheriff Stan G. Barry
(D), who administered a year-long pilot of the program, praised its ability to
help identify threats to the community and have them removed.

Likewise, Loudoun County Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson (I) believes the program
will help his county.

"Secure Communities will only improve our local efforts in removing criminal
aliens from the country who are involved in gang activity and other serious
crimes in our community," Simpson said in a news release.

According to ICE, since the program was implemented in October 2008, more than
18,800 illegal immigrants charged with crimes such as murder, rape and
kidnapping have been identified. More than 4,000 of those people have been
removed from the country.

ICE officials hope to continue to expand the program's reach and expect it to be
a nationwide resource by the end of 2013.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's folly;
A law that twists the Constitution in pursuit of illegal immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 541 words


HOW MUCH FURTHER can Arizona go in its never-ending quest to harass undocumented
immigrants, on whom the state relied in happier times to sustain a construction
and hospitality boom -- in other words, to build much of Phoenix? The new
statute it just passed, which will turn immigrants who came here illegally into
quarry for law enforcement agencies statewide, is a bad law in a number of
respects, including the following:

-- It invites racial profiling. The law compels police to search for
undocumented immigrants based on an ill-defined "reasonable suspicion" of
illegality. The real-world effect of this language will be to force local police
to use skin color, accent or limited proficiency in English as the basis for
suspicion, much as sheriff's deputies in Maricopa County (Phoenix) already have
been widely and credibly accused of doing in hundreds of lawsuits.

Nearly a third of Arizonans are Hispanic -- that's why the state has bilingual
ballots -- and many of those who are legal residents and U.S. citizens look and
speak like undocumented immigrants, to whom they are often married or related.
Since police lack any sure-fire method of spotting illegal immigrants based on
"reasonable suspicion," Arizona police inevitably will target the legal sort as
well, in blatant violation of their civil liberties.

-- It ties the hands of law enforcement. Since the law allows any citizen to sue
local police for failing to enforce immigration law, police will be distracted
and diverted from other priorities. Some police chiefs are wondering whether
they will be sued for failing to prioritize illegal immigration if, for
instance, they assign a team to crack down on drunk drivers. Their fear is
compounded by the threat of fines of up to $5,000 per day for police agencies
that fail to enforce the law. Little wonder the bill was opposed by the state's
Association of Chiefs of Police.

-- It poisons police relations with immigrant communities. By fomenting the
justified fear among immigrants that any contact with law enforcement agencies
will lead to questions about their status, the law makes it increasingly
unlikely that immigrants will report crimes, cooperate as witnesses or provide
tips to police.

-- It preempts federal law. Federal law treats illegal immigration as a civil
violation; Arizona law criminalizes it by using the legally dubious mechanism of
equating the mere presence of undocumented immigrants with trespassing. The
Arizona law does not merely mirror federal law, as its defenders insist; it
broadens and usurps it. Whether that stands the test of constitutionality is
likely to be decided in the courts.

In the meantime, the estimated 460,000 undocumented immigrants in Arizona, and
the state's dyspeptic dealings with them, stand as testaments to Washington's
failure to enact effective immigration reform. Fearful of talk-radio xenophobes
and primary challenges, lawmakers in Congress have abdicated their
responsibility to fashion legislation that would address reasonable concerns
about porous borders, scofflaw employers and the demand for a steady supply of
unskilled labor from south of the border. Until Congress acts, other states and
localities will be tempted to imitate Arizona's folly, or worse.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

The real immigration scare tactics

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 783 words


"Physician, heal yourself," said the founder of the church in which Roger Mahony
is a cardinal. He is the Catholic archbishop of Los Angeles, and he should heed
the founder's admonition before accusing Arizonans of intemperateness. He says
that Arizona's new law pertaining to illegal immigration involves "reverting to
German Nazi and Russian Communist techniques whereby people are required to turn
one another in to the authorities on any suspicion of documentation."

"Our highest priority today," he says, "is to bring calm and reasoning to
discussions about our immigrant brothers and sisters." His idea of calm
reasoning is to call Arizona's law for coping with illegal immigration "the
country's most retrogressive, mean-spirited, and useless anti-immigrant law." He
also says that it is "dreadful," "abhorrent" and a "tragedy" and that its
assumption is that "immigrants come to our country to rob, plunder and consume
public resources."

The problem of illegal immigration is inflaming Mahony, who strongly implies, as
advocates for illegal immigrants often do, that any law intended to reduce such
illegality is "anti-immigrant." The implication is: Because most Americans
believe such illegality should be reduced, most Americans are against
immigrants. This slur is slain by abundant facts -- polling data that show
Americans simultaneously committed to controlling the nation's southern border
and to welcoming legal immigration.

Paul, in his first letter to the Corinthians, said, "And now abideth faith, hope
and charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." Mahony
uncharitably judges Arizona legislators and the constituents they represent to
be "mean-spirited." His evident assumption, one quite common today, is that
certain ideas cannot be held by any intelligent person of goodwill.

But what does -- what can -- Mahony mean by asserting that Arizona's law is
"useless"? He must believe either it will have no effect on illegal immigration
or that any effect must be without social value. He can know neither to be true.

Late-night comedians, recalling World War II movies in which Gestapo officers
demand "show me your papers," find echoes of fascism in Arizona's belief that
there are occasions when police officers can reasonably ask for someone's
documentation. On Tuesday, Barack Obama, showing contempt for the
professionalism and character of police officers, said: "Now suddenly if you
don't have your papers and you took your kid out to get ice cream, you're going
to be harassed."

Time was, presidents were held to higher standards than comedians. Today's
liberals favor indignation over information, but lawyer Obama must know that
since 1952 federal law has said: "Every alien, eighteen years of age and over,
shall at all times carry with him and have in his personal possession any
certificate of alien registration or alien registration receipt card issued to
him."

In today's debate, the threshold question is: Should the nation have immigration
laws? Until 1875, there were none. There are strict libertarians who believe
there should be none. But the vast majority who do not favor completely open
borders believe that there should be some laws restricting who can become
residents, and presumably they believe that such laws should be enforced.

Once Americans are satisfied that the borders are secure, the immigration
policies they will favor will reflect their -- and the law enforcement
profession's -- healthy aversion to the measures that would be necessary to
remove from the nation the nearly 11 million illegal immigrants, 60 percent of
whom have been here for more than five years. It would take 200,000 buses in a
bumper-to-bumper convoy 1,700 miles long to carry them back to the border.
Americans are not going to seek and would not tolerate the police methods that
would be needed to round up and deport the equivalent of the population of Ohio.

Meanwhile, hysteria about domestic fascism is unhelpful, even though it is a
liberal tradition. In his 1944 State of the Union address, FDR identified
opponents of his domestic agenda as fascists. Declaring that his "one supreme
objective" was "security," including "economic security, social security, moral
security," he issued a dire warning: Woodrow Wilson's progressive policies had
been frustrated by "rightist reaction," and "if history were to repeat itself
and we were to return to the so-called 'normalcy' of the 1920s -- then it is
certain that even though we shall have conquered our enemies on the battlefields
abroad, we shall have yielded to the spirit of Fascism here at home."

Today's hysterics are unoriginal. But they learned their bad manners from a
master.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Justin Sullivan/getty Images; Protesters against the new
Arizona law line up in Oakland, Calif., on April 30.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Coalition presses for national boycott of Arizona;
Labor, civil rights groups urge baseball to move the 2011 All-Star Game

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 434 words


A coalition of civil rights and labor groups said Thursday that it has organized
a national boycott of Arizona in the wake of the state's new law targeting
illegal immigrants.

The National Council of La Raza, along with 19 other labor and civil rights
groups, will pull money and meetings out of the state and is asking all
companies and organizations to move major events and conferences planned there
to other venues.

"No conferences. No travel," said Janet MurguÃ­a, president of the NCLR, the
nation's largest Hispanic civil rights group. "We are looking at major events
with big visibility, and we're asking all people to consider whether any
purchase of goods from the state would further this unjust law."

The law at the center of the debate, S.B. 1070, gives Arizona's police broad
power to stop people on suspicion of being in the state illegally. It has also
become the newest rallying cry for supporters of a plan to overhaul the
immigration system and provide a way for the bulk of the nation's 12 million
illegal immigrants to gain legal status.

Supporters of the NCLR have agreed to pull the Puerto Rican Day festival's
regional meeting out of Phoenix, and the National Urban League struck the city
from a short-list of places to host its 2012 conference. The groups said their
ultimate target is Washington, where they hope to turn President Obama's promise
to "begin work this year" on immigration policy into action.

At a news conference, MurguÃ­a specifically called on Major League Baseball to
renege on its promise to hold the 2011 All-Star Game in Phoenix. League
officials would not comment, but Gov. Jan Brewer (R) pushed back in an editorial
on ESPN.com.

"Boycotts are just more politics and manipulation by out-of-state interests,"
Brewer said. "As a border state, Arizona has already paid a heavy price for the
federal government's failure -- hundreds of millions, if not billions, of
dollars in unreimbursed costs -- and its citizens should not be punished
further."

According to a tally by the state's hotel and lodging association, 23 meetings
scheduled there have been
canceledhttp://mlbplayers.mlb.com/pa/pdf/20100430_weiner_statement_on_arizona_im
migration_law.pdf. About 30 percent of the league's players are Latino, and
civil rights groups are hoping they will help to pressure baseball owners to
punish Arizona.

The sting of the last major boycott against Arizona is still fresh: In the early
1990s, the NFL Players Association persuaded the league's owners to pull the
1993 Super Bowl from the state when it failed to approve a holiday in honor of
the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Paul Beaty / Associated Press; Janet MurguÃ­a, president of the
National Council of La Raza.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Suns speak out instead of playing it safe

BYLINE: Michael Wilbon

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


It's not a small number of people who want Steve Nash, Grant Hill and the
Phoenix Suns to shut up and confine themselves to basketball. Don't think, don't
engage, and certainly don't publicly oppose Arizona's new immigration law.

Instead of embracing a convenient neutrality that might have helped the bottom
line with a great many locals who favor a new law that requires local police to
check the legal status of suspected undocumented immigrants, Suns owner Robert
Sarver called the law "flawed" and "mean-spirited" and asked his players what
they thought of wearing "Los Suns" jerseys during Wednesday night's playoff
game. Depending on your point of view, it was either an act of support for the
Latin community, whose members feel targeted by the law, or an act of defiance
toward those in the larger community who are angry over illegal immigration in a
border state and rail at any dissent.

The folks here who wanted, at worst, silence picked the wrong team. The Suns'
locker room has too many independent thinkers, too many activists, too many
players whose experiences and sensibilities are, thankfully, a lot broader than
most of their neighbors. Sarver's players not only had no problem wearing "Los
Suns" jerseys, they felt, to a man, pretty much the same way he did, damn the
backlash, and were quite willing to say it. And there was plenty of backlash.
Suns Coach Alvin Gentry, an hour before Game 2 against the Spurs tipped off,
pointed to his computer, referring to the angry e-mails from folks who wanted
the players in lockstep with the state's misguided new law.

A great many of the critics simply don't want politics to touch sports, as if
that's a practical position to take in today's world, where players are asked
(and expected) to comment on virtually everything of cultural importance. It's
amazing that people would think after six years of exposure to Nash, soft-spoken
but certainly outspoken, that he would just smile and nod in agreement with a
law that goes against everything he stands for . . . as if Nash was going to
issue some lame neutral statement through a spokesman.

Nash, during a conversation with Tony Kornheiser and me on ESPN's "Pardon the
Interruption," said, of the law: "I'm against it. I think that this is a bill
that really damages our civil liberties. I think it opens up the potential for
racial profiling . . . racism. I think it's a bad precedent to set for our young
people. I think it represents our state poorly in the eyes of the nation and the
world. I think that we have a lot of great attributes here and [this law] is
something that we could do without. And I hope it will change in the coming
weeks. . . . Our owners asked us if any of us had a problem wearing the [Los
Suns] jerseys and nobody did. So, I think we're pretty like-minded on the issue.
This league is very multicultural. We have players from all over the world,
myself obviously being a foreigner [Canadian], many of my teammates, players on
other teams. Our communities are very multicultural. So I think we need to find
a different way to combat the issues that we face in our society. And I think
this is the wrong way to go about it."

Nash stressed that he was speaking only for himself, but he was indeed speaking
quite eloquently for most of us who feel the way he does, that the volume needs
to be turned up when it comes to fighting racial profiling, not adopt as a
matter of policy. Nash, again, is on the right side of a monumental issue, one
of great interest nationally but an obsession here in Arizona. And while it came
as zero surprise that Nash would speak out, it did come as a surprise to many
that Sarver would take the stand he did.

"I applaud Robert," Grant Hill said after the game, which was still just a game
-- despite the angst of those who don't want politics and sport to mix -- and a
well-played one at that. "Most owners, regardless of the sport, wouldn't put
themselves in a position to be criticized for expressing what they believe. I'm
really proud of him. Most owners vote their pocketbooks, and Robert could have
done that. He took the initiative. To me, it's a greater injustice to not speak
up, regardless that some people are going to be angry because they think we
should just play ball. One, this is an incredibly important issue. Two, it's the
right thing to do."

That was the sentiment throughout the Suns' locker room, pretty much: They were
thrilled their owner took the lead in opposing something they all opposed and
they could take the heat. Who knows at this point whether it will cost Sarver
money. Nash and Hill had received communication from some longtime Suns fans to
the effect that they would no longer root for the team. But it's difficult to
see folks, no matter how angry in the moment, canceling the most prized
sports/entertainment ticket in town the last 40-plus years because grown people
with their own ideas dare to disagree.

It's not like Sarver said he wanted open borders. In fact, what he said was,
"However intended, the result of passing this law is that our basic principles
of equal rights and protection under the law are being called into question, and
Arizona's already struggling economy will suffer even further setbacks at a time
when the state can ill-afford them."

That also leads into the discussion about what Major League Baseball will do
about the 2011 All-Star Game, given that nearly one-third of its players are of
Latin heritage, and several have already ripped Arizona's new law. At some
point, though he's got some time, Commissioner Bud Selig is going to have to
take the temperature of the players and executives in his league and figure out
who he's going to offend, the state of Arizona if MLB moves the game, or his
Hispanic players if MLB keeps the game here.

And it's not as if the big leagues are grappling with the question of "what to
do" alone. Various organizations are suggesting or flat-out lobbying for removal
of certain scheduled events from Arizona as a form of protest. The people who
think sports and athletes are going to be exempt from this conversation,
particularly as it becomes more impassioned and more polarizing, are unthinkably
naive.

Usually when sports and politics mix, some government is telling athletes they
must boycott or somehow represent the nation for which they play. This time,
athletes and, in the case of the Suns, a team are proactively engaged. And
they're as entitled as the people defending the law to express their opinion. In
fact, for some of us, it's downright encouraging.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Rick Scuteri/reuters; Phoenix point guard Steve Nash says the
new law "represents our state poorly in the eyes of the nation and the world."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Election shows Herndon still divided over illegal immigration

BYLINE: Derek Kravitz

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 958 words


Tiny Herndon in Fairfax County, with its Victorian homes, McMansion developments
and well-groomed town center, holds the distinction of being one of the first
places in the country swept into the national debate over immigration policy.

In the summer of 2005, the council, controlled by Democrats, created a job
center for day laborers in an effort to move the rising number of illegal
immigrants -- and crime -- away from downtown stores and street corners. Angry
reaction was swift. Some residents wanted to bar public money from being spent
on the facility while others wanted it moved to an industrial site. Judicial
Watch, a conservative legal group, filed a lawsuit. Representatives of the
Arizona-based Minutemen showed up at the local 7-Eleven to protest. Conservative
talk radio was enflamed.

The pro-center mayor and two council members were ousted the following May,
replaced by a six-person board and mayor that opposed using taxpayer money for
the center, which was eventually closed. Subsequently, anti-illegal immigration
measures received near-unanimous approval, including efforts to crack down on
loitering and alcohol-related crimes in predominantly Hispanic neighborhoods.

But this past week, Herndon voters sent a mixed message. Two council members who
opposed the day-laborer site were unseated, two others held onto their posts and
two Hispanic candidates -- seeking to become the town's first Latino
representatives -- failed in their bids.

A town in transition

Candidates and political observers say the results show the town's mixed
feelings on a variety of issues. Herndon, which still holds annual reenactments
of the 1863 Confederate raid on its train station, is in the midst of a
substantial transformation, expedited by a planned Metrorail station and
mixed-use developments for Route 28. But Tuesday's results also reflect
continuing division among residents about the community's growing Hispanic
population, which has reached nearly 30 percent, according to Census estimates.

Four candidates supported by Alliance for Herndon's Future, a Democratic-leaning
group that worked to remove those who voted against the day-laborer site, won
seats on the council: Lisa C. Merkel, Sheila Olem, Jasbinder Singh and Grace H.
Wolf. Singh is an immigrant who made the issue a theme in his campaign; Wolf is
the daughter of immigrants. All three female candidates campaigned on platforms
that focused primarily on land-use planning and creating a friendly climate for
small businesses. But a poll conducted by the Herndon Observer of likely voters
indicated that the chief election issue was how to handle the illegal immigrant
population.

The 7-Eleven on Elden Street still attracts dozens of Spanish-speaking men each
weekday seeking jobs, often in construction, at $7 to $8 an hour, and now a
police presence as authorities take down license plate numbers of cars that pick
up groups of workers. And Town Hall regularly gets complaints about too many
people under one roof, too many parked cars and too much noise and trash --
problems that many of those complaining associate with illegal immigrants.

"Immigration is never off the table in Herndon," said Wolf, a small business
owner whose parents emigrated from South Korea in the 1970s. "When Arizona
happened, I was thinking to myself, 'Thank God this took us off the hot spot,'"
referring to a controversial new Arizona law that makes it easier for police to
stop and detain suspected illegal immigrants.

Overcrowding at issue

Wolf and other new council members say their wins might not reflect the
diversity of the community but rather growing concern over the outgoing
council's emphasis placed on immigration-related issues, such as overcrowding
and the town's partnership program with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Council member Dennis D. Husch, one of the most ardent opponents of the
day-laborer center and author of legislation that aimed to crack down on illegal
immigration, decided not to seek reelection. Fellow anti-day laborer council
members David A. Kirby and Charlie D. Waddell narrowly lost on Tuesday.

Waddell's loss was especially noticeable, given that he had championed the
council's policies of reducing the number of houses with overcrowding complaints
and the town's partnership with federal authorities in detaining 225 suspects
arrested for other crimes on illegal immigration violations. Waddell calls them
"bad guys."

"Overcrowding continues to resonate with folks," Waddell said. "I've had people
who point to their cul-de-sacs and said, 'That home once had six, seven people.
Now it's a single-family home."

Waddell lost by only 14 votes and incumbents Connie Haines Hutchinson and
William B. Tirrell Sr. were reelected. Hutchinson, who has deep ties to Herndon
and whose family name is on Hutchinson Elementary, won by a large margin.
Hutchinson and Tirrell were elected in 2006 and opposed the day-laborer center.

And then there are Daniel E. Alvarado and Cesar A. del Aguila, Hispanics who ran
very different campaigns with the same losing result.

Del Aguila, a sales engineer with a Web start-up, ran a well-coordinated
campaign. His kitchen became a makeshift headquarters for four candidates. Of
those four, del Aguila was the only one who missed the cut.

"For me, it was probably more about my ties to the community than my name," del
Aguila said. "But I did spend a lot of time making myself a three-dimensional
candidate."

Alvarado, a Peruvian-born freelance writer and head of two Hispanic
organizations, focused on angst in the Hispanic community, fashioning himself as
the face of the "new Herndon."

"The new Herndon might not be in yet but there's definitely a newer Herndon
taking shape," he said.

The new council will be sworn in June 30.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

When immigration becomes a family affair;
Md. girl's comments to Michelle Obama about mom's 'papers' revive debate about
relatives with mixed statuses

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 683 words


Even as immigration authorities promised they would not try to deport the mother
of a Silver Spring second-grader, the girl's conversation with Michelle Obama
reverberated through the family's community and the country Thursday, reviving a
debate about mixed-status families.

As of 2008, 4 million U.S.-born Hispanic children had at least one parent who
was an illegal immigrant, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. The number is
growing, with 300,000 to 400,000 children born to illegal immigrants each year,
said Jeffrey S. Passel, a senior demographer at the center, who said that
families are often neglected in the immigration debate.

Almost half of the households of undocumented immigrants include couples with
children, a much larger percentage than households of those born in the United
States.

At her school Wednesday, the second-grader told the first lady, "My mom doesn't
have any papers," and she asked why the president was "taking away everybody
that doesn't have papers."

The remarks, broadcast on TV and the Internet, drew empathy from the girl's
community, where people picking up students Thursday at New Hampshire Estates
Elementary School said she gave voice to familiar anxieties.

"The children have seen with their own eyes the deportation of parents," said
Julia Aparicia, a native of El Salvador, who said she is a legal resident. She
was picking up a 4-year-old girl she cares for. "That's the fear of the
children. It's the fear of all of us."

New Hampshire Estates has a diverse population of 410 students from
prekindergarten and Head Start through second grade. Two-thirds of the students
are Hispanic, and about two-thirds of all students are learning English as a
second language. Eighty-one percent of all students qualify for free or
reduced-price lunch.

The girl's remarks provided fodder for both sides of the immigration reform
debate.

"I think it helps us immensely," said U.S. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who
has pushed for more protections for families of mixed status. "It really
synthesizes in 20 words or less the need for comprehensive immigration reform."

Gutierrez, who has called for a path to legalization for undocumented
immigrants, said he would like to see a moratorium on deportation of parents of
U.S. citizens. "Little girls in second grade should be worried about how many
dolls they have or what song they're going to sing, not whether the government
is going to deport their mom."

But Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates for stricter immigration controls, said the girl's questions
highlight the need for immigration reform that would reduce the number of
mixed-status families by making it more difficult for the parents to live in the
United States.

"If the parents had been unable to illegally settle here, then you wouldn't have
this situation," he said, adding that the girl's exchange with Obama shows that
undocumented immigrants live in the United States more openly than many people
think.

But the high-profile context of the girl's comments will make her family too
well known to deport, Krikorian said. "This kid has basically guaranteed that
her mother is not going to be deported under any circumstances."

Children born to illegal immigrants in the United States automatically are
granted citizenship. Some critics have called for a constitutional amendment
that would end that practice.

Although U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement does not keep track of
children left behind by those deported, about 100,000 children in the United
States saw a parent deported between 1997 and 2007, said Laura Vazquez with the
National Council of La Raza. Often, when one parent is deported, the other stays
in the country to raise the children. Still, she said, "there is a strong
economic impact on the family when one is deported."

There is also a psychological impact, according to studies that found children
of deportees are more emotionally unstable and less likely to be financially or
academically successful.

Staff writers David Montgomery and Ed O'Keefe contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama beefs up border security;
1,200 troops, $500 million GOP remains unswayed on immigration

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear and Spencer S. Hsu

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1001 words


President Obama will deploy 1,200 National Guard troops and request an extra
$500 million to secure the Mexican border, his administration said Tuesday, a
move dismissed by Republicans as insufficient to win their cooperation on an
overhaul of the nation's immigration system.

By reinforcing the 340 Guard members already monitoring border crossings and
analyzing intelligence, the initiative echoes 2006's Operation Jump Start, in
which President George W. Bush devoted 6,000 guardsmen to a two-year commitment
in support of the Border Patrol.

Then, as now, the troop deployment was fueled by heightened concerns about
lawlessness -- then it was illegal immigration, now it is drug traffickers -- as
well as political maneuvering in Washington to lay the groundwork for an effort
to change immigration policy. But the issue remains bitterly contentious, with
increasing pressure on Obama and lawmakers from both Latino supporters and
conservative activists.

The March 27 killing of Robert Krentz, a prominent Arizona rancher who had
reported drug-smuggling activity on his land, has galvanized political anger
toward illegal immigration in that state, although the identity of Krentz's
assailant remains under investigation. In Mexico, more than 22,700 people have
died in drug-related violence since the battle with cartels was joined in 2006.
Although U.S. officials say there has been little spillover violence, Arizona
has seen high-profile busts of drug- and human-smuggling safe houses, a rise in
extortion-related kidnappings and other disruptions.

White House officials called the Guard troops a "force multiplier" on the U.S.
side of the border and said some would engage in counternarcotics missions. In a
statement, the Mexican ambassador to the United States praised the "additional
US resources to enhance efforts to prevent the illegal flows of weapons and bulk
cash into Mexico, which provide organized crime with its firepower and its
ability to corrupt."

Clash with McCain

Obama's proposal came after a testy, closed-door meeting with Senate Republicans
on Capitol Hill in which the president clashed with his 2008 campaign rival,
Sen. John McCain (Ariz.), according to people present. The two sparred over
creating a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants -- something McCain
previously supported -- and a new Arizona law that requires police to identify
illegal immigrants.

"I said we needed to secure the border first," McCain recounted after Obama's
visit to the GOP luncheon. On the Arizona law, McCain said, "I pointed out that
members of his administration who have not read the law have mischaracterized
the law."

Obama told the Republican lawmakers during the hour-long session that he was
committing greater resources to border security than Bush did, but he stressed
that enforcement alone will not solve the country's immigration problems. He
urged the lawmakers to join a bipartisan effort to revamp the system, according
to White House officials and Senate aides.

But senators appeared underwhelmed. "I don't think that's the point," Sen.
Olympia J. Snowe (Maine) said of Obama's boast about outdoing Bush. "The point
is, how much do we need to get the job done?"

Quickly upping the ante, Senate Republicans offered an amendment to an emergency
war spending bill to provide an additional $2 billion in border funding -- four
times the size of Obama's proposal. McCain also introduced an amendment to send
6,000 troops to the border. Lawmakers could consider both proposals this week.

"The violence has crossed the border and escalated to a point where many
Arizonans do not feel safe within their own homes or on their own property,"
McCain and fellow Arizona Sen. Jon Kyl (R) wrote last week in a letter to Obama.
"It would be irresponsible not to do everything we can to stop the escalating
violence along the border with Mexico."

In a letter to the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, national
security adviser James L. Jones and White House terrorism adviser John O.
Brennan strongly opposed efforts to force the president's hand on sending more
troops to the border, saying that "there is no modern precedent for Congress to
direct the president to deploy troops in the manner sought." They called it an
"unwarranted interference" with Obama's role as commander in chief.

Timeline moved up

A Senate Democratic aide said the White House had long planned to push a border
security package, but its timing was accelerated by Senate GOP plans to force
votes this week on a string of amendments to the must-pass war funding bill;
among other things, the measures call for more troops and more aerial
surveillance drones to be sent to the border.

Criticism of Obama came swiftly from all sides, with supporters of immigration
reform saying he is conceding too much to his opponents, and foes of illegal
immigration condemning the resources he is committing as paltry.

"I feel like a starving man that's been handed a cracker," said William Gheen,
president of Americans for Legal Immigration, which favors increased security on
the border.

Kevin Appleby, director of migration policy for the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops, which supports comprehensive immigration changes, said devoting $500
million to the border "is not a long-term solution, and it does nothing to solve
the underlying problem of a broken immigration system."

Obama aides said the visit with Republicans was designed to persuade some of
them to back an eventual "path to citizenship" for the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the country. But the discussion appeared to highlight the
political pitfalls for Republicans.

At one point, according to a Republican in attendance, Obama mentioned that in
2006, more than 20 Republicans voted with Democrats to approve a comprehensive
immigration bill, noting that many of those Republicans were still in the
Senate.

"And many of them aren't," said Sen. James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.).

Staff writers Paul Kane and Shailagh Murray contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Fixing immigration, again;
Some in Congress prefer inaction to problem-solving.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 564 words


EVEN DRACONIAN measures like the one adopted in Arizona are not going to make 11
million immigrants already illegally here in this country magically disappear,
let alone address this country's dysfunctional immigration system. Neither is
President Obama's decision, announced this week, to deploy 1,200 National Guard
troops to the U.S.-Mexico border, a move that appears motivated at least as much
by election-year political anxiety as by genuine security concerns. After all,
illegal cross-border entries are down significantly in the past two years, and
so is violent crime in border states, as the administration itself has noted.

What would work is a multi-pronged approach like the one drafted by Sens.
Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), which would deploy
new personnel and technology to the border, coupled with employment verification
and a path to eventual legal status for undocumented immigrants already here.
Unfortunately, the legislation, still in draft form, stands no chance unless it
attracts a handful of Republican votes, which at the moment looks unlikely.

But the approach itself is sound and sensible. The outline of the Schumer bill
-- Mr. Graham having withdrawn his support -- spends about 20 of its 26 pages
dealing with how to tighten enforcement and stop  the inflow of illegal
immigrants. More Border Patrol officers would keep an eye on the nation's
frontiers. More agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement would fight
smuggling and check workplaces. The Pentagon would be called on to deploy
equipment to shut down illegal crossings, along with helicopters, speedboats,
night-vision equipment, unmanned drones and high-tech surveillance systems. Mr.
Schumer, it seems, is willing to create the modern-day equivalent of the Berlin
Wall -- if it will attract a handful of GOP senators.

His proposal also relies on a new high-tech Social Security card that would
include biometric data to be used exclusively to check employment eligibility.
Employers, who constitute the most effective checkpoint in terms of shutting
down illegal immigration, would no longer be able to use the excuse of ignorance
or a porous system to justify their hiring of people who are in the country
illegally.

At the same time, the measure would clear the backlog of some 2.6 million
relatives of U.S. citizens who are awaiting visas -- a process estimated to take
eight years -- and stop a self-defeating brain drain by offering visas to highly
educated immigrant scientists, mathematicians and engineers who receive advanced
degrees from American universities.

In the meantime, undocumented  immigrants in this country who registered and
passed background checks would be allowed to stay and work in the country -- but
they would have to wait until the backlog was cleared and the border security
benchmarks were met before they could apply for permanent resident status.

Some Democrats, including Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (Nev.),  stand
accused of doing the right thing for the wrong reason -- pushing an immigration
bill not to resolve the problem but to deal Republicans a political blow by
outing them as anti-Hispanic. But Republicans do face a choice: Address the
problem of illegal immigration by embracing this compromise or allow and
encourage the nation to keep screaming about it. So far, it appears they prefer
the screaming.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Stopping illegal immigrants with immoral laws?;
Excerpts from The On Faith panel at washingtonpost.com/onfaith

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 463 words


Below is an excerpt from "On Faith," a daily online religion section sponsored
by The Washington Post and Newsweek. Each week, Jon Meacham and Sally Quinn
engage figures from the world of faith in a conversation about an aspect of
religion.

Does the United States have a moral or spiritual obligation to help illegal
immigrants who are trying to better their lives? What about religious
obligations to welcome the stranger?

Immigration charitable but unsustainable: Illegal immigration is one of those
situations where I think Christian notions of charity and welcoming the stranger
lead us in exactly the wrong direction. . . . Yes, America must seem a
glittering paradise. . . . But the qualities that make America so attractive are
now endangered by . . . excessive human numbers. This is especially true in our
southern border states, where existing populations already tax natural
resources, especially water supplies, far beyond the point of sustainability.

Tom Flynn, executive director, Council for Secular Humanism

Illegal acts, not illegal people: Human beings should never be described as
illegal. One may commit an illegal act but one's existence is never, in the eyes
of God, illegal. . . . It is our obligation to provide a just solution to those
people who are currently undocumented under the present policy. That solution is
neither amnesty nor mass deportation.

Samuel Rodriguez, president, National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference

Arizona law outlaws faithful acts: We who live lives of privilege have a moral
and a spiritual obligation to help illegal immigrants trying to better their
lives. Our religious obligation to welcome the stranger is stronger than the
laws of the state. And not only are we our brother's and sister's keeper, but we
are our brother and sister at a different moment.

Valerie Elverton Dixon,  founder of JustPeaceTheory.com

Bible commands us to welcome the stranger: The Bible actually includes almost
120 passages about welcoming, taking care of and loving the stranger. . . . It
means resisting the fear of difference and moving to a place of radical welcome
and inclusion. And that means embracing people who are different than us without
trying to change them. We can celebrate our diversity and our difference.

Debra W. Haffner,  executive director, the Religious Institute

Serve the poor, but don't surrender to them: The United States is not a
bottomless money pit. We have serious economic challenges brought on by
unsustainable debt and too many "entitlements." Politicians have already given
away too much money to people in exchange for their votes. . . . The best course
to follow is to assist poor nations to become self-sustaining so they won't come
to America illegally.

Cal Thomas, syndicated political columnist

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 30, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Illegal migrants gravitate to Ariz. border;
Continuing flow fueling fresh fight over policy at leakiest sector in U.S.

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1023 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, ARIZ.


Along a rugged stretch of the Mexican border here in southern Arizona, U.S.
authorities captured 687 illegal immigrants in a 24-hour period last week, three
times the number captured near San Diego. During the past eight months, agents
have apprehended 168,000 migrants along this sector of the border.

The border crossers are so determined, and so impervious to a long-running
buildup of federal agents and technology, that few here think President Obama's
recent decision to dispatch 1,200 National Guard soldiers and $500 million will
make much difference.

"I doubt it, frankly," said Don Severe, a vocal opponent of illegal immigration
who favors stronger measures, including certain incarceration. "It sounds good,
but what are they going to do? We have a very serious problem."

Arizona, home of a controversial new law that makes it a state crime to be in
the country illegally, has become the leakiest portion of the nearly 2,000-mile
border. The continuing flow of illegal immigrants, compounded by a rise in
narcotics traffic and the slaying of an Arizona rancher, perhaps by a border
crosser, has triggered a fresh fight over immigration policy, animating
activities on both sides of the debate.

On Saturday, as thousands rallied in Phoenix for and against the new law, Gov.
Jan Brewer (R) sought to remove Attorney General Terry Goddard (D) from
defending Arizona against expected legal challenges. Although Brewer said she
feared that Goddard would collude with the Obama administration, which is
weighing such a challenge, Goddard said he would faithfully represent the state
despite personal opposition to the law. Meanwhile, Republican politicians, led
by Brewer and Sen. John McCain, are calling for stricter border security
measures.

The issue has polarized the community in ways that residents say are disturbing.

"I have seen situations in families where they are fighting," said the Rev. Vili
Valderrama, a priest at San Felipe de Jesus parish in heavily Hispanic Nogales.
He said benefactors who support the law have vowed to withhold contributions
from the Tucson Catholic Diocese because clergy publicly oppose it.

"There are not a lot of places in this community where you can have a civil
dialogue," said the Rev. Randy Mayer, pastor of Good Shepherd United Church of
Christ in Sahuarita, 50 miles north of Nogales. "The conversation has changed in
its tone. It has become much more polarized, much more hostile."

Nogales is the heart of a 262-mile stretch of border defined by sharp rises,
steep ravines and brutal desert heat. As border controls are tightened
elsewhere, including through the construction of a border fence in parts of
Arizona, California, Texas and New Mexico, Mexican migrants and smugglers have
gravitated to the 90,000-square-mile area known by U.S. Customs and Border
Protection as the Tucson Sector.

"When you plug a hole in the wall, the water looks for another spot to flow
through. Arizona is that spot," said Nogales police chief Jeff  Kirkham, who
reported that immigrants are "going over the wall, going through the wall or
through tunnels."

Others try to make their way though the remote desert where the high fence
stops. Once across the border, they face a daunting trek that can stretch 30
miles or more in heat approaching 100 degrees. Agents staff checkpoints and
crisscross the area, supported by millions of dollars worth of sensors, cameras,
surveillance aircraft and computer technology.

Since 2006, staffing of the Tucson Sector has increased 30 percent, to about
3,200 officers. But immigrants from across the globe keep coming over the border
-- alone or in groups, sometimes guided by smugglers, sometimes arriving at
official crossings neatly dressed  and with fake papers.

On a typical day, nearly 1 million people cross from Mexico into the United
States, according to U.S. government figures. About 270,000 vehicles cross the
Southwest border every 24 hours, along with about 57,000 truck, rail and sea
containers. Sixty percent of the Mexican fruit and vegetables entering the
United States comes through Nogales.

"This is our busy time of year," said Robert L. Boatright, deputy chief of the
Tucson Sector, talking about illegal immigrants,  not produce. He said it would
be impossible to "seal the border," as some critics demand. "The number of
agents it would take 24-7 would be incredible."

Border agents have "close to daily" encounters with smugglers with guns, most
linked to drug smuggling, he said. In announcing the National Guard deployment,
which echoes earlier approaches, Obama emphasized the need to slow the drugs
flowing north and the guns and cash heading south to the cartels waging war on
Mexican state authority.

By the same token, the number of captured border crossers -- an indication of
the volume of people who are getting though illegally -- dropped 41 percent
between 2005 and 2009. The border is at "an unprecedented state of control,"
Boatright said. "I know that's hard to believe with what you see and read right
now."

Although the flow of drugs appears to be rising, Kirkham said, Nogales's  64
police officers are not seeing a spillover of violence from Mexico. Property
crimes have been static, and Nogales has had just one homicide in the past three
years. "People that do cross here, they want to get out of this area as quickly
and quietly as possible," he said.

So far, 210 miles of the 262-mile Tucson Sector border is fenced. McCain, facing
GOP primary challenger J.D. Hayworth, a border hawk, made waves by declaring in
a campaign advertisement filmed in Nogales: "Complete the danged fence."

Boatright said the rough terrain makes finishing the fence impossible or
unnecessary.

"We're looking at a very small portion that we need to address," Boatright said.
"I'm talking two or three miles."

McCain is seeking 6,000 more National Guard soldiers, including 3,000 in
Arizona. Yet in Nogales, Gustavo Lozano, an activist who favors comprehensive
reform, believes that no measures now in the pipeline will stop illegal
immigration.

"Whatever fear they build up, whatever troops come to the border," Lozano said,
"people are still going to cross."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

'Los Samaritanos' reach out across border;
Arizona group offers aid to illegal migrants crossing the desert

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: GREEN VALLEY, ARIZ.


"Somos amigos," called Shura Wallin, ducking low into the shade beneath the
highway overpass. "We're friends," she said again in Spanish, calling out to
anyone who might be hiding. "Don't be afraid."

At a time when state and federal governments are focused on tightening the
border to keep out immigrants who cross illegally from Mexico, Wallin and her
colleagues help people who make the trip. They leave water and food along
well-known foot trails. They distribute maps showing the water sites and search
for trekking migrants. Sometimes, they find dead bodies.

Their efforts are at odds with a new Arizona law that makes it a state crime to
be in the United States illegally. Gov. Jan Brewer (R), who met behind closed
doors last week with President Obama, contends that the law known as SB1070 is
necessary to fill a federal leadership vacuum on immigration reform. Obama, who
has called the measure "misguided," has directed the Justice Department to
assess the law's constitutionality.

While the debate goes on, Wallin and a group of 140 volunteers who call
themselves Los Samaritanos work against brutal heat and an unforgiving desert
landscape where 61 migrants died in the seven months  that ended April 30. In a
region split by the increasingly fortified U.S.-Mexico border, they say they are
doing moral deeds in the face of a simple reality: Migrants keep coming.

"Most of the people we find are broken, beaten down, sobbing, so lonesome,
broken. They just want to go home," said the Rev. Randy Mayer, pastor of Good
Shepherd United Church of Christ in Sahuarita, Ariz., home to Los Samaritanos.
"We're just trying to stop people from dying. Somebody will say, 'What don't you
understand about "illegal"?' Well, it's more complicated than that."

U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials, who have caught 168,000 illegal
immigrants since Oct. 1 in this section of southern Arizona near Tucson,
disapprove of the effort.

"Anyone who encourages illegal activities adds to our workload," said Robert L.
Boatright, deputy head of the 90,000-square-mile Tucson region. He said the maps
and supplies give border crossers a "false sense of security."

"That's an incentive," he said, "but they might be on the wrong trail or the
water might be gone."

Don Severe, an activist in Green Valley who favors strict penalties for many
border crossers, put it another way: "How would you feel if one of these people
you helped went on and raped or killed your granddaughter?"

The debate over the border has intensified since the  killing of Cochise County
rancher Robert Krentz, who some suspect was slain by an illegal immigrant, and
Arizona's adoption of a law that empowers police to request identity papers from
anyone they stop and suspect of being here illegally. The law, due to take
effect July 29, is being challenged in federal court.

Wallin, a retiree who helped run homeless shelters in California, calls the
desert "beautiful but deadly." From weekly visits to the other side of the
border, where she talks with Mexicans who have been deported or defeated in
their efforts to cross into the United States, she knows the stories of
exploitative smugglers and dangerous treks.

"I can't live here knowing that people are almost literally dying in my back
yard and not do something to help," she said during a recent search mission that
took her south to the Mexican border town of Sasabe.

Wallin and Mayer packed one of three Samaritanos vehicles with water and food
one recent morning and drove to familiar stopping points on the trail from the
border, 40 miles away. Near a railroad track that stretches south to Nogales,
they ducked into a thicket of trees and scrub brush that offered shelter from
the blistering sun and the Border Patrol alike, scouting for evidence that
people had recently been there. At their next stop, they called out their
greetings beneath an Interstate 19 overpass, but found only water containers.

The pair made their way west through the remote landscape, stopping to talk with
two security guards hired through a private contractor, waiting in a bus rigged
like a mobile jail to haul away captured immigrants.

In Sasabe, on the Mexican side of the border, Wallin stopped to hand out water
and new white socks to a half-dozen laborers who said they were on their way
south from Arizona. The Samaritanos stopped in a small one-story building to
speak with an official from Grupos Beta, a wing of Mexico's immigration
authority, who estimated that 200 people a day were climbing the nearby fence or
driving into the desert to go around it.

"We try to convince them that it's dangerous and tell them to go home," the
official said. "But they say, 'It's the United States.' "

On many Sundays, a man stands outside Mayer's church and protests the rescue and
relief efforts. He wears a sign that says "Good Samaritan, Bad American." After
12 years working along the border, Mayer is mindful of the complexities of the
national immigration debate. But as he sees it, he is facing a moral imperative.

"It degrades me as a human being," Mayer said, "when I can't be compassionate to
another human being."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Peter Slevin / The Washington Post; These men were among a group
of migrant laborers that Shura Wallin and the Rev. Randy Mayer encountered south
of the border as they looked for people to help.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

New Arizona law is drawing broad support;
Poll also shows most favor program to earn legal residency

BYLINE: Jon Cohen and Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 797 words


Most Americans support the new, controversial Arizona law that gives police
there the power to check the residency status of suspected illegal immigrants.
But most also still back a program giving those here illegally the right to earn
legal documentation, according to a new Washington Post-ABC News poll.

Immigration has been rising in prominence as an issue and has the potential to
roil party unity on both sides as Democrats and Republicans push for the upper
hand in the midterm elections. Liberal Democrats are broadly against the Arizona
law; moderate and conservative Democrats are more evenly split on the issue.
Most  staunch Republicans oppose a "path to citizenship," while a majority of
other Republicans favor such a plan. At the Texas Republican convention last
week, the party splintered over the issue, with moderates proposing a
legalization plan through military service, and the party ultimately  adding an
Arizona-like  measure to  its plank.

"I'm for it [the Arizona law] because it's giving a sense of accountability and
it's making it easier to recognize who's who," said Terrance Hawkins, 36, a
comedian who lives in Oxon Hill and is a Democrat. Illegal immigrants, he said
in a follow-up interview, "just come and they stay, and they end up getting
health-care coverage."

But Nancy Thomas, 58, a Democrat who is a bodywork therapist in Annapolis,
criticized the law, which she worried could result in racial profiling. "It
leans too much on somebody's appearance, and it doesn't really depend on an
action somebody does," she said.

A further challenge for Democrats is that public disapproval over how President
Obama is dealing with immigration has edged higher, with 51 percent of all
respondents -- and 56 percent of political independents -- giving him negative
ratings on the issue.

One unifying immigration concern is the widespread perception that the federal
government is not doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from coming into the
country. Overall, 75 percent of those polled fault border enforcement, and 83
percent support using National Guard troops to patrol the U.S.-Mexico line.

Views about the government's performance on the border relate directly to
assessments of the Arizona law: 67 percent of those who see inadequate federal
action on the border favor the new law, compared with  31 percent of those who
see sufficient enforcement along the 1,954-mile frontier. In all, 58 percent of
Americans say they are supportive of the new law.

Several respondents said the scarcity of jobs was a factor in their support of
the law.

"They're affecting all the tool-bag trades," said Robert Sawyer, 42, an
electrician in Poquoson, Va., who is a Republican. Sawyer strongly supports the
Arizona law, he said, in part because he thinks illegal immigrants are
contributing to the unemployment woes some of his friends are suffering.
"They're good workers and all," he said of illegal immigrants, "but they're
taking all the jobs that Americans do."

A slim majority who see a lack of effort on the border say states should be
allowed to make and enforce their own immigration laws, while other respondents
prefer continued federal control by a  ratio greater than 2 to 1. But the main
divide on this question is ideological, with 83 percent of liberal Democrats and
34 percent of conservative Republicans preferring exclusive federal
jurisdiction.

There is a steep racial divide on the Arizona question: 68 percent of whites
back the law, compared with 31 percent of non-whites. White Democrats are about
evenly divided on the bill (51 percent in favor; 47 percent opposed), while
non-white Democrats are broadly opposed (24 percent support, and 73 percent
oppose).

At the same time that a majority of Americans back  the Arizona law, most say
they support a program allowing illegal immigrants already in the United States
the right to live here legally if they pay a fine and meet certain requirements.
In the new poll, 57 percent support the option, close to the level in spring
2009 at the 100-day mark of Obama's presidency.

"I think we should at least give them a chance to pay their dues; don't spit
them out," said Tillie Braswell, 77, a retiree in Bristol, Va. ,who opposes the
Arizona law and supports a path to citizenship for people here illegally. "We
should treat them with respect, the way I'd want to be treated if I were in
their country."

But Braswell, a Democrat, also thought border patrols should be beefed up,
perhaps by the National Guard. "Post them up and down, but don't let them be
shooting them," she said.

The poll was conducted June 3-6 among a random sample of 1,004 adults contacted
by conventional and cellular telephone. The results from the full poll have a
margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

The Week That Was

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW04

LENGTH: 223 words


News that appeared June 13-19 in The Washington Post that is of interest to
readers in Prince William County.

 Wednesday 16

Motorcycle gang members indicted

Mark Steven Fiel, 59, and 22 other members of the Outlaws motorcycle gang have
been indicted by a Virginia grand jury on charges that they were part of a
complex criminal enterprise that engaged in assaults, kidnapping, drug dealing,
illegal gambling and attempted murder. Officials say Fiel, known as "Snuff," is
president of the Outlaws' Manassas/Shenandoah Valley chapter. Four other members
of that chapter were included in the indictment, as well as Jack "Milwaukee
Jack" Rosga, 53, the Outlaws' national boss.

Friday 18

Stewart wants Va. to emulate Az.

Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said he will
spend the year lobbying the General Assembly to pass legislation to enhance law
enforcement powers to capture, detain and deport illegal immigrants, curb
illegal day laboring and create state penalties for illegal immigrants. He
called the effort the "Virginia Rule of Law Campaign." Stewart said his proposal
would go further than what Prince William passed in 2007. Nancy Lyall of the
immigrant advocacy group Mexicans Without Borders called the proposal
irresponsible.

For these and other articles, visit www.washingtonpost.com/princewilliam.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 475 words

IMMIGRATION

Ariz. governor links immigrants, drugs

 Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) said Friday that most  illegal immigrants entering
Arizona are being used to transport drugs across the border, an assertion that
critics painted as exaggerated and racist.

"I believe today, under the circumstances that we're facing, that the majority
of the illegal trespassers that are coming into the state of Arizona are under
the direction and control of organized drug cartels and they are bringing drugs
in," Brewer said.

Sen. JesÃºs RamÃ³n ValdÃ©s, a member of the Mexican Senate's northern border
affairs commission, called Brewer's comments racist and irresponsible. Jaime
Farrant, policy director for the group Border Action Network, called Brewer's
comments "an oversimplification of reality."

Brewer on April 23 signed a controversial state immigration enforcement law that
will take effect July 29 unless blocked by a court.

-- Associated Press

OREGON

Kevorkian-inspired doctor disciplined

 Medical regulators suspended the license of a Portland psychiatrist who plans
to open a home for terminally ill patients seeking to kill themselves.

The Oregon Medical Board took action Thursday against Stuart Weisberg in an
investigation of improperly prescribing drugs.

Oregon in 1997 became the first state to make it legal for a doctor to prescribe
a life-ending drug to a terminally ill patient who requests it. More than 400
people have used the option, but most swallow the lethal medication in their
homes.

"Dignity House" would have been the first of its kind in the United States,
where assisted suicide is illegal in all but three states. Weisberg said he was
inspired by Jack Kevorkian, who pioneered assisted suicide.

-- Associated Press

New Hampshire woman dies after power shut-off: New Hampshire Gov. John Lynch (D)
has called on state regulators to review procedures on power shut-offs because a
woman who used oxygen equipment died Thursday after a utility cut her
electricity. Kay Phaneuf, 53, had been in critical condition since her husband
found her unconscious Monday about an hour after power to their home was shut
off.

Hartford, Conn., mayor resigns:  The mayor of Hartford, Conn., resigned Friday,
a week after being convicted in a political corruption case. Mayor Eddie Perez
(D) said he hopes residents will forgive him for what he called "mistakes I made
that have harmed the reputation of the city I love." Perez faces up to 60 years
in prison after being convicted of extortion and other charges.

Restaurateur charged in assault on critic: A bar owner in Albany, N.Y., was
charged Friday with hiring a man to beat up the food critic for a newspaper that
reported on the restaurateur's checkered past. Timothy Rankins, 41, is accused
of having associates assault Steve Barnes, the Albany Times Union's food writer,
in 2008.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sean D. Elliot/associated Press; ARMED FORCES Chief of the Boat
Joseph Wilt carries the commissioning pennant of the USS Philadelphia to mark
the end of Friday's decommissioning ceremony for the submarine at the naval base
in Groton, Conn. The Philadelphia was commissioned 33 years ago.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 27, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

A bad birthright idea

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 760 words


They are called "anchor babies" -- the children born in the United States of
illegal immigrant parents -- and pressure is growing to change the meaning of
the 14th Amendment so as to deny them automatic citizenship.

Ninety-one members of Congress have signed on as co-sponsors of a bill to do
just that. It was submitted in the House last year by Georgia Republican Nathan
Deal. Backers of Arizona's harsh anti-immigrant measure are drafting legislation
that would withhold birth certificates from these babies. Similar measures are
being proposed in other states.

The United States is one of the few countries in the world that bestows
"birthright citizenship." Opponents of the practice say that it induces
immigrants to enter the country illegally with the devious strategy of having a
baby as a citizen "anchor," through which the rest of the family can petition to
stay and get access to American jobs and welfare.

But ending birthright citizenship might be the worst idea of the immigration
debate. It strikes at the core of American identity, punishes all Americans by
requiring them to prove their citizenship, overthrows two centuries of
legislative intent and court rulings, and accomplishes next to nothing in
resolving illegal immigration.

The 14th Amendment states: "All persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the state wherein they reside."

The abrogationists would reinterpret the phrase "and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof." They argue that unauthorized immigrants are not subject to U.S.
jurisdiction and that Congress, acting in 1866 at the end of the Civil War,
meant for the amendment to apply only to recently freed slaves.

Go back, however, and read the transcripts of the 1866 debate in the Senate and
you find that both those for and against the amendment readily acknowledged its
application to illegal immigrants. A Pennsylvania senator, for example, objected
to granting citizenship to the children of aliens who regularly commit
"trespass" within the United States. The concern then was with babies of gypsy
or Chinese parents.

But Congress and the ratifying states opted instead to uphold a founding
principle of the republic that was fundamental to the peaceful building of a
multiethnic immigrant nation, however imperfectly. In a world plagued by bloody
ethnic conflicts, that concern remains valid.

The Supreme Court has regularly upheld birthright citizenship, most recently in
1982 in Plyler v. Doe, in which all nine justices agreed that the 14th Amendment
applied to legal and illegal immigrants alike, and a majority ruled that Texas
had to offer public school education to children of illegal immigrants.

Abrogating birthright citizenship additionally would create practical chaos. All
Americans would have to prove their citizenship. Birth certificates would no
longer do. Yet we lack a national registry of who is a citizen.

As West Point professor Margaret Stock says: "The government would have to
adjudicate the citizenship status of every child born within U.S. borders based
on the exceedingly complex rules of derivative citizenship, or citizenship by
blood. Currently, [it] takes more than a year to make such determinations, and
the process is expensive and fraught with error."

The abrogationists confuse the historical ecosystem on the U.S.-Mexican border
with illegal immigrants in general. Pregnant Mexican women from border towns do
commonly cross just to have a baby in the United States. But their extended
families have often straddled the border for a century or more. The women tend
to be middle class, pre-pay the hospitals in cash and go home, though their
children can someday return.

A handful of tourists do the same, but the total of all these is minuscule.
Significant are the 4 million children in 2008 with one or more unauthorized
immigrant parents spread throughout the country, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center. Repeated studies, however, show that their parents came for jobs or to
join family. The children were normal byproducts of life, and not an immigration
strategy. The parents are not eligible for welfare or for citizenship until
after the child turns 21.

Improved enforcement has dramatically slowed the flow of illegal immigration.
What's needed now is comprehensive immigration reform to finish the job. Talk of
birthright citizenship is an unwise diversion.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's disciples;
In Prince William County and beyond

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 600 words


ARIZONA'S SPASM of xenophobia has inspired copycats as well as critics around
the country, a disparate response that reflects Americans' ambivalence toward
illegal immigration. In a Washington Post-ABC poll last month, a majority of
respondents said they favored the Arizona law, which allows police broad
discretion to check the residency status of people -- "your papers, please!" --
based on an arbitrary "suspicion" that they may be undocumented. At the same
time, a majority in the poll said they favored amnesty for the estimated 11
million  immigrants living in this country illegally -- that is, allowing them
to remain in the county, shift to legal status and eventually become eligible
for citizenship if they pay a fine and meet other requirements.

That ambivalence, and the political impasse around immigration reform, framed
President Obama's speech on the issue Thursday -- his first since becoming
president. The president accurately diagnosed the political dimensions of
problem: that mending the nation's broken immigration system is stalled in the
absence of Republican support in the Senate. Unfortunately, he offered no new
ideas to fix the system. His speech, prompted mainly by immigrants' groups
unhappy with his administration's inaction, seemed more an attempt to keep
Hispanic voters within the Democratic coalition than to inject new life into a
moribund debate.

With Congress incapable of acting, other states are now likely to come under
increasing pressure to do what Arizona has done.

A test case may be developing in Virginia, where a local politician who has
ridden the wave of sentiment against undocumented immigrants  wants to push the
issue even more. Corey A. Stewart, the top elected official in Prince William
County, has proposed a legislative agenda that takes Arizona's law as its
template but goes further. Mr. Stewart, a Republican who faces reelection next
year, has proposed what he calls the "Virginia Rule of Law Campaign," a package
of legislation that, among other measures, would authorize police to ascertain
the immigration status of any individual upon "any lawful contact." If that's
not an invitation to racial profiling and harassment-on-a-whim, nothing is.

Mr. Stewart, chairman of the county Board of Supervisors, was the driving force
behind Prince William's crackdown on undocumented  immigrants in 2007, which
bred intolerance in the previously relatively harmonious county. The law he
sponsored requires the county police to determine the immigration status of
suspects upon arrest. Its passage, and bluster from Mr. Stewart and his allies,
prompted some illegal immigrants to leave the county -- and probably go to
neighboring jurisdictions. Mr. Stewart, with his characteristic disdain for
facts, asserts that their departure is responsible for the county's falling
crime rate. In fact, the drop in crime mirrors regional and national trends.

Virginia Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) has wisely kept his distance from Mr.
Stewart's attempt to take his crusade statewide, saying only he'll study
whatever comes up. The governor correctly notes that the federal government has
failed to fashion a workable immigration system, and that the nation's laws
should be obeyed "and lawful immigration .  .  . encouraged and facilitated."

Americans remain deeply divided over immigration, and politicians like Mr.
Stewart have enjoyed some success in stoking tensions over that divide. Until
Congress reforms the nation's immigration system, undocumented immigrants will
remain in limbo, and Mr. Stewart and his ilk will make political hay by hounding
them.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 4, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Arizona's disciples;
In Prince William County and beyond

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 600 words


ARIZONA'S SPASM of xenophobia has inspired copycats as well as critics around
the country, a disparate response that reflects Americans' ambivalence toward
illegal immigration. In a Washington Post-ABC poll last month, a majority of
respondents said they favored the Arizona law, which allows police broad
discretion to check the residency status of people -- "your papers, please!" --
based on an arbitrary "suspicion" that they may be undocumented. At the same
time, a majority in the poll said they favored amnesty for the estimated 11
million  immigrants living in this country illegally -- that is, allowing them
to remain in the county, shift to legal status and eventually become eligible
for citizenship if they pay a fine and meet other requirements.

That ambivalence, and the political impasse around immigration reform, framed
President Obama's speech on the issue Thursday -- his first since becoming
president. The president accurately diagnosed the political dimensions of
problem: that mending the nation's broken immigration system is stalled in the
absence of Republican support in the Senate. Unfortunately, he offered no new
ideas to fix the system. His speech, prompted mainly by immigrants' groups
unhappy with his administration's inaction, seemed more an attempt to keep
Hispanic voters within the Democratic coalition than to inject new life into a
moribund debate.

With Congress incapable of acting, other states are now likely to come under
increasing pressure to do what Arizona has done.

A test case may be developing in Virginia, where a local politician who has
ridden the wave of sentiment against undocumented immigrants  wants to push the
issue even more. Corey A. Stewart, the top elected official in Prince William
County, has proposed a legislative agenda that takes Arizona's law as its
template but goes further. Mr. Stewart, a Republican who faces reelection next
year, has proposed what he calls the "Virginia Rule of Law Campaign," a package
of legislation that, among other measures, would authorize police to ascertain
the immigration status of any individual upon "any lawful contact." If that's
not an invitation to racial profiling and harassment-on-a-whim, nothing is.

Mr. Stewart, chairman of the county Board of Supervisors, was the driving force
behind Prince William's crackdown on undocumented  immigrants in 2007, which
bred intolerance in the previously relatively harmonious county. The law he
sponsored requires the county police to determine the immigration status of
suspects upon arrest. Its passage, and bluster from Mr. Stewart and his allies,
prompted some illegal immigrants to leave the county -- and probably go to
neighboring jurisdictions. Mr. Stewart, with his characteristic disdain for
facts, asserts that their departure is responsible for the county's falling
crime rate. In fact, the drop in crime mirrors regional and national trends.

Virginia Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) has wisely kept his distance from Mr.
Stewart's attempt to take his crusade statewide, saying only he'll study
whatever comes up. The governor correctly notes that the federal government has
failed to fashion a workable immigration system, and that the nation's laws
should be obeyed "and lawful immigration .  .  . encouraged and facilitated."

Americans remain deeply divided over immigration, and politicians like Mr.
Stewart have enjoyed some success in stoking tensions over that divide. Until
Congress reforms the nation's immigration system, undocumented immigrants will
remain in limbo, and Mr. Stewart and his ilk will make political hay by hounding
them.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

THE PLUM LINE;
Excerpts from Greg Sargent's blog on domestic politics and debate on the Hill:
voices.washingtonpost.com/plum-line

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 272 words

Rand Paul and the immigration fence

 Does Rand Paul really want to build an underground electronic fence on the
Mexican border to stop illegal immigration? His campaign says no.

The Kentucky candidate for the U.S. Senate raised quite a few eyebrows in
Republican circles recently when the news broke that his campaign Web site
listed a plan for "an underground electric fence, with helicopter stations to
respond quickly to breaches of the border."

Even John Cornyn, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, was
baffled, wondering aloud to the Huffington Post: "How would that work?"

But Paul spokesman Jesse Benton has clarified that the Web site is wrong -- the
fence Paul envisions, while electronic, is not meant to be underground. "That's
a stupid word that was put in by whoever is writing for our Web site and we need
to remove it," Benton said.

Benton said that Paul does think an electronic fence "should be explored" and
that Paul envisions it having a "combination of thermal imaging, satellite
technology, motion detection and helicopters at key checkpoints."

But it wouldn't be underground. "Perhaps some of the thermal stuff might be
buried, but that's it," Benton said. The electronic fence idea isn't new; it has
been tried in other countries, but various proposals floated have been
non-starters.

Benton added that Paul isn't necessarily wedded to the fence being electronic.
"Rand's priority is to secure the border by all appropriate means," he said. "He
supports any kind of fence, whether it's physical or electronic."

So no need to worry about any underground fences. It's not on Rand Paul's to-do
list.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Puerto Rico calls to Republicans

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 797 words


ARepublican governor -- a very Republican governor -- has an idea for solving
one of his party's conundrums. The party should listen to Luis Fortuno, the
Reaganite who resides in Puerto Rico's executive mansion.

Conservatives need a strategy for addressing the immigration issue without
alienating America's largest and most rapidly growing minority. Conservatives
believe the southern border must be secured before there can be "comprehensive"
immigration reform that resolves the status of the 11 million illegal
immigrants. But this policy risks making Republicans seem hostile to Hispanics.

Fortuno wants Republicans to couple insistence on border enforcement with
support for Puerto Rican statehood. This, he says, would resonate deeply among
Hispanics nationwide. His premise is that many factors -- particularly, the
Telemundo and Univision television channels -- have created a common
consciousness among Hispanics in America.

How many know that Puerto Ricans are American citizens? That every president
since Truman has affirmed Puerto Rico's right to opt for independence or
statehood? That every Republican platform since 1968 has endorsed Puerto Rico's
right to choose statehood? That Ronald Reagan, announcing his candidacy in 1979,
said, "I favor statehood for Puerto Rico"?

Fortuno supports H.R. 2499 (also supported by such House conservatives as
Minority Whip Eric Cantor, Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence and former
Republican Study Committee chairman Jeb Hensarling), which would provide for a
plebiscite on the island's current status. If a majority favor this status, the
question could be asked again in eight years. If a majority vote for change, a
second plebiscite would offer a choice among the current status, independence,
"sovereignty in association with the United States" and statehood.

Puerto Rico, which is only half as far from Florida as Hawaii is from
California, is about the size of Connecticut. Its population is larger than the
populations of 24 states. There are, however, problems.

Puerto Rico's per capita income ($14,905) is only 50 percent of that of the
poorest state (Mississippi, $30,103) and 27 percent of the richest (Connecticut,
$54,397). The fact that Puerto Ricans are at home in American society does not
entail the conclusion that the commonwealth, a distinct cultural and linguistic
entity (most on the island do not speak English), belongs in the federal union.
Currently, Puerto Ricans pay federal income taxes only on income from off the
island.

Fortuno says the present system has failed to prevent the income disparity with
the mainland from widening. But America does not want lukewarm citizens. In
three referendums (1967, 1993, 1998), Puerto Ricans favored the status quo -- an
unincorporated territory -- over statehood. In 1998, the vote was 50.4 percent
to 46.5 percent. In the 1950s, the last time the federal union was enlarged,
Hawaiians and Alaskans overwhelmingly supported statehood.

Many Republicans suspect that congressional Democrats support statehood for the
same reason they want to pretend that the District of Columbia is a state -- to
get two more senators (and in Puerto Rico's case, perhaps six members of the
House). Such Republicans mistakenly assume that the island's population of 4
million has the same Democratic disposition as the 4.2 million Puerto Ricans in
the Bronx and elsewhere on the mainland.

Fortuno disagrees, noting that while Republicans on the mainland were losing in
2008, he was elected in the island's biggest landslide in 44 years. The party he
leads won more than two-thirds of the seats in both houses of the legislature
and three-fifths of the mayoralties, including that of San Juan. Fortuno, who
calls himself a "values candidate" and goes to Catholic services almost every
day, says that Puerto Ricans are culturally conservative -- 78 percent are
pro-life, 91 percent oppose same-sex marriage and 30 percent of the 85 percent
who are Christian are evangelicals. A majority supports his agenda, which
includes tax and spending cuts, trimming 16,000 from public payrolls to begin
eliminating the deficit that was 45 percent of the size of the budget.

Fortuno, 49, who has degrees from Georgetown University's School of Foreign
Service and the University of Virginia's law school, looks half his age.
"Republicans," he says, "cannot continue to oppose every Hispanic issue." If he
is correct that Puerto Rican statehood is, or can become, such an issue,
Republicans should hear him out.

The United States acquired Puerto Rico 112 years ago in the testosterone spill
called the Spanish-American War. Before another century passes, perhaps Puerto
Ricans' ambivalence about their somewhat ambiguous status can be rectified to
the advantage of Republicans.

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 22, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Federal suits target Neb. immigration ordinance

BYLINE: Michael W. Savage

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 447 words


Two federal lawsuits were filed Wednesday against the small town of Fremont,
Neb., seeking to overturn a controversial ordinance banning illegal immigrants
from renting homes or taking jobs.

Fremont, a rural town with a population of about 25,000, found itself at the
front line of the immigration debate when it passed the law after a special
election last month.

It was due to go into effect July 29, but a federal lawsuit filed by the
American Civil Liberties Union seeks an immediate injunction while the legal
battle is taking place. The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
also filed suit against the city.

About 45 percent of the town's eligible voters turned out for the special
election, approving the ordinance 57 percent to 43 percent. Supporters of the
law said it was needed because illegal immigrants were taking away jobs from
legal workers and because the federal government has refused to take sufficient
action against illegal immigration.

The ACLU's lawsuit claims the law is unconstitutional because immigration policy
is the responsibility of the federal government. It also states that the measure
risks committing racial profiling and fanning discrimination.

"There's a very palpable fear that is being expressed by our clients on the
ground already, asking if they should just move out of Fremont," said Amy
Miller, legal director of ACLU Nebraska. "Nebraska doesn't need a law on its
books that, like Arizona's, is completely out of step with American values of
fairness and equality."

Miller was referring to an Arizona law that gives police the power to question
anyone whom they have a "reasonable suspicion" is an illegal immigrant. The U.S.
Justice Department has sued to overturn the law.

Fremont's immigrant population has grown over the past 20 years as foreign
workers have been attracted by the meatpacking industry. According to census
records for 2008, about 4.4 percent of its population was foreign-born.

Dean Skokan, Fremont's city attorney, said he could not comment on the suits
because he had not yet seen them. He added that he expected to issue a statement
Thursday.

City officials are bracing for the costs of fighting the lawsuits. Other towns
whose immigration measures were struck down in the courts, such as Hazleton,
Pa., and Farmers Branch, Tex., have spent  millions in legal fees.

Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which advocates tougher laws on illegal immigration, said the lawsuits were an
attempt to "intimidate local governments from taking action."

This ordinance "wasn't just an act of the city council. This was the voters of
Fremont saying they wanted to do this," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 24, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

The human toll of immigration gridlock

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 720 words


The article was largely buried in most newspapers, if run at all.

So many bodies of unauthorized migrants are being found in the Arizona desert
this month, the Associated Press reported, that the Pima County Medical Examiner
was stacking them like boxes of fish in a refrigerated truck.

Forty bodies were found in just the first half of the month.

Last year, 317 Americans died fighting in Afghanistan. Guess how many migrants,
mostly Mexicans searching for work, died crossing illegally into America? The
Border Patrol collected 422 bodies  in the last fiscal year, part of a rising
trend.

And most die in the desert. Here is how Luis Alberto Urrea, in his book, "The
Devil's Highway," described what happens:

"Dehydration had reduced all your inner streams to sluggish mudholes. . . . Your
sweat runs out. . . . Your temperature redlines -- you hit 105, 106, 108
degrees. . . . Your muscles, lacking water, feed on themselves. They break down
and start to rot. . . . The system closes down in a series. Your kidney, your
bladder, your heart."

Yet these deaths figure little in the debate over immigration. There is faint
sense of scandal, of tragedy or, certainly, of urgency to agree on a solution.
The extremists rule, with one side calling for more enforcement and the other
saying enforcement doesn't work.

The former has the louder voice today, making it the bigger culprit, but the
latter -- humanitarian groups, for one -- share in the blame. They seem not to
find any enforcement policy they like, abandoning responsibility.

The Obama administration, like the Bush administration before it, is caught in
the middle, a Gulliver tied by Lilliputians and unable to take command of the
fight.

If our nation's legislators felt free to vote their conscience and intelligence,
it's a good bet that at least 80 percent of the Senate and two-thirds of the
House would vote now for a comprehensive immigration package. It would include a
robust temporary worker program, improved workplace enforcement, recruitment of
highly skilled immigrants and a pathway to legalization for the estimated 10.8
million unauthorized immigrants here.

There would be wrangling over the details, but the agreement on these principles
is no secret among Washington insiders in the debate. The rest of the country
just doesn't know it.

In polling, most Americans say much the same about those principles, but our
solons, unable to see beyond the November elections, timidly cow to the
extremists in their political bases.

What might help some of them find their spine? The president must first find
his.

A good place to begin is on the U.S.-Mexico border. The first of the 1,200
National Guard troops President Obama has ordered to the border arrive Aug. 1.
The president should make a dramatic gesture and send as many as 10,000 more.
Instead of the 500 going to Arizona, he should up the force there to at least
the 3,000 that Republican Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl are asking for.

The gesture is mostly political -- the Guard is not trained for border
patrolling -- but political action is what's needed now. This would reassure the
American middle that the government is in control and give legislators the cover
they need.

Besides, the temporary show of force may  deter more immigrants from crossing
the desert and dying.

The second thing the president should do is reach a quick deal with the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce on a temporary worker program. The chamber went off the deep
end with its recent diatribe that the administration is anti-business, but the
business side of the Republican Party must be re-empowered against the
immigration restrictionists of the Tea Party movement, on this issue and much
more.

Employers want such a program, and no amount of enforcement will work without
legal avenues to help them fill jobs that Americans can't or won't do at
competitive wage levels.

The alternative is to do nothing and have more scenes such as that of
29-year-old Jorge Garcia. On his way last year to rejoin his family, Garcia, a
diabetic, was found in the Japul Mountains on the border with California, dead
from what coroners later said was a lack of  insulin. Clutched in his fingers
was a photo of his daughters.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Try McCain's border plan;
How Obama might break a political logjam

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 796 words


The court victory that the Obama administration won this week in Arizona will
not make the ugly national tension over illegal immigration go away. The
president needs to take this brief respite, step back from the Washington logjam
and remember what he and every president since Ronald Reagan has been trying to
achieve.

If he does, he might ask: Why not accept John McCain's 10-point border security
plan

Answer: He should. Now. Or immediately after the Arizona primary election on
Aug. 24.

Policy wonks and pro-immigrant Democrats will object, but they are stuck in a
mind-set that no longer applies. Rightly or wrongly, the public's patience with
illegal immigration has run out. Barack Obama, like George W. Bush before him,
has had no choice politically or legally but to enforce the law. The ballooning
enforcement budget -- about 10 times larger than in 1993 -- is diminishing the
flow of new immigrants.

But it is also forcing Obama to do what he and the other presidents have tried
to avoid: deport those unauthorized people -- many with families -- who are
honest and hardworking and integral to the U.S. economy. This year alone, the
Obama administration is on track to deport about 400,000 illegal immigrants --
only a small percentage of them real criminals -- out of an estimated population
of less than 11 million.

Nearly 5 percent of the nation's workforce is made up of unauthorized
immigrants. Large parts of agriculture, construction, and the leisure and
hospitality industries would risk collapse if workers were deported. In 2008,
the last year for which data are available, the unauthorized made up 19 percent
of building, groundskeeping and maintenance workers; 17 percent of the
construction trades; and 12 percent of food preparation and service workers,
according to the Census Bureau.

It is easy to say that unemployed Americans would fill these jobs -- even if
that were possible, which it largely isn't -- but the economic upheaval would be
disastrous at a time when the nation is struggling to recover from a deep
recession.

Most of these immigrants are now part of us. Some Americans are obsessed with
blaming the immigrants for being illegal, but that thinking fails to recognize
that we as a nation are as guilty as these gardeners, dishwashers, baby sitters,
home-care providers and chicken-pluckers. The hiring of unauthorized workers was
part of a tacitly accepted labor system begun by farmers in the Southwest in the
1960s and spread by employers and consumers across the country. All acted
illegally.

Illegal immigrants helped fuel the great economic expansion of the 1990s and
into this decade. It is true that the shrunken pie caused by the recession now
has to be split among more mouths, but that is what you do in a family and
community.

Perhaps this is why in polls, most Americans say they want to legalize those
already here while backing the Arizona law as a way to stop more from coming
illegally. In a CNN/Opinion Research poll released this week, fully 81 percent
said they would favor "creating a program that would allow illegal immigrants
already living in the United States for a number of years to stay here and apply
to legally remain in this country permanently if they had a job and paid back
taxes."

Yet Obama remains stuck with his supporters in trying to craft outdated grand
bargains that would trade legalization for enforcement that is already being
done.

Obama should hold a summit on the border with Southwest senators, accept the
plan by McCain and Sen. Jon Kyl, also of Arizona, and say that he is submitting
legislation that would lead to legalization. Privately, he should challenge the
Southwest Republicans to take credit for the enforcement or be exposed for
economic and moral irresponsibility if they continue to demand that enforcement
be implemented "first," which their histories suggest they don't actually
believe in.

The McCain-Kyl plan calls for 6,000 National Guard troops, more Border Patrol
officers, drones and expansion of a program that jails repeat border jumpers
under criminal charges.

McCain, once vulnerable, now coasts to reelection. He is the Senate linchpin.
His plan may be more grandstanding than effective policy, but the alternative is
the steady deportation of nearly 11 million people. We would all suffer.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

More Post commentary on immigration: Former commissioners of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service on why the Obama administration had to
sue Arizona over its immigration law.

A University of Arizona law professor and the University of California at Davis
law school dean on the Supreme Court ruling that supports the profiling in
Arizona's law.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 27, 2010 Tuesday 1:00 PM EST

Opinion Focus with Eugene Robinson

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2406 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson was online to discuss his
recent columns and the latest news.Read his column
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/26/AR2010042602595.
htmlArizona's new immigration law is an act of vengeance</a> in which Gene
writes: "Arizona's draconian new immigration law is an abomination -- racist,
arbitrary, oppressive, mean-spirited, unjust. About the only hopeful thing that
can be said is that the legislation, which Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed
Friday, goes so outrageously far that it may well be unconstitutional."


Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson was online to discuss his recent
columns and the latest news.Read his column
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/26/AR2010042602595.
html'>Arizona's new immigration law is an act of vengeance in which Gene writes:
"Arizona's draconian new immigration law is an abomination -- racist, arbitrary,
oppressive, mean-spirited, unjust. About the only hopeful thing that can be said
is that the legislation, which Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed Friday, goes so
outrageously far that it may well be unconstitutional."

_______________________

Eugene Robinson: Welcome, everyone. Actually, in solidarity with the U.S.
citizens and legal residents who will face state-sanctioned discrimination
because of that awful new law in Arizona, I should say: Bienvenidos! As those of
you who read this morning's column already know, I think the state's draconian
new immigration law, which mandates racial profiling, is an abomination. I wish
some of the Tea Party folks would join me in condemning this outrageous
big-government infringement of individual rights, but maybe they believe the
rights of some Americans are worth protecting and the rights of other Americans
aren't. Let's get started.

_______________________

Forgetting indigenous Americans (which isn't anything new): Both my parents are
members of the Obijway tribe and they were a bit older and remember the days of
"the day pass" when if you wanted to leave the reservation for any reason, even
to visit a hospital, you have to convince a federal official working there to
issue you a pass. You had to give a complete description of where you were going
and why and he could easily say no without any cause. If he did issue a day
pass, there was a specific time on it that you had to be back on the reservation
by and you could be arrested and beaten if you were late. It's a sad part of our
history. South Africans based many of their Apartheid laws on how American
reservations were run. So forgive me if I roll my eyes with I hear pundits
describe the new "papers, please" law in Arizona as "not something that happens
in America."

Eugene Robinson: Thank you for the history lesson. It's something that should
never happen in America again.

_______________________

Tea Party Movement and Arizona Law: Greetings and thanks for the article.Your
reference to the silence of the Tea Party Movement on Arizona's new immigration
law is very interesting. Can you say more? Does this attitude expose what the
TPM is really about?

Eugene Robinson: That question should be posed to the Tea Party crowd. They say
that they see Big Government taking away our individual rights. Well, in
Arizona, the government will have the right to stop you, and interrogate you,
and demand to see your "papers," even if you are a born-and-bred American
citizen who looks "suspiciously" like an illegal immigrant -- which means, a
citizen who looks Mexican. Why isn't this a Tea Party cause celebre?

_______________________

arizona's new law: Your piece today concedes that Arizona faces a huge problem
with illegal immigration, and concedes that the Federal Government has failed to
address this problem. Why, then, do you have to smear the new law and its
supporters as "racist" and "xenophobic"? If you think the law won't work, that's
one thing, but since you admit that there's a strong rationale for some kind of
response, why suggest (with no evidence) bad motives on the part of the new
law's supporters?

Eugene Robinson: The law is racist because blond-haired, blue-eyed Arizonans
won't be stopped on suspicion of being illegals. Only Latinos will be. As for
the xenophobic part, I've been to Arizona to report on immigration issues and
I've met a couple of the big proponents of this bill, and I stand by the
characterization.

_______________________

Immigration bill and Tom Tancredo: What's your take on Tancredo's unexpected (to
me, at least) resistance to AZ's Immigration Bill? Given his previous
statements, you'd think he'd be in ecstasy over it. Why the opposition to it
now? Thanks--

Eugene Robinson: You're referring to former congressman Tom Tancredo, who I
thought was as anti-immigrant as anyone could be -- but who doesn't approve of
the Arizona law. All I can say is that if it's too extreme for Tancredo, that
should settle the issue.

_______________________

Andrea Caumont: Stick around for a chat with Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.) at 3
pm about the Arizona immigration conflict.

_______________________

Arizona Immigration Law: Mr. Robinson,So, what does "moderate" immigration
reform look like? The Kennedy/McCain law that died a couple of years ago in
Congress didn't address the major problem: border security. We cannot consider
any sort of path to citizenship for current illegal immigrants until we secure
the border. I'm not for jailing or deporting people, but to allow widespread
amnesty without doing a better job of securing the border is just a recipe for
disaster and will only embolden more illegal immigrants to attempt to cross.

Eugene Robinson: This is always one of the problems -- we can't do X until we do
Y, and we can't do Y until we do Z, and that can't happen until A and B are
fixed. I do not believe that any American president, from either party, is going
to believe that it is in the strategic interest of the United States to build an
impregnable fortress-like wall along the entire border with Mexico. So I doubt
that the border will ever be totally secure. It would be more secure if there
were a workable system through which Mexicans could legally immigrate, but from
the point of view of someone who wants to come north, that looks hopeless.
Meanwhile, we all know that there are millions of people here without documents,
and we're not going to find all those people and send them home. So with the
exception of the few who are criminals or otherwise undesirable, why not give
them a "path to citizenship," which is what amnesty will be called? I mean, it's
already the case that people who come here illegally believe they're going to be
able to find a way to stay. Why would something like Kennedy/McCain make a
difference?

_______________________

Immigrant workers: My daughter has worked in Ireland, France and currently in
England. In each, to get a work permit, she had to submit financial statements,
a letter from IRS that she had filed income tax returns for the last 3 years.
This has to be done every two years. No business will hire anyone without the
work permit. Why not here?

Eugene Robinson: Well, that's a good question. Illegal migrants would not come
to this country unless they believed they could find work. If nobody hired them,
they'd go home.

_______________________

Arizona's SB 1070 Law: I just read your article on Arizona's Act of Vengeance
and I have been watching closely what others have to say about it... Since I am
of Mexican descent and a true Arizonan (born and raised) I have been accused of
being emotional when responding to those who are in favor of this legislation.
Today on the morning show, The View.. Ms. Barbara Walters said that 70% of
Arizonans are in favor of this law and she never quite said where she got her
information from or where this poll was conducted... I am interested to know
whether this is indeed true...because if 70% of the people in my beautiful state
think this is ok...then it might be time for me to move...A very saddened
Arizonan,Claudia Cordova Hannum

Eugene Robinson: As I understand it, that was a Rasmussen poll of "likely
voters" in Arizona. Rasmussen is a recognized and respected polling firm, but I
have seen some blogs questioning the methodology and the relatively small sample
size (around 500, apparently). I assume there will be more polling in the coming
days and weeks.

_______________________

Arizona immigration law: Why is it an unreasonable burden for law abiding, legal
citizens to carry proof of citizenship? In order to drive a car I must carry a
valid drivers license as well as proof of insurance. As a boat owner I have to
carry similar documents. When I traveled to Mexico last year I had to carry a
passport. I do all these things happily because it is my civic duty to obey the
laws. Why do you feel people here illegally should be exempt from obeying the
law?

Eugene Robinson: Your question doesn't quite parse. I don't feel that people
here illegally should be exempt from obeying the law. You are not required to
carry a national identity card or any other sort of document proving that you
are a citizen. There would be massive opposition to any proposal to make it
mandatory for all U.S. citizens to carry i.d. documents on their person at all
times. Yet some U.S. citizens in Arizona are being put in that position, because
if a policeman thinks they look like they might be illegal aliens, he can
challenge them to prove that they're not.

_______________________

Arizona Immigration Bill: Governor Brewer has emphasized that steps, such as
training for police forces, will be taken to prevent racial profiling and other
abuses of the law. Is this goal realistic?

Eugene Robinson: I have to admit that I laugh out loud whenever I hear Gov.
Brewer say that. The whole POINT of the law is racial profiling -- detaining and
questioning people who look like illegals, which means people who look Mexican.

_______________________

Border Security: The only way to stop the flow of people is to reduce their
incentive for coming here. That means making it much more difficult to find work
by cracking down on employers illegally hiring people. I've seen no evidence
that either party is willing to do that in a serious, sustained way. Remember
McCain telling audiences that Americans are unwilling to pick lettuce at any
wage level?

Eugene Robinson: I agree that the supply of illegal immigrant workers is chasing
the demand from employers. And no, there's hasn't been a serious attempt to
crack down on employers, with real consequences. I give credit to George W. Bush
(!) for at least trying to come up with something -- his guest-worker idea. But
it didn't fly.

_______________________

John McCain: Is it possible that John McCain's whole "Straight Talk Express" and
"Republican maverick" shtick was just an act? That what we are seeing now, and
what we saw in the 2008 election, is the real John McCain? If not, he seems
awfully quick to abandon his supposedly core beliefs.

Eugene Robinson: I'm not the only one in Washington trying to figure out just
what's up with John McCain. Is all of this to keep from getting outflanked by
J.D. Hayworth on his right? But why is he even so intent on reelection, at his
age and at this point in his career? If he wants to stay in the Senate because
there's something specific he wants to accomplish, how can he do it while at the
same time renouncing so much of what he always said he believed?

_______________________

Payoff for the bill's drafters: Saying that the Arizona law is understandable
because they face a terrible immigration crisis doesn't make sense. That's like
saying a bank robbery is understandable because the robber needs money. Urgently
needing something (money from the bank, more secure borders) does not give you
the right to commit a crime or pass a repugnant, racist law.I am particularly
furious about the corruption aspect that I have heard reported -- the provision
allowing anybody to sue police for not enforcing the law "enough," given that
FAIR, the ugly anti-immigrant lobby, specializes in such suits, stands to make a
bundle from them here, and helped write the law. Can this payola provision even
be constitutional? Suing the police for exercising their discretion as police
officers?

Eugene Robinson: Just a quick point of clarification. I wrote that it was
understandable that Arizona would try to do something -- but not that this
terrible law was in any way understandable or justifiable. I really don't
understand the provision about suing the police for not enforcing the law.
Obviously it was inserted because most police officials -- aside from the
publicity-loving sheriff, Joe Arpaio -- hate this new law and believe it will
make their jobs much, much harder.

_______________________

Big tent party?: The Republicans may never get another minority vote. With the
arc of our population being more diverse how soon will they change directions?

Eugene Robinson: It is breathtaking how short-sighted Republicans are being. It
will be very hard for the party to win national elections if it insists on
driving Latinos further into the arms of the Democrats. Just when some Latino
leaders were getting frustrated with the Obama administration for not moving
fast enough on immigration reform, here comes this Arizona law -- and once
again, the Dems, at a minimum, look like the lesser of two evils.

_______________________

E-verify: The federal E-verify program is meant to check a job applicant's
citizenship status, is 99% accurate, and is available free to any employer who
wants to use it. If it were required by law to use this tool for ALL jobs in the
US, illegals would end up self deporting en masse because there would be no jobs
available to them all of a sudden. Do you support this program, and making it's
use mandatory by all employers?

Eugene Robinson: That would have to be accompanied by immigration reform that
provided some kind of amnesty. Otherwise, employers would balk at losing valued
employees.

_______________________

College kid: First, just wanted to say I totally agree with your column. Second,
Arizona won't be getting MY tourist dollars. My parents are from India but I was
born and raised here. However, I assume that since I'm not white (and could pass
for Mexican) I could be detained in Arizona. Have you talked to any Arizona
officials about the impact this law could have on tourism? Why should I go to
the Grand Canyon if the odds of me being stopped by a sketchy police officer are
fairly high?

Eugene Robinson: Some opponents of the bill have already called on people not to
spend their tourist dollars in Arizona. Boycotts are crude instruments, and they
inflict a lot of collateral damage on innocent people. Then again, years ago, it
was the threat of a tourist boycott -- and the threat of denying Arizona the
Super Bowl -- that helped convince the state to reinstate its Martin Luther King
Day holiday.My time is up, folks. Thanks for participating, and see you again
next week.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 7, 2010 Wednesday 1:00 PM EST

Fed sues to block Arizona immigration law: The state reacts

BYLINE: Terry Greene Sterling, Journalist and Author, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 3831 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Justice Department filed suit Tuesday against Arizona, charging
that the state's new immigration law is unconstitutional and requesting a
preliminary injunction to stop the legislation from taking effect.


The Justice Department filed suit Tuesday against Arizona, charging that the
state's new immigration law is unconstitutional and requesting a preliminary
injunction to stop the legislation from taking effect.

Terry Greene Sterling, a freelance journalist who has covered immigration in
Arizona and is the author of "Illegal: Life and Death in Arizona's Immigration
War Zone," was online Wednesday, July 7, at 1 p.m. ET to discuss the lawsuit and
reaction in the state.

Sterling has reported from Phoenix for over 25 years, and was a staff writer for
the Phoenix New Times for 14 years. She is a contributor for The Daily Beast,
and Writer-in-Residence at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass
Communication at Arizona State University. She tweets @tgsterling and blogs
about immigration in Arizona at terrygreenesterling.com.

____________________

Terry Greene Sterling: Welcome.

My name is Terry Greene Sterling. I have been an Arizona journalist for about 25
years.

A bit of context: My extended family lived on both sides of the border and I
learned Spanish when I learned English. I began covering immigration in Arizona
in the early 1990s and continue covering it today. My nonfiction book, which was
published this month, tells the stories of unauthorized immigrants hunkering
down in the Phoenix area, and their friends and foes.

Arizona is the epicenter of the national immigration debate, in part because it
has passed a series of controversial immigration laws that are tested in courts
and copy-catted in other states. SB 1070, slated to take effect July 29 barring
a court injunction, is the most controversial law to date.

On Tuesday, the U.S. Department of Justice filed suit, hoping to stop the law
from taking effect.

As usual, Arizonans reacted strongly to this latest move. I am no lawyer, but I
can tell you a bit about what people here think of the law, pro and con, and how
they've reacted to the Justice department lawsuit. We can talk too, about some
of your concerns about illegal immigration, the border, and Arizona politics.

Let's chat.

_______________________

East Lansing, Mich.: Are the real issues here the crippling porverty in Mexico
and the lack of "Big Government" or really effective government that people
trust? The fact that people on both sides make a quick buck on drugs and guns
and forced labor and whatever else isn't going to be one law or another.

I mean my neighbor is staying in the USA on an expired student visa, but are you
telling [me] he's the same issue as the problems along the border of Mexico?

Terry Greene Sterling: Thanks for your thoughts on this.

About 40 percent of the approximately 10.8 unauthorized immigrants currently
thought to be in the United States entered the country with visas and then, like
your neighbor, stayed after the visas expired.

Is it better to use resources to root out drug dealers and other criminals in
the country illegally, or to spend money and manpower processing all
undocumented immigrants without regard to criminal status? This is a question
that will be debated in the Justice Department case filed against Arizona over
SB 1070.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Why doesn't the media call the Dems out a little more on what
this is...pandering to a group of people they hope to be future voters? The new
Arizona law mirrors the fed immigration law, as people's status can only be
asked once they have committed another crime. Yet, when you hear this law
debated in the media, you never hear this party? You hear things like...they can
be stopped on a street corner for nothing. This isn't true. Why doesn't the
media correct this at all?

Fact: The Arizona law mirrors the fed law. So, I get that Dems don't want to
enforce our immigration laws at all, regardless of the affect in the legal
American citizens, but how can they get away with it?

Terry Greene Sterling: Your contention that SB1070 mirrors federal immigration
law is widely disputed and will be argued in U.S. District Court in Phoenix, as
the Justice Department and others allege SB 1070 actually interferes with
federal immigration law.

_______________________

Chandler, Ariz.: I hope the ODJ challenge is successful because this law places
every law enforcement officer in the position of deciding who looks and acts
like an illegal immigrant versus who looks like and acts like an American
citizen. When they make a mistake, either way, the officer can be sued. What
will be the incentive for officers to enforce this law?

Terry Greene Sterling: Many other Arizonans, especially Latinos, share your
concern.

SB 1070 allows Arizona residents to sue the employers (counties, towns) of law
enforcement agencies for not enforcing immigration laws.

I don't believe the law allows residents to sue the actual police officer, bur
rather the employer of the police officer.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: Hello,

Do you think or feel that other countries view the U.S. as not having our act
together? I've lost a lot of respect for Obama and the U.S AG office for
pursuing this. It's just grandstanding and the world is watching.

Thank you.

Terry Greene Sterling: You've brought up a good point.

Arizona's law has offended Mexico, which filed an amicus brief in one of the
lawsuits seeking to stop SB 1070 from taking effect.

The Justice Department lawsuit alleges the Arizona law has impacted relations
between the United States and other countries.

Some say the lawsuit is grandstanding, others say it is part of a valid
constitutional fight.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: In his speech two weeks ago President Obama regularly mixed up
the terms immigrants and illegal immigrants; other than a few whackos I don't
know many who oppose immigration -- but a clear majority of the U.S. population
(if you trust the polls) oppose amnesty for illegal immigrants. Why didn't the
media call him out on this?

Terry Greene Sterling: What polls do you cite?

_______________________

Newport, R.I.: RI already has a law in place similar to Arizona's where police
officers who in the course of their duties (traffic stops, etc.) report those
who they identify as being in the country illegally. Why didn't DOJ sue R.I.
months ago? Picking on Arizona because of Republican leadership?

Terry Greene Sterling: I can't speak to the RI law, but the Arizona law makes it
a crime to be in the country illegally. Does the RI law also criminalize
immigrants for being in the country illegally? Another difference might be that
under SB 1070 Arizona law enforcement officers are required to enforce
immigration law when lawfully stopping, detaining, or arresting people they
"reasonably suspect" of being in the country illegally, when practicable. If the
law enforcement officers don't do this, the law says Arizona residents can sue
their employers, the cities and towns and counties.

_______________________

Phoenix, Ariz.: Terry -- how much would it cost to deport the undocumented
immigrant population?

Terry Greene Sterling: Ah. Good question.

Short answer, I don't know.

But you bring up a good point. The costs associated with the implementation of
this law are pretty much unknown. Proponents argue that the money saved in
educating children (US citizens and undocumented kids) of the unauthorized
immigrants will save the state money, but those who oppose the law say costs
associated with enforcing the law, processing immigrants, jailing some, would be
prohibitive. Others argue that the state would have difficulty recovering from
the recession with a diminished workforce.

_______________________

San Diego, Calif.: Saying that arresting criminals "interferes" with the
enforcement of the law is interesting legal theory. Would Arizona now be
justified in announcing that they will make no effort to arrest anyone trying to
assassinate President Obama because to do so might "interfere" with the Secret
Service?

Terry Greene Sterling: The debate as I read it centers on whether it is wise for
Arizona to criminalize economic immigrants, who aren't criminalized under
federal immigration system, or whether scant resources should be spent on going
after undocumented immigrants who commit crimes like murder, drug dealing, human
smuggling, etc.

_______________________

Pittsburgh, Pa.: If the new law goes into effect, at what point can a U.S.
citizen or legal alien living in or visiting Arizona bring charges of harassment
if s/he feels that s/he has been questioned too many times? Or is there no
redress in such cases? I can imagine some "illegal-looking" legal folks getting
really fed up after a while; I know I certainly would.

Terry Greene Sterling: In Arizona, lawsuits alleging racial profiling during the
enforcement of other state immigration laws have been filed. They're winding
their way through the courts.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Doesn't Mexico have a markedly more aggressive policy on illegal
immigrants, both in actual law and enforcement? Isn't opposition from that
country thus sort of hypocritical?

Terry Greene Sterling: You aren't alone in your thinking. Quite a few people in
Arizona agree with you.

_______________________

Re: "reasonably suspect": Ms. Sterling, the supporters of this bill claim it
doesn't allow  racial profiling, but never clearly explain the criteria law
enforcement officials are supposed to use to "reasonably  suspect" someone is in
the country illegally. Based on the  provisions of the law, how are law
enforcement officials  supposed to determine that?

Terry Greene Sterling: This is a great question. i found the answer in a
training video for the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office. In this video, Kris
Kobach, the lawyer who helped craft SB 1070, details what "reasonable suspicion"
entails. You can find that video on the website of The Arizona Republic. You'll
have to hunt around a bit, but it is there. According to the video, more than
one factor has to be considered for reasonable suspicion to occur. The factors
include demeanor, accent, appearance, location, traveling companions and a slew
of other factors. I urge you to look at the video.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Please correct people ....you must be detained for another
crime before your immigration status is asked about! There is no stopping people
on the street!

Terry Greene Sterling: As I understand it, a law enforcement officer must
lawfully stop, detain or arrest a person before reasonable suspicion kicks in.

The stop can be for violation of a city ordinance, like misusing a leaf blower,
or for a big crime, like murder.

Honestly, since the law hasn't kicked in yet, the whole stopping on the street
thing is hotly debated in Arizona. The Arizona Capitol Times recently published
a story discussing the stopping on the street issue.

_______________________

Hanover, N.H.: Newport is wrong.

Rhode Island wants to pass a law similar to Arizona but it's being debated
within the State House.

Terry Greene Sterling: I didn't know that.

_______________________

Phoenix, Ariz.: What impact has NAFTA/globalization had on immigration?

Terry Greene Sterling: Many argue that enactment of NAFTA caused a surge of
illegal immigration into Arizona from Mexico because many Mexican farmers could
not compete with low-priced American agricultural products.

_______________________

Re: "grandstanding": For what it's worth, it seems a little inconsistent to
accuse  the Obama administration of "grandstanding" with this suit  and also
cite that most poll respondents support the bill.  Who grandstands by doing
something that most people  oppose?

Terry Greene Sterling: That is an interesting point.

Many believe the constitutional issues need to be resolved in court.

_______________________

Phoenix, Ariz.: Do the illegal immigrants you interviewed for your book care
that they are breaking the law?

Terry Greene Sterling: Yes.

_______________________

Just curious: Since there seems to be financial liability for employers of
police officers, i.e., towns and the state force, won't that compel officers to
go above and beyond in a way that could court a different kind of lawsuit?
Arizona already spends quite a bit of $$ paying out to mistreated prisoners in
the Arpaio tent system.

Terry Greene Sterling: In Arizona, many law enforcement officers take offense to
the idea that they will racially profile while enforcing SB 1070. They say they
know their business and wouldn't do this.

Some lawsuits alleging racial profiling by law enforcement officers enforcing
other Arizona immigration laws are currently winding their way through the
courts.

And yes, it is expensive.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Ms. Sterling, I throw this question out to those supporting  the
Arizona bill but also to you based on your reporting and  interviews with
similar people. What is an acceptable level of  illegal immigration for these
people? None? Much lower  than current totals? How far should the federal
government  go, in terms of financial, legal and human resources, to reach  that
level?

Terry Greene Sterling: You've gotten to the heart of the immigration debate.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform would argue that very low levels
of immigration are acceptable. The proponents of comprehensive immigration
reform argue that a flexible system that responds to the changing needs of
employers would be best.

Most groups in this debate agree that illegal immigration is not acceptable.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Read Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council, 530 US 363
(2000): State law is preempted by Federal law if Federal law was intended to
"occupy the field" of the law -- if its sphere of influence was meant to be
primary, like the National Labor Relations Act. What this means is that even if
Arizona law and Federal law were identical (which they are not), Arizona still
cannot enforce their own immigration law. People who say that Arizona should
enforce Federal law when the Federal Government chooses not to do not know what
they are talking about.

Terry Greene Sterling: An interesting point, and I'm sure it will be argued in
the federal courts.

_______________________

Mt. Rainier, Md.: Arizona enforcing federal immigration law? Why is it that no
one else seems to get how bizarre this is? What's next -- Arizona wants to pass
laws regarding international trade, wants to boycott goods coming from specific
countries, wants to form an international treaty with Uzbekistan? How about
Arizona creates its own Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or enlists its citizens
in the Arizona Air Force?

Terry Greene Sterling: A good many Arizonans agree with you.

_______________________

Phoenix, Ariz.: I think it's important to say to the rest of the country that
SB1070 didn't come from a vacuum -- it's an issue that's been simmering for 30
years now. And, a reminder that strong border and drug enforcement in other
states have funneled the immigration and violent cartel traffic through the
Arizona corridor. Arizona is taking a punch that other states aren't. SB1070 is
a badly thought-out reaction to that.

Terry Greene Sterling: Thanks for the context. We shouldn't forget that illegal
immigration has been "funneled' through the Tucson Sector by strong enforcement
policies in Texas and California.

Drug violence is rampant in Mexico, with more than 23,000 dead since Calderon
unleashed the Army on the cartels in, I believe, 2006.

Many politicians say the Arizona border is increasingly violent, but FBI
statistics and DHS data do not substantiate those claims.

_______________________

Out West: I've read a couple of places that Arizona is planning to debate a bill
that will deny birth certificates to children born in the U.S. whose parents are
illegal immigrants. Is that true? Not being a lawyer, how would they reconcile
that with the Constitution?

By the way, I hope it's only ridiculous rumor.

Terry Greene Sterling: It is not a ridiculous rumor.

State Sen. Russell Pearce, who sponsored SB 1070, announced that he is
considering sponsoring legislation that will deprive children born in Arizona of
birth certificates if one or both parents are unauthorized immigrants.

Get ready for another court battle on this one, if it passes.

_______________________

Differences: Should we distinguish between illegal immigrants that come in to
the states to work and people that come here to smuggle drugs and people in and
money and guns out? I know that it's all illegal but shouldn't more emphasis be
placed on dangerous criminals?

Terry Greene Sterling: Again, this is at the center of a key disagreement over
Arizona's law, which criminalizes unauthorized immigrants for being in Arizona.

The Justice Department and others argue that the law interferes with federal
policy focusing on the bad guys, like drug smugglers and human smugglers and
murderers, and not on the economic immigrant who would be ensnared in the 1070
web.

_______________________

New Haven, Conn.: Why has Arizona become the main gateway for illegal entry into
the U.S. Why not Texas, or New Mexico or California?

Terry Greene Sterling: Arizona is the main gateway for illegal immigration
because enforcement of the border in Texas and California "squeezed" immigration
through Arizona.

_______________________

Maryland: I have long suspected that Arizona's law is really a proxy for bashing
Hispanics regardless of their immigration status, and not just because Gov.
Brewer makes the racist claim that most illegal immigrants from Mexico are drug
mules. Most of the supporters I've met rant about the U.S. being increasingly
Hispanicizied, or about becoming a minority themselves.

Despite all the safeguards allegedly built into the law, it will amount to
police stopping anyone who looks Hispanic. It's not unreasonable suspect that
the subconscious intent of the law is to make Arizona less hospitable for
Hispanics, even ones whose ancestors lived there before there was a United
States, and it's also not unreasonable to foresee a return to the sundown town
days except with a different target.

Even if we take the Arizona politicians at their word that they want stronger
enforcement for immigration, do you think they're taking the wrong approach by
focusing on the illegals themselves? My stance is that no amount of border
security will be effective enough. Instead, we should crack down on the
employers who hire (read: exploit) illegal immigrants, relax the quotas for
legal immigration and make it easier to obtain citizens. Would you support such
a strategy?

Terry Greene Sterling: What always amazes me about Arizona is the difference in
the ways SB 1070 is perceived by Hispanics and non-Hispanics. Many Anglos don't
see what the big deal is, while U.S. citizens of Hispanic origin are deeply
wounded and offended by this law. They liken Arizona to Alabama during the civil
rights battles of the 1960s.

I see SB 1070 as emblematic of a fight for America's identity.

_______________________

Squeeze?: "...Texas and California "squeezed" immigration through Arizona."

So why can't we use the same techniques to squeeze and eventually shut down
illegal immigration through AZ? How many of the 1200 Nation Guard troops
promised by the President are on duty in AZ?

Terry Greene Sterling: Good question.

DHS contends border is more secure now than it has ever been. Illegal
immigration is down overall. So one argument is that enforcement is already
taking place.

_______________________

Tampa, FL: To me, undocumented workers are invitees, here at the  clear request
of American business. Our nation's  business establishment has hung a giant sign
at the  border that reads "Help Wanted, Apply Within, No  Questions Asked" (in
Spanish, of course). There will be  no progress on the alleged problem of
undocumented  workers until that signs comes down.

In the meantime, I can't blame them for coming here. I  can blame the businesses
that hire them: agriculture,  construction, hotels, restaurants, cleaning, just
to name  to biggest employers of undocumented workers.

It's real simple: Hire them and they will come.

So tell me: how aggressively does Arizona go after  employers of undocumented
workers? Does Sheriff Joe  Arpaio go after them?

Terry Greene Sterling: Arizona's Employer Sanctions Act to my knowledge has only
slapped the wrists of two employers, one of which no longer did business in
Arizona. But the law has been used by the Maricopa County Sheriff to conduct
raids of businesess, and arrest undocumented workers. The workers are charged
with felonies stemming from not having valid papers, and serve time in jail.
They then contest their removal from USA or sign papers agreeing to removal.

_______________________

WDC: Crossing the border without authorization is a misdemeanor, not a felony.
This act is equivalent to being charged with public intoxication. So, folks need
to realize that in the eyes of the law, crossing the border and entering without
inspection is not really that big of a deal.

Terry Greene Sterling: Good point.

_______________________

FBI/DHS?: "...FBI statistics and DHS data do not substantiate those claims." You
live in AZ -- how dangerous is the border area? What about the warning signs
posted by DHS warning that the border area was dangerous?

Terry Greene Sterling: The claims of violence in Arizona's borderlands don't
square with the data. This is not to say there isn't violence in the
borderlands. The point is, reports of beheadings and drug cartel violence are
not substantiated in the crime data.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Here's the training video Terry referenced above.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Dear Ms. Greene --

I have several questions about the Arizona Law that I have not seen/heard the
MSM address. - Under the Arizona law, if I am stopped and asked about my status
and I say, I am a U.S. citizen, will the officer say, "Thank you sir, have a
nice day," or will I have to prove it? I (and I think most other citizens)
normally don't carry proof of citizenship with them when they go out.

- What is the nature of reciprocity here, i.e., if I were to enter Mexico
illegally and asked Arizona-type questions, what would happen to me?

- (and last) Do illegal immigrants typically carry no documents of any kind, or
do they tend to carry passports from their home country?

Thanks

Terry Greene Sterling: The officer would have to have reasonable suspicion that
you are not a US citizen before he asks for your documents.

In Arizona, most undocumented immigrants are Mexicans, and they typically carry
their Mexican ID cards that they get from the consulate, and Mexican driver
licenses.

_______________________

Terry Greene Sterling: Thanks for joining me. We had a good number of questions,
and our time ran out before I could chat with all of you.

I'm signing off now.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 19, 2010 Monday 7:19 AM EST

Wonkbook: BP cap test ambiguous; GOP fights for Arizona law; job retraining
fails

BYLINE: Ezra Klein

LENGTH: 2070 words



HIGHLIGHT: Coast Guard commandant Thad Allen says the BP oil cap's success is
not certain yet; Republican members of Congress are pushing legislation that
would halt the Justice Department's challenge to Arizona's immigration law; the
market says California and Illinois are likelier to default than Portugal; job
retraining doesn't appear to be working; and, in the day's most depressing
story, wait till you hear the three words Harry Reid won't say aloud.


Coast Guard commandant Thad Allen says the BP oil cap's success is not certain
yet; Republican members of Congress are pushing legislation that would halt the
Justice Department's challenge to Arizona's immigration law; the market says
California and Illinois are likelier to default than Portugal; job retraining
doesn't appear to be working; and, in the day's most depressing story, wait till
you hear the three words Harry Reid won't say aloud.

It's Monday. Welcome to Wonkbook.

Top Stories

The administration is noting concerning signs from BP's new oil well cap,
reports David Fahrenthold: "A day that seemed destined for success ended in
ambiguity Sunday. The blown-out well at the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico
remained shut for the fourth day, but the national incident commander reported
concerns about seepage around the well and ordered BP to improve its monitoring
of possible problems. A seep would be a serious setback if it indicated oil or
gas escaping from the capped well and burbling up through the seafloor."

Congressional Republicans are attempting to block the Justice Department's
lawsuit against Arizona's immigration law, reports Scott Wong: "This week, Sens.
Jim DeMint of South Carolina and David Vitter of Louisiana introduced
legislation that would block the Obama administration from suing Arizona over
its new law to crack down on illegal immigration. Sen. John McCain of Arizona
donated $5,000 to a legal defense fund to fight challenges to the law. And the
GOP-dominated House Immigration Reform Caucus will file a friend of the court
brief early next week, backing Republican Gov. Jan Brewer as she seeks to defend
the law from a Justice Department lawsuit."

The market thinks Illinois and California are more likely to default than
Portugal, writes Peter Coy: "According to investors in credit default swaps, an
insurance-like derivative, as of July 13, Illinois and California are greater
credit risks than Portugal. Michigan, New York, and New Jersey are deemed a bit
better than Portugal but still chancier than Ireland and Spain, indebted
weaklings of the single-currency euro zone."

Job training isn't helping the unemployed, reports Peter Goodman: "A study
conducted for the Labor Department tracking the experience of 160,000 laid-off
workers in 12 states from mid-2003 to mid-2005 -- a time of economic expansion
-- found that those who went through training wound up earning little more than
those who did not, even three and four years later. 'Over all, it appears
possible that ultimate gains from participation are small or nonexistent,' the
study concluded."

Indie interlude: Cut Copy's "Where I'm Going".

Still to come: Towards a 'green' measure of GDP; The New Yorker's John Casside
profiles Paul Volcker; Krugman lays down blame for the midterms; the DISCLOSE
Act's Senate prospects are dimming; a baby tries to eat his way out of a
watermelon; and the three words Harry Reid refuses to say out loud.

Economy/ FinReg

Inflation is far below the Fed's target: http://bit.ly/b2erZU

Paul Krugman argues that the administration's early stimulus decisions are to
blame for their current economic woes: "The best way for Mr. Obama to have
avoided an electoral setback this fall would have been enacting a stimulus that
matched the scale of the economic crisis. Obviously, he didn't do that. Maybe he
couldn't have passed an adequate-sized plan, but the fact is that he didn't even
try. True, senior economic officials reportedly downplayed the need for a really
big effort, in effect overruling their staff; but it's also clear that political
advisers believed that a smaller package would get more friendly headlines, and
that the administration would look better if it won its first big Congressional
test."

Obama's agenda is pro-business, argues Roger Altman: http://nyti.ms/b21TSE

John Cassidy profiles Paul Volcker: "Volcker retired from the Fed in 1987, and
during the latter years of the tenure of his successor, Alan Greenspan, he was
widely regarded as an out-of-touch fuddy-duddy. In the previous six months,
however, he had emerged as a de-facto arbitrator for the various factions
involved in financial reform: the lobbyists, the politicians, and the
public-interest advocates. Barney Frank, the Democratic congressman from
Massachusetts, who helped lead the process of reconciling the House and Senate
bills, told me in late May, "When the banks come to me opposing various things,
I say to them, 'If I were you, I would go and see Paul Volcker. If you can
persuade him, you might have a chance. I think you are not going to see anything
in this bill that Paul objects to.'"

Wall Street is feeling optimistic after the Goldman settlement:
http://nyti.ms/bqyziN

The inspector general for TARP is criticizing the administration's push to close
auto dealerships following the GM and Chrysler bailouts, reports Tom Barkley:
"'Treasury made a series of decisions that may have substantially contributed to
the accelerated shuttering of thousands of small businesses and thereby
potentially adding tens of thousands of workers to the already lengthy
unemployment rolls -- all based on a theory and without sufficient consideration
of the decisions' broader economic impact,' said the 45-page report."

Expired unemployment benefits leave some former workers without any income at
all: http://nyti.ms/94N1d0

Tyler Cowen thinks the US can learn about debt from Germany: "Amid the sluggish
economies of much of Europe, Germany has booming exports and is nearing full
capacity utilization. And many of its workers are postponing vacations to
produce, and earn, more. The unemployment rate in Germany is 7.5 percent --
below that of the United States -- and falling...many investors consider German
bonds a haven, in part because the government has a reputation for addressing
fiscal issues promptly and responsibly. It is working to cut government
spending, although not in crucial long-term areas of research and education."

States are cracking down on consumers borrowing on their car titles:
http://bit.ly/9hVjn6

Alan Blinder argues for funding fiscal stimulus with the Bush tax cuts: "Let the
upper-income tax cuts expire on schedule at year end. That would save the
government an estimated $75 billion over the next two years. However, it would
also diminish aggregate demand a bit. So, instead of using the $75 billion to
reduce the deficit, spend it on unemployment benefits, food stamps and the like
for two years...The budgetary trade I just recommended would add almost $100
billion to aggregate demand over the next two years--without adding a dime to
the deficit. That translates to about 500,000 more jobs each year."

Adorable children being adorable interlude: A baby tries to eat his way out of a
watermelon.

Domestic Policy

The DISCLOSE Act does not appear to have the votes in the Senate, reports
Meredith Shiner: "Snowe, who has joined Democrats on major legislation such as
Wall Street reform and temporary unemployment extensions, added that while she
has begun to review the campaign finance language, changes would be required
before she could support it...With Brown's firm rejection of the bill and
Snowe's hesitations, the bill that Democrats say is 'vital' to pass could have
to wait until September - or even a lame duck session for Senate floor time."

Evangelicals are allying with Obama on immigration: http://nyti.ms/bUXXmx

In response to health care reform, insurers are pushing plans that limit doctor
choice, reports Reed Abelson: "The size of these networks is typically much
smaller than traditional plans. In New York, for example, Aetna offers a
narrow-network plan that has about half the doctors and two-thirds of the
hospitals the insurer typically offers. People enrolled in this plan are covered
only if they go to a doctor or hospital within the network, but insurers are
also experimenting with plans that allow a patient to see someone outside the
network but pay much more than they would in a traditional plan offering
out-of-network benefits."

Massachusetts' hasn't managed to truly control health-care costs, writes Robert
Samuelson: "State leaders have proved powerless to control these costs. Facing a
tough reelection campaign, Gov. Deval Patrick effectively ordered his insurance
commissioner to reject premium increases for small employers (50 workers or
fewer) and individuals -- an unprecedented step. Commissioner Joseph Murphy then
disallowed premium increases ranging from 7 percent to 34 percent. The insurers
appealed; hearing examiners ruled Murphy's action illegal. Murphy has now
settled with one insurer allowing premium increases, he says, of 7 to 11
percent."

The administration's defense of the individual mandate in court classifies it as
a tax, reports Robert Pear: "The law describes the levy on the uninsured as a
'penalty' rather than a tax. The Justice Department brushes aside the
distinction, saying 'the statutory label' does not matter. The constitutionality
of a tax law depends on 'its practical operation,' not the precise form of words
used to describe it, the department says, citing a long line of Supreme Court
cases."

Pete Vanderveen argues that pharmacists can help fill the doctor shortage:
http://bit.ly/d9BAMx

Peter Schrag argues that strengthening the US-Mexico border will only increase
the presence of permanent illegal immigrants: "Princeton University sociologist
Douglas Massey pointed out nearly a decade ago that measures to secure the
border seemed to produce almost the opposite of what was intended. By making the
northward crossing more dangerous and expensive, Massey and co-authors Jorge
Durand and Nolan J. Malone wrote in 2002, the border buildup discouraged
seasonal laborers from going back to Mexico when they were not working."

The government is behind the curve on patents, writes Gordon Crovitz: "It will
take real work to distinguish among different industries and determine what
types of patents would best promote what the Constitution calls "the Progress of
Science and useful Arts." The pharmaceutical industry, which must invest
fortunes to clear regulatory hurdles for new drugs, needs a different approach
to patents than do software companies. The "machine or transformation" test that
courts crafted doesn't provide clear guidance for digital innovations of
software code that sometimes lead to a new physical object and sometimes don't.
[But] Congress has punted on its task.

Stop motion interlude: The best wall painting animation you'll ever see.

Energy

Harry Reid refuses to use the words "cap-and-trade," reports Darrel Samuelsohn:
"Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid played dumb last week when a reporter asked
him if the energy and climate bill headed to the floor would come with a 'cap'
on greenhouse gas emissions. 'I don't use that,' the Nevada Democrat replied.
'Those words are not in my vocabulary. We're going to work on pollution.'"

There are reasons to believe the Gulf can recover environmentally:
http://nyti.ms/cJm5Cg

Kenneth Feinberg explains the BP recovery fund he heads to Gulf residents,
reports John Schwartz: "It begins with the relatively easy process of getting
emergency payments, available without obligation to eligible claimants who can
prove their losses, up to six months' worth of damages at a time. (BP has paid
out more than $200 million from 36 claims offices to more than 32,000 claimants
so far.) Then, 90 days after the well is finally plugged, comes the tougher
phase of the three-year program: negotiating with each claimant for the lump sum
to cover economic losses from the spill. Those who accept the payment will have
to sign a waiver stating that they will not sue BP."

West Virginia's new senator opposes cap-and-trade: http://politi.co/dufVtL

The losses incurred by oil spills show the shortcomings of purely economic
measures of well-being, writes Wayne Arnold: "Some Asian governments, China's
included, have been trying to recalibrate gross domestic product to include the
cost of growth to the environment, creating a green gross domestic product. Such
efforts, said Mr. Tan, the Nanyang professor, have been frustrated by the
difficulty in determining the future cost of environmental destruction. "

Bobby Jindal argues the deep-water drilling ban hurts residents of the Gulf more
than it helps: http://bit.ly/a7nKTk

Closing credits: Wonkbook compiled with the help of Dylan Matthews and Mike
Shepard.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      July 28, 2010 Wednesday 3:00 PM EST

Judge blocks key parts of Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: Paul Virtue, Fmr. General Counsel, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1769 words



HIGHLIGHT: A federal judge on Wednesday blocked the most controversial parts of
Arizona's immigration law from taking effect, delivering a last-minute victory
to opponents of the crackdown.


A federal judge on Wednesday blocked the most controversial parts of Arizona's
immigration law from taking effect, delivering a last-minute victory to
opponents of the crackdown.

The overall law will still take effect Thursday, but without the provisions that
angered opponents -- including sections that required officers to check a
person's immigration status while enforcing other laws and provisions that
required immigrants to carry their papers at all times.

Paul Virtue, former general counsel at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service, was online Wednesday, July 28, at 3 p.m. ET to discuss the
ramifications of the judge's action one day before the new law takes effect.

____________________

Paul Virtue: Hi. My name is Paul Virtue. I am a partner at Baker & MCKenzie and
former INS General Counsel.  I am happy to take your questions on today's
decision by Judge Bolton.

_______________________

Temple Hills, MD: What are the chances the 9th Circuit picks this case up on
appeal? My understanding is that she threw out the part which compelled police
officers to ask everyone about their immigration law but did not say the cops
could not ask.

Paul Virtue: The judge enjoined those sections likely to be found later to be
unconstitutional, including the porvision requiring establishement of
immigration status before releasing someone suspected of being unlawful. If the
injunction is challenged I believe it will be upheld.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: What's the next step for the law? Where does it go from here?

Paul Virtue: The judge has enjoined 4 sections of the law. The remainder will
become effective tomorrow. The sections enjoined are those requiring
determination of status of people arrested, the crime for failure to carry
documents, the crime for working without authorization and the warrantless
arrest of a person suspected of having committed a deportable offense.

_______________________

Nashville, Tennessee: What about the other states (like Tennessee) that are
moving to copy the Arizona law? Will this chill those efforts?

Paul Virtue: States considering similar laws have ben and will continue to watch
this case with interest. I suspect the injunction will cause those states to
rethink efforts to enact provisions similar to the four that were enjoined.

_______________________

Huntsville, AL: Why would immigration reform solve anything? Wouldn't it just
encourage more illegals here for free health care and welfare benefits for
anchor babies? This ruling is a democrat activist judge promoting amnesty with a
total disregard for public safety.

Paul Virtue: The judge explicitly declined to enjoin those provisions directed
at public safety. members of Congress from both parties seem to agree that
something must be done at the federal level to address the undocumented
population, but disagree significantly on the right answer. An earned amnesty
may be part of that solution, but only if coupled with the political will to
strengthen the borders and revise the legal immigration system.

_______________________

Scottsdale, Arizona: What implications do you think this temporary injunction
will have on the various boycotts of Arizona?

Paul Virtue: The judge would seem to have enjoined the most controversial
provisions of the law. I think we will have to wait and see how opponents of the
law react to this ruling.

_______________________

Arlington, VA: All of the so-called "controversial" provisions of this law are
identical to the Federal law. If you are detained for another crime, your
immigration status can be questioned. If you are here on a visa, you must carry
your papers (federal law). So this law was basically the Federal law at a state
level. If an American is in Mexico, he isn't only not allowed to work, he must
have his papers on him at all time. So, why would we have different laws?

Paul Virtue: The question before the judge today was whether the US is likely to
prove its claim that federal law preempts the state law provisions. In the four
areas she enjoined the judge is saying, yes, these will likely be found
unconstitutional because they are the exclusive dominion of Congress.

_______________________

Washington, DC: Will the federal government take any action to address the
underlying issues related to immigration?

Paul Virtue: That is a very good question. Those of us who practice in this area
and who have an interest in public policy certainly hope so. But make no
mistake, it is a politically difficult issue to tackle.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: A Sheriff in Arizona stated he will have his Deputies undergo a
sweep for illegal immigrants, regardless of the outcome of this court decision.
Is this sweep now illegal under Federal law?

Paul Virtue: If the sweep is focused on the state crimes of harboring or
transporting undocumented aliens it would be lawful under this ruling. If just
focused on illegal status or working without authorization, likely not.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: The provisions of the law struck down are all included in the
Fed law. If you are stopped for another crime, your status can be questioned.
You must have your papers on you at all time...that is fed law.

So, is this judge saying the current laws we have on the books, which as we all
know aren't being enforced, are unconstitutional?

Paul Virtue: No, the judge is saying that federal law has "occupied the field"
on this particular issue and so is unconstitutional under the Supremacy clause.
The federal law on this issue continues to be valid.

_______________________

Philadelphia, Pa.: In sum, what portions of the law become effective tomorrow?
What do they do?

Paul Virtue: SB 1070 was an amalgamation of amendments to existing law as well
as some new provisions. Only four sections have been enjoined, the others, for
example, the crime of stopping in traffic to pick up day laborers will become
effective.

_______________________

Philadelphia, Pa.: I haven't read the decision, but does it reaffirm that states
cannot unilaterally make decisions on immigration and even foreign policy which
are reserved for the Federal government?

Paul Virtue: Yes, that is effectively is exactly what the judge is sayig in
enjoining those four sections of the law.

_______________________

Woodbridge, VA: What was the law or precedent used to overturn Arizona's law?
And can it be stayed? I'm hoping that Virginia and the other 48 states follow
Arizona's common-sense lead and enact similar legislation.

Thanks

Paul Virtue: The court looked to the supremacy clause of the US constitution
"The US Constitution shall be the supreme law of the land, the constitutions of
the individual states notwithstanding" to find that federal law is supreme on
the sections covered by her injunction. The injunction could be stayed by the
ninth circuit court of appeals if AZ takes an appeal.

_______________________

Potomac, Md.: What is the jurisdictional authority for state laws concerning
immigration issues? Does the federal government have exclusive jurisdiction in
this area?

Paul Virtue: The judge has said that the federal government has exclusive
authority on issues related to immigration. Thos sections she declined to enjoin
(the majority) also serve a state purpose and are not attempts to regulate
immigration.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Can Arizona pass a law requiring all citizens to carry a state
identification card (driver's license or DMV ID card) and then require proof of
legal residency before issuing that card? Sure, people will call them Nazis, but
they've been doing that already. Has the Supreme Court ruled that states can't
require proof of state ID in sweeps like drunk driver road blocks that are
legal?

Paul Virtue: The courts have upheld statutes that require prove of legal
residence for the issuance of drivers licenses.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: What options do states like Arizona have now after this
ruling? Tensions are clearly high and some would argue that the federal
government is not taking charge of the issue. So what happens next, in your
opinion?

Paul Virtue: Judge Bolton's decision will not necessarily be the final answer.
This is only a preliminary injunction. The court still has to rule on the merits
of the challenge and there likely will be appeals. On thos issue found to fall
exclusively in Congress' jurisdiction the states and constituents will have to
prevail on their elected representatives to take action.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: Economics project we may have a shortfall of several tens of
millions of wage earners that will be needed to keep our economy growing. Do you
see any change in the public mood which seems to wish to restrict immigration to
realizing we may need to seek to increase immigration of wage earners to keep
our country's economy strong?

Paul Virtue: I don't foresee a change in the public mood as long as we are in
such a difficult economy, but I can ceratinly see a change as the economic
picture changes. Surveys project that some 7 million members of the current
workforce are undocumented.

_______________________

Seligman, MO: Is it just me or does this ruling appear poorly written? On one
hand statement is made that the law would have created a drain on federal
resources through the validation and deportation process. On the other the
federal government is already not actively (more passively) enforcing the
federal regulation of immigration. However later in the ruling we are to
apparently take separate the value that appears later in the ruling that says
"Any person who is arrested shall have the person's immigration status
determined before the person is released.". So either way the law diverts
federal funds. Your thoughts?

Paul Virtue: I thought the judge did a good job of applying the "likely to
prevail and irreparable harm" standards for a preliminary injunction and focused
on enjoining only those sections which seem most likely to be found to be the
exclusive province of the Congress. Diversion of federal funds by one state
would be significant, but imagine the impact if all states adopted their own
(slightly different) immigration policies.

_______________________

Paul Virtue: Thank you all so much for participating and for your interest in
this important issue. I enjoyed taking your questions.

Paul Virtue

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 29, 2010 Thursday 7:24 AM EST

Wonkbook: Arizona bill blocked; Fannie/Freddie reform coming; feds lose Gulf oil

BYLINE: Ezra Klein

LENGTH: 2067 words



HIGHLIGHT: A judge has blocked key provisions of the Arizona immigration law as
it was slated to take effect today; the White House is preparing for an overhaul
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac next year; it's not clear whether our recovery is
in a rough patch or our rough patch was interrupted by a few months of something
we mistook for recovery; and the federal government cannot account for most of
the oil lost in the Gulf spill.


A judge has blocked key provisions of the Arizona immigration law as it was
slated to take effect today; the White House is preparing for an overhaul of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac next year; it's not clear whether our recovery is in
a rough patch or our rough patch was interrupted by a few months of something we
mistook for recovery; and the federal government cannot account for most of the
oil lost in the Gulf spill.

Welcome to Wonkbook.

Top Stories

A judge has issued a stay on some of the more controversial provisions of the
Arizona immigration law, report Stephanie McCrummen and William Branigin: "U.S.
District Judge Susan R. Bolton ruled that the injunction would apply to the
portion of the state law that requires police to try to determine the
immigration status of a person they arrest, stop or detain while enforcing other
laws if they reasonably suspect the person is in the United States
illegally...Also put on hold were parts of the law requiring foreigners to apply
for or carry certain documents, making it a state crime for undocumented workers
'to solicit, apply for or perform work,' and mandating verification of the
immigration status of any arrested person prior to release, the ruling said."

The past decade is the hottest on record: http://bit.ly/9G7XpD

The White House is preparing to reform Fannie and Freddie next year, reports
Zachary Goldfarb: "'We want the private sector back in,' said another
administration official, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity. 'There
are signs, but it's very minor, I have to say.' Jeffrey Goldstein, under
secretary for domestic finance at the Treasury, wrote in an essay on the White
House Web site Tuesday that it will be very difficult to totally unwind the
government's role in covering losses related to the housing crisis."

It's hard to say whether we're in a rough patch of the recovery or something
more problematic, reports Neil Irwin: "Just Wednesday, the government announced
a surprising 1 percent drop in June orders for durable goods and a compilation
of anecdotal reports from around the country by the Federal Reserve showed a
recovery that is increasingly uneven. This fit into the pattern of recent
economic indicators showing that the transition to a self-sustaining recovery
has been rocky. Fits and starts are common during early stages of economic
expansion. Before long, it should be clear whether the summer of 2010 has indeed
been a mere soft patch as recovery took hold."

Most oil leaked into the Gulf is still unaccounted for, report David Fahrenthold
and Leslie Tamura: "Up to 4 million barrels (167 million gallons), the vast
majority of the spill, remains unaccounted for in government statistics. Some of
it has, most likely, been cleaned up by nature. Other amounts may be gone from
the water, but they could have taken on a second life as contaminants in the
air, or in landfills around the Gulf Coast...Relying on the latest estimate of
the leak's total volume -- 60,000 barrels (2.5 million gallons) per day, at most
-- then 5.2 million barrels may have escaped over 86 days. Of that, about 1.2
million barrels were either siphoned, burned or skimmed."

Singer-songwriter interlude: Jesca Hoop's "Feast of the Heart".

Still to come: Stimulus funds are going directly to private jobs; the energy
bill runs into problems with its natural gas provisions; Olympia Snowe will back
Elena Kagan's nomination; and the trailer for Titanic II, a real movie.

Economy/ FinReg

States are using stimulus funds to pay private salaries, reports Catherine
Rampell: "About 247,000 workers will have been placed in these subsidized jobs
by the end of September, according to the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a research organization. The jobs cover everything from
assembly-line work to white-collar positions like business development, and
typically pay $8 to $15 an hour, according to LaDonna Pavetti, a director at the
center. There are exceptions: San Francisco, for example, pays up to $74,000 in
annual salary, which employers can also supplement with additional pay."

The IMF is tempering its criticism of China's currency policy:
http://bit.ly/co3OnC

Elizabeth Warren's GOP colleagues on the TARP oversight panel offered praise for
her tenure, reports Brady Dennis: "the two men said they were troubled by recent
reports that Warren's work on the oversight panel, namely the criticisms of
Treasury contained in its reports, might hinder her chances as a candidate to
direct the new consumer bureau. 'In our view,' McWatters wrote, 'such a
proposition would besmirch the integrity and creditability of the panel as well
as the critical and fundamental role of independent oversight. What point is
there in having a watchdog that is a blind supporter of, or an apologist for,
the subject of its oversight?'"

Obama is beginning a renewed push for a small business loan package:
http://bit.ly/9hYJAF

The SEC will not allow a refight of the principle behind FinReg, reports Fred
Barbash: "Schapiro said, 'The regulatory process is not designed to redebate
issues that Congress has resolved. Rather, investors, leaders of small and large
businesses, academics and others who identify issues, and who offer ideas and
alternatives, can help us create a regulatory structure that supports our shared
goals over the long term.'"

Casey Mulligan argues the house buyer's tax credit's effect has been minimal:
http://nyti.ms/c0SnhI

David Wessel considers the Obama administration's options before the Bush tax
cuts expire at year's end: "And then there's the deficit. Raising taxes on the
over-$250,000 crowd isn't going to cure it. The price tag on the Obama-backed
extension of Mr. Bush's middle-class tax cuts and stopping the alternative
minimum tax from reaching down into the middle class is $2.5 trillion over 10
years, the Joint Tax Committee says. Unofficial estimates circulating on Capitol
Hill say that's about 85% of the price tag for extendingall the Bush tax cuts."

Peter Orszag's legacy will be prying budget authority from the legislature and
to the executive, writes Matt Bai: "Mr. Orszag has promoted and carried out an
effort by the White House to pry away from Congress some of the responsibility
for making hard decisions, especially when it comes to the budget. In the
process, he has signaled that an administration populated from the top down by
Capitol Hill alumni is intent on altering the balance of power between the
branches of government."

Matt Miller thinks the deficit commission's proposed 21% of GDP spending limit
is too small: "As a matter of math, if you run the government at a smaller level
than did Ronald Reagan while accommodating this massive increase in the number
of seniors on our health and pension programs, you have to decimate the rest of
the budget. That's especially the case when you consider that health costs in
the Reagan era were around 10 percent of GDP, while they're now 17 percent,
headed toward 20."

Late Night Interlude: Kristen Schaal on The Late Show.

Energy

A dispute over natural gas production is causing problems for the energy bill,
reports Coral Davenport: "Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) added the
language Tuesday requiring natural gas drillers to disclose the chemicals they
pump into the ground as part of the hydraulic fracturing, or hydrofracking,
process...Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma said the new requirements could
effectively end onshore natural gas production. He noted that some states
already have hydrofracking safety and disclosure regulations but that making the
requirements national would freeze the industry."

Senators have no incentive to act responsibly on climate change, writes Stephen
Stromberg: "Senators from coal states and the South worried that their regions
would be disproportionately hurt. The effects of climate change won't be dire
for years; and Congress, with its frequent elections, isn't good at accepting
short-term pain for long-term gain. With few exceptions, Republicans have
behaved shamefully on climate issues in this Congress, opposing policies that
their party embraced in the 1990s (think cap-and-trade). Yet none of them will
pay a price in November, and many GOP challengers will benefit."

Over a million gallons have escaped from the Michigan oil spill:
http://bit.ly/cGkrkZ

Brad Plumer previews the cap and trade system going into effect among Western
states: "This cap would be the real thing, covering most large industrial
facilities as well as the transportation sector (that last is probably the
biggest source of emissions in most of these states, which aren't particularly
coal-heavy, and transport wouldn't get regulated until 2015). All told, the
program would aim to cut overall emissions in the five participating
states/provinces 15 percent by 2020--roughly in line with the U.S. Copenhagen
goals."

Jeffrey Sachs argues Obama should go straight to the public on climate change:
"The Obama administration should have tried - and should still try - an
alternative approach. Instead of negotiating with vested interests in the
backrooms of the White House and Congress, Obama should present a coherent plan
to the American people. He should propose a sound strategy over the next 20
years for reducing America's dependence on fossil fuels, converting to electric
vehicles, and expanding non-carbon energy sources such as solar and wind power.
He could then present an estimated price tag for phasing in these changes over
time, and demonstrate that the costs would be modest compared to the enormous
benefits."

Daniel Gross thinks electric car prices will go down quickly:
http://bit.ly/cPr3cc

Questionable movie sequels interlude: The trailer for Titanic II.

Domestic Policy

Olympia Snowe is the fourth GOP senator to back Elena Kagan's nomination,
reports Julie Hirschfield Davis: "Snowe says Kagan has met her standards for a
justice with her strong intellect, respect for the rule of law and understanding
of the Supreme Court's important but limited role. She also says endorsements
from conservative lawyers show that Kagan has a reputation for a sound judicial
temperament. Democrats have more than enough votes to confirm Kagan in a vote
expected next week."

A quarter of law enforcement-aided deportations come from one county in Arizona:
http://bit.ly/djnEqb

Republicans are warning the Department of Homeland Security to not use executive
powers to allow illegal immigrants to stay, reports Scott Wong: "The Homeland
Security Department has maintained it has the authority to grant extensions to
those who are in the country illegally "based on the merits of cases," but again
emphasized that there are no plans to grant blanket amnesty to the estimated 11
million undocumented immigrants."

Six House members staged a sit-in on the Senate floor to protest Senate
inaction: http://politi.co/bLI8cJ

David Leonhardt argues investing in early childhood education reaps huge
dividends: "Just as in other studies, the Tennessee experiment found that some
teachers were able to help students learn vastly more than other teachers. And
just as in other studies, the effect largely disappeared by junior high, based
on test scores. Yet when Mr. Chetty and his colleagues took another look at the
students in adulthood, they discovered that the legacy of kindergarten had
re-emerged. Students who had learned much more in kindergarten were more likely
to go to college than students with otherwise similar backgrounds. Students who
learned more were also less likely to become single parents. As adults, they
were more likely to be saving for retirement. Perhaps most striking, they were
earning more."

Jackie Hunter argues we should encourage pharmaceutical companies to go open
source: http://bit.ly/dsyWiF

James Wilentz argues the US can learn from the Haitian health care system: "A
public-private partnership like the one contemplated for Haiti could be created
here. The government, through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
could team up with health care systems that provide high-quality care to people
of all income levels -- Kaiser-Permanente, in California, comes to mind, as does
the Mayo Clinic network; the Geisinger Health System, in Pennsylvania; Partners
HealthCare, in Boston; and Intermountain Healthcare, in Utah -- to provide a
public option."

Closing credits: Wonkbook compiled with the help of Dylan Matthews and Mike
Shepard.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       August 2, 2010 Monday 12:00 PM EST

Outlook: Arizona's immigration law

BYLINE: Roberto Suro

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1213 words


_______________________

Arizona"s Immigration law: What do you think about keeping the part of the law
that says check immigration status and changing the wording so that ALL people
stopped by police have to prove that they are U.S. citizens? This seems fair to
me.

Roberto Suro: Well, there are two issues it seems to me: Will it be fair? Will
it be effective? As to the first, Judge Bolton, who issued the temporary
injuction last week, raised several cautions about putting some citizens and
legal residents in difficult positions because they either have not been issued
or do have to carry with them proof of legal status. This kind of practice will
inevitably generate hassles and complaints.The more important question is: will
it be effective? You care counting on cops, who are being very careful NOT to
engage in racial profiling randomly having enough encounters that meet the law's
conditions in order to perform checks. I think it could be a very round about,
very inefficient way to go about enforcing immigration law. It could use up
police resources with little to show.

_______________________

"Illegal" Folks: What is it about the word "illegal" people don't understand? If
you are in this country "illegally" it means you should not be here. Period.
Other honest people came thru Ellis Island years ago. These Mexicans are here
"illegally" and should be deported or leave. Doesn't the word still mean the
same thing?

Roberto Suro: Just a note of clarification on illegal: It is not a crime to be
in the United States without authorization. The individual is not subject to
civil or criminal penalty. It is NOT like tresspassing. An individually found to
be in the country without authorization is subject to removal and dentention
only in association with removal e.g. that are considered a flight risk. Taking
work without authorization is not a crime either--however using false identity
papers to get a job is a violation of federal law.If you want to change the law,
fine, (SB 1070 does not BTW), but as it stands, being in the US without papers
and getting a job without using fake papers is not technically " illegal" --you
can't be punished for it, you can just be sent home.

_______________________

Birthright citizenship: Was the 14th Amendment misinterpreted by the government
to include children born of illegal immigrants?

Roberto Suro: Section 1 of the amendment states: "All persons born or
naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside."I don't see
much wiggle room in "all persons born" as the definition of a citizen

_______________________

employers: What is being done to stop this issue at it's source: the cheating
employers of illegal immigrants?

Roberto Suro:  Meanwhile, I'm, free to hire the next applicant.Now, no US
politician, including Arizona's leaders have been wiling to tell the entire US
workforce (300 million plus) that it has to subject itself to this process in
order to rid itself of some 7 or 8 million illegal workers. Plut it could take
five years and a lot of money to get the system in in place.

_______________________

Arizona's immigration law: How does everyone lose?

Roberto Suro: The people who want more effective enforcement will lose if the AZ
law is upheld. Even if it is allowed to move forward as written, it will not
produce a significant and rapid decline in the unauthorized population. It's
just not efficient. State and local cops already have much else to do. It is not
as if all of a sudden a tremendous wave of new manpower will go into the
challenge. And besides, simple policy stops--if they obey the rules on racial
profiling and 4th ammendment protections--will not be effective on city streets.
The unauthorized can easily avoid them.On the other side, folks looking for a
broader more multi-faceted approach to immigration are going see the debate
pushed two two topics: the role of local law enforcement and the powers of state
governments, which are both distractions in my view.We have serious work to do
on this issue. It is not going to get fixed with traffic stops. That is true
whether you want to see them all rounded up and sent home or whether you want to
make them all citizens. The Arizona law does not offer any serious policy
options.

_______________________

Theory: Do you think the legislators who pushed the immigration law knew that it
wouldn't survive a court challenge, but did it anyway to pander to anti-Hispanic
sentiment? If Arizona is seen as unfriendly to Hispanics, then the supporters
generally got what they wanted. This nativism seems little different from the
type one saw in Northern cities a century ago during the Irish and Italian
immigration, or even 250 years ago during the German immigration.Also, I think
focusing enforcement and prosecution on the illegals themselves it not only
punitive but misguided. Would you favor this focus being placed instead on the
employers who hire illegals, who after all are coming here for jobs. And would
you favor lifting the yearly quotas for legal immigration and make the process
of pursuing citizenship less arduous and less expensive?

Roberto Suro: We know for a fact that the AZ law was written with the help of
experts who have been involved in several court challenges with the federal
government and who openly say they have been looking for a vehicle for a
successful challenge.So, this law was clearly written with the intent of getting
into court.As to the nature of nativism, fascinating but too complicated a point
for this venue. Suffice to say some themes--fear of a criminal element,
competition over jobs--repeat themselves, but each era needs to be judged on its
own terms.And, on employers, yes, the worksite needs to the focus of
enforcement. I talked about the mechanisms, which aren't simple, in a response
to an earlier question.But, overall I don't think you can fix illegal
immigration system without first building a legel system that is flexible about
meeting the needs of the labor force, and that includes flows of investors and
inventors as well as workers, a system that envisions different kinds of
migrants some who come just for a while and go home, some who go back and forth
and some who make the US their home, and a system that includes efforts to
remove the incentives to illegal migration in big sending communities in Mexico
and elsewhere. You get all that working, and illegal migration ought to be
reduced to a nuisance.

_______________________

Immigration: Do we need immigration indefinitely? Aren't there enough people in
this country, and our poor population keeps increasing, why have more
immigration then?

Roberto Suro:  the late 1990s was accompanied by historically high immigration
flows and historically low unemployment. the question facing us now is how we
manage immigration to find different forms of comparative advantage with
China?Immigration as an economic input is not an easy thing to manage. Neither
is money supply or currency fluctuations. What I argue is that we have to
acknowledge that the challenges are in these realms, and recognize that
arguments over traffic stops aren't getting us anywhere.well that's all for me,
many thanks to everyone who has participated.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 2, 2010 Monday
                                Regional Edition

If Arizona were on the Potomac

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 149 words


It is easy for us to be critical of the Arizona immigration law from here on the
banks of the Potomac, so I pose the following questions:

What would local officials do if, starting tomorrow and daily thereafter, two
airplanes from Tijuana and Juarez landed at one of our local airports, and
rather than pull up to the terminal they just parked at the end of a runway and
discharged their passengers, whereupon the people walked across the grass and
out to the George Washington Memorial Parkway or Route 28 and disappeared? And
what would they do if they were told that Immigration and Customs Enforcement
was understaffed and would deal with it later? Would this be a security problem?
Would local law enforcement be allowed to get involved?

Far-fetched? Sure, for us here on the banks of the Potomac, but except for the
airplanes it's a fact of life on the southern border.

Charles Heid, Warrenton

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

The side effects of Arizona's law

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 290 words


The Obama administration has used a bizarre double standard in dealing with the
Arizona immigration law and medical marijuana. The usurpation of federal
prerogatives in the case of Arizona's immigration laws pales in comparison to
the egregious flaunting of violations of federal law and international treaty
obligations created by state and local approval of smoked marijuana.

The right way to handle medical marijuana is to submit the issue to the Food and
Drug Administration for judgment regarding the safety and efficacy of smoked
marijuana for medicinal uses. If approved,  medical marijuana should be
prescribed and dispensed just as are all other medicines, especially controlled
substances.

The Obama administration, AWOL on medical marijuana, is permitting -- if not
encouraging -- a menacing precedent for the political approval of medicines.

Robert L. DuPont, Rockville

The writer is president of the Institute for Behavior and Health and a founding
director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse.

--

It appears that Eugene Robinson is incapable of appreciating that those of us
who support the Arizona immigration law could be acting in good faith ["Judge
Bolton's gift to the GOP," op-ed, July 30].

Thus, we are "demagogues," "anti-Latino" and "anti-immigrant." Moreover, he
blithely assumed all Hispanics oppose the law and will vote Democratic as a
result. Contrary to what Mr. Robinson wrote, supporters of the Arizona law do
not oppose immigration; we oppose illegal immigration. Furthermore, many
Hispanics, myself included, are more likely to vote Republican rather than
Democratic if the Democratic Party insists on a condescending policy that
presumes all Hispanics are against the Arizona law.

NÃ©stor Enrique Cruz, Annandale

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Judge faults Justice in immigration case

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 711 words


A federal appellate judge expressed deep skepticism Monday about a Justice
Department lawsuit challenging Arizona's new immigration law, leaving uncertain
the Obama administration's chances of stopping the law from taking effect.

Judge John T. Noonan Jr. grilled administration lawyers at a hearing before the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in San Francisco. He took aim at the
core of the Justice Department's argument: that the Arizona statute is
"preempted" by federal law and is especially troublesome because it requires
mandatory immigration status checks in certain circumstances.

"I've read your brief, I've read the District Court opinion, I've heard your
interchange with my two colleagues, and I don't understand your argument,"
Noonan told Deputy Solicitor General Edwin S. Kneedler. "We are dependent as a
court on counsel being responsive. . . . You keep saying the problem is that a
state officer is told to do something. That's not a matter of preemption. . . .
I would think the proper thing to do is to concede that this is a point where
you don't have an argument."

"With respect, I do believe we have an argument," said Kneedler, who asserts
that the Arizona law is unconstitutional and threatens civil liberties by
subjecting immigrants legally in the United States to "interrogation and police
surveillance.''

The exchange came at a hearing on efforts by the Justice Department to overturn
the Arizona law, which empowers police to question people they suspect are in
the country illegally and has triggered a fierce national debate. A federal
judge in Phoenix issued a July injunction blocking the law's most contested
provisions from taking effect. Arizona appealed, leading to the Monday hearing.

With Noonan, an appointee of President Ronald Reagan, so bluntly stating his
views, legal experts said the government's chances of having the injunction
upheld may rest with the other judges on the panel: Carlos T. Bea and Richard A.
Paez.

Bea is also a Republican appointee and tends to vote with the court's
conservative wing, which could help Arizona's chances. Paez is a Democratic
appointee.

But Bea and Paez are Hispanic, and it is Hispanics who are most upset about the
Arizona law. "Perhaps this is one area where Bea might not vote as a so-called
conservative because he himself is an immigrant,'' said Arthur Hellman, a
University of Pittsburgh law professor and an expert on the 9th Circuit.

Bea did not make his position clear during Monday's argument, but he sharply
questioned Arizona's attorneys. "Your argument that a state can take a look at
whether the federal government is not enforcing its laws. . . . You can enforce
laws for the federal government?" he asked. "If I don't pay my [federal] income
taxes, can California sue me?''

Whatever the result, the panel's decision is the first step on a long road:
Legal experts expect the case to reach the Supreme Court. It is unclear when the
panel will rule.

The Justice Department lawsuit, filed in July, triggered opposition from
Republicans but praise from civil rights groups.

U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton in July put on hold provisions of the law
that would require police to check immigration status if they stop someone while
enforcing other laws, allow for warrantless arrests of suspected illegal
immigrants and criminalize the failure of legal immigrants to carry their
documentation.

Kneedler, a widely respected appellate lawyer, urged the judges to uphold the
injunction while the federal lawsuit proceeds. "This is an extraordinary state
statute," he told the judges, saying that provisions such as the criminalization
of failure to carry registration papers "are clearly preempted . . . it's a
direct regulation of immigration."

Arizona's lawyer, John J. Bouma, defended the law's constitutionality and said
Arizona passed it because of "a federal government that has been unable or
unwilling to solve" the illegal immigration problem.

Civil rights groups have said the law targets Hispanics, but Bouma, a leading
Phoenix lawyer, objected to that characterization. "Arizona has a long and proud
tradition of a Hispanic population, and nobody is trying to take away from
that,'' he said.

markonj@washpost.com

Staff researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Justice weighs suing Arizona to block immigration law;
Obama says legislation threatens to undermine 'notions of fairness'

BYLINE: Jerry Markon and Anne E. Kornblut

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 901 words


Officials in the Obama administration are urging the extraordinary step of suing
Arizona over its new immigration law, and the Justice Department is considering
such an action to block the legislation from taking effect, government officials
said Wednesday.

The Arizona law criminalizes illegal immigration by defining it as trespassing
and empowers police to question anyone they have a "reasonable suspicion" is an
illegal immigrant. President Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. have
blasted the legislation, with Obama saying that it "threatened to undermine
basic notions of fairness."

"The president had strong words to say and the attorney general had strong words
to say," said one law enforcement official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because no decision has been made. "Considering that it's signed into
law, and Arizona is doing a lot of pomp and circumstance, do you see a friendly
way out of this?"

A key legal ground being considered, officials said, is the doctrine of
"preemption" -- arguing that the state's  law illegally intrudes on immigration
enforcement, which is a federal responsibility.

The White House probably will make the final call, given that the issue is
fraught with legal and political implications. Senior administration officials
indicated Wednesday that Holder's remarks about the legislation -- he said he is
"very concerned" that it could drive a "wedge" between law enforcement and
immigrant communities -- should be taken very seriously.

The law will not take effect until summer, 90 days after the Arizona legislature
adjourns. But the Justice Department could be in court by early to mid-May, the
officials said.

The prospect of federal lawyers marching into court to challenge a state law
would be most unusual, legal specialists said. Typically, the government files
briefs or seeks to intervene in lawsuits filed by others against state statutes;
federal officials said that could still happen in the Arizona case.

"It's relatively rare for the federal government to directly challenge a state
law," said Jonathan Turley, a constitutional law expert at George Washington
University Law School, who could not cite a comparable example. "It's even more
rare when there is no shortage of people challenging the law." A coalition of
civil rights groups announced Wednesday that it is preparing its  own suit
against Arizona, and officials in Phoenix, Tucson and Flagstaff said they are
considering suing the state.

The measure makes Arizona the first state to criminalize illegal immigration by
defining it as trespassing, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures. It spells out that police may not "solely consider race, color or
national origin" in questioning people about their immigration status. Advocates
of the law characterize that provision as forbidding racial profiling, while
opponents contend it raises the possibility that race or skin color could be
considered with other factors.

With efforts to reform the nation's immigration laws stalled in Congress, a suit
would put the administration squarely in the middle of an issue that has divided
Americans just months before midterm congressional elections. Federal officials
were loath to discuss any political considerations, but a court challenge could
energize a Democratic base that strongly opposes the Arizona measure.

Conversely, it could bring opposition from conservatives and "tea party"
activists, who have accused the administration of improperly expanding the
federal role in financial bailouts and health-care reform. "It would absolutely
inflame people," said Rosemary Jenks, director of government relations for
NumbersUSA, an Arlington group that calls for tougher immigration enforcement.

"Arizona passed this law because the federal government abdicated its
enforcement responsibilities on immigration," said Jenks, a lawyer who says the
new law is constitutional. "To now have the federal government come in and say
'You can't do that' is going to outrage a whole lot of people."

Muzaffar Chishti, who directs the Migration Policy Institute's office at New
York University Law School, said a federal challenge probably would persuade a
judge to declare the law unconstitutional under the preemption doctrine, which
has been established in Supreme Court decisions. It is based on the
Constitution's supremacy clause, which says federal law trumps state statutes.

The Supreme Court has said that immigration enforcement is principally, though
not exclusively, a federal responsibility.

But Kris Kobach, who helped draft the legislation, said similar preemption
arguments failed when Arizona passed a 2007 law that sanctioned employers for
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. "They tried this on for size already, and
it failed," said Kobach, a senior Justice Department official in the George W.
Bush administration who is now a constitutional law professor at the University
of Missouri at Kansas City.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano indicated in congressional
testimony Tuesday that federal reviewers are considering a preemption argument.

"The first thing that needs to be done is for the Justice Department to review
whether the law is constitutional under the laws governing the supremacy clause
and under the laws governing preemption," she said, adding: "Is it
constitutional or not?"

Staff writer Spencer S. Hsu contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

'Hard look' at immigration law;
Memo from 2002 could complicate action against Arizona

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 639 words


In the legal battle over Arizona's new immigration law, an ironic subtext has
emerged: whether a Bush-era legal opinion complicates a potential Obama
administration lawsuit against Arizona.

The document, written in 2002 by the Justice Department's Office of Legal
Counsel, concluded that state police officers have "inherent power" to arrest
undocumented immigrants for violating federal law. It was issued by Jay S.
Bybee, who also helped write controversial memos from the same era that
sanctioned harsh interrogation of terrorism suspects.

The author of the Arizona law -- which has drawn strong opposition from top
Obama administration officials -- has cited the authority granted in the 2002
memo as a basis for the legislation. The Obama administration has not withdrawn
the memo, and some backers of the Arizona law said Monday that because it
remains in place, a Justice Department lawsuit against Arizona would be awkward
at best.

"The Justice Department's official position as of now is that local law
enforcement has the inherent authority to enforce federal immigration law," said
Robert Driscoll, a former Justice Department Civil Rights Division official in
the George W. Bush administration who represents an Arizona sheriff known for
aggressive immigration enforcement. "How can you blame someone for exercising
authority that the department says they have?"

The Arizona law, signed by Gov. Jan Brewer (R) last month, makes the "willful
failure" to carry immigration documents a crime and empowers police to question
anyone if authorities have a "reasonable suspicion" the person is an illegal
immigrant. It has drawn words of condemnation from President Obama and intense
opposition from civil rights groups, who on Monday filed what they said was the
fifth federal lawsuit over the legislation.

Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. has said the department is considering a
lawsuit against Arizona, and Civil Rights Division lawyers have been studying
the law and consulting with some civil rights groups.

"The Civil Rights Division has been working around the clock," said one outside
lawyer who has spoken to Justice Department officials. The lawyer spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the contacts are not public. "They have a lot of
attorneys on it, and they're taking a really hard look at filing their own
lawsuit or intervening." Justice Department officials declined to comment Monday
beyond saying they are continuing to review the government's legal options.

The 2002 opinion, known as the "inherent authority" memo, reversed a 1996 Office
of Legal Counsel opinion from the Clinton administration. "This Office's 1996
advice that federal law precludes state police from arresting aliens on the
basis of civil deportability was mistaken," says the 2002 memo, which was
released publicly in redacted form in 2005 after civil rights groups sued to
obtain it.

Office of Legal Counsel documents do not have the force of law but carry great
weight within the executive branch and are considered to be the Justice
Department's official position on a legal or constitutional issue.

Cecillia Wang, managing attorney of the ACLU Immigrants' Rights Project -- which
filed Monday's lawsuit in federal court in Phoenix along with the NAACP, the
National Immigration Law Center and other groups -- said the 2002 memo would not
present an obstacle to a Justice Department lawsuit. She said the power that the
Arizona law gives to police "goes far beyond" the basic arrest authority cited
in the memo.

But Wang renewed the ACLU's call for the Obama Justice Department to withdraw
the 2002 memo, which she called legally incorrect. "The fact that this memo is
lurking out there gives cover and comfort to people in Arizona and other states
who want to pass these overbroad and extraordinary anti-immigration measures,"
she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Terry Gilliam/associated Press; Attorney General Eric H. Holder
Jr. has said his office is considering a lawsuit against Arizona.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The truth behind the Arizona law

BYLINE: Kirk Adams

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Lately it seems as though each day brings a new group or city council announcing
that it will boycott Arizona in response to our state's recently enacted
immigration law, S.B. 1070. Many organizations and individuals are jumping on
the media-hype bandwagon rather than taking the time to read the bill and
research the facts.

It is not just incredibly unfortunate that cities such as Boston, San Francisco
and Seattle, which are far removed from the problems that we face here on the
southern border, have announced boycotts against Arizona. Frankly, it's
offensive. If such drug- and gang-related crimes were affecting public safety in
Manhattan or Boston, East Coast elites would be declaring a national emergency.

But instead we have Attorney General Eric Holder, who, after criticizing S.B.
1070 and suggesting that the federal government may sue Arizona over the
legislation, admitted while testifying before the House Judiciary Committee that
he hadn't actually read the bill.

And then there is President Obama, who called S.B. 1070 "misguided" despite the
fact that it mirrors federal law. After significant pressure to do something
about illegal immigration, Obama pledged this week to send 1,200 National Guard
troops to the southern border. But this plan falls far short of real border
security, and the people of Arizona will no longer be assuaged by such symbolic
actions.

Americans overwhelmingly support this law, according to polls, and at least 18
other states are considering adopting similar immigration laws. In fact,
Arizona's state government has received hundreds of unsolicited donations in the
mail from citizens across the nation asking us to use the money to fight illegal
immigration. This sends an incredible message to our federal government that,
until it steps up to protect citizens, states will have no choice but to act, as
Arizona did, for our citizens' safety.

I hope the president, the attorney general and other concerned Americans read
Arizona's legislation. If they do, they would learn that, as signed, S.B. 1070
mirrors federal law by making it a state crime to be in this country illegally,
as has been the case in federal statute for decades. The trailer bill makes it
crystal-clear that racial profiling is not and will not be tolerated. It also
recognizes an established standard, "reasonable suspicion," for Arizona law
enforcement officials to use when determining whether a person's  presence is
legal. This measure protects both the officer and the individual in question.

Furthermore, Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer issued an executive order requiring the
state to use representatives from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to
train our law enforcement officials, ensuring they receive appropriate training
to apply federal standards. In any event, the legislation clearly states that
law enforcement officials "may not consider race, color or national origin"
while enforcing immigration law.

Under the law, officers can only attempt to determine a person's immigration
status during "lawful contact," which is defined  as a lawful stop, detention or
arrest. Any "reasonable suspicion" can be derived only through the investigation
of another violation or crime. Those who are concerned that law enforcement can
simply walk up to a person and say, "Can I see your papers?" should keep this in
mind.

Even California, a state home to vocal detractors of S.B. 1070 and Arizona
boycotters, has a similar law on its books. I suggest critics research
California Penal Code Section 834b, which states, in part: "With respect to any
such person who is arrested, and suspected of being present in the United States
in violation of federal immigration laws, every law enforcement agency shall do
the following:

"Attempt to verify the legal status of such person as a citizen of the United
States, an alien lawfully admitted as a permanent resident, an alien lawfully
admitted for a temporary period of time or as an alien who is present in the
United States in violation of immigration laws. The verification process may
include, but shall not be limited to, questioning the person regarding his or
her date and place of birth, and entry into the United States, and demanding
documentation to indicate his or her legal status."

Sound familiar?

Arizona has plenty to do fighting the effects of illegal immigration. It's a
shame that because of our efforts to protect our citizens and uphold federal
law, we now have to fight ignorance, too.

The writer, a Republican from Mesa, is speaker of the Arizona House of
Representatives.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration's elusive fix

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 573 words


Two important facts were not included in the May 27 news story "U.S. police
chiefs say Arizona immigration law will increase crime."

First, evidence suggests that crime will not increase when immigration laws are
enforced. Take the case of Prince William County, which implemented immigration
enforcement practices three years ago. Not only has crime not increased, but
local crime rates are now at a 15-year low. Second, according to the Arizona
immigration law, law enforcement officers are not required to determine the
immigration status of the person "if the determination may hinder or obstruct an
investigation." The fear that implementation of the law will intimidate crime
victims or witnesses is baseless because the law expressly provides an exemption
to ensure crimes can be investigated.

Undoubtedly, the local police need to communicate clearly with their communities
about what the law requires and what it does not. But immigration enforcement
does not need to drive a wedge between local police departments and the citizen
and legal immigrant communities they serve.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer, who represents Texas's 21st congressional district, is the ranking
Republican on the House Judiciary Committee.

--

Given the statement by Kirk Adams in his May 28 Washington Forum commentary,
"The truth behind the Arizona law," that "Arizona has plenty to do fighting the
effects of illegal immigration," you might think that illegal migration was on
the rise and that all immigrants were quite dangerous. Neither is true.

On the contrary, net illegal migration to the United States fell to zero in 2008
and since then has been negative. As a result, undocumented populations around
the country have peaked and are slowly declining. Nationally, the number of
illegal residents fell from around 12 million in 2008 to about 11 million in
2009, and in Arizona the population of illegal residents dropped by 100,000
people. Moreover, studies show that immigrant neighborhoods are safer than
native neighborhoods, on average, and immigrants, particularly illegal migrants,
are less likely to commit crimes than natives. Given these facts, laws such as
those passed in Arizona are overkill at the least and certainly racist in their
effect if not their intent.

Douglas S. Massey, Princeton, N.J.

--

The headline on the May 27 editorial "Fixing immigration, again" nailed the
issue with conservatives, but it was never reiterated in the discussion of the
pending legislation.

We've already tried "comprehensive" reform with bad results. As previously, we
are being promised a fix to the root problem: our unprotected border.

Also,  as previously, Americans are being told the fix will be bundled with what
equates to amnesty for those already here illegally.

One can appeal to  Americans' goodwill to make some case for coupling measures
punishing those lawbreakers already here with some chance for them to gain legal
presence. However, there is no rational coupling of those issues with fixing our
unprotected border. We know from experience that funding to close the border
will be diverted; legal challenges will block the "crackdown"; and politicians
looking for new, grateful voters will rush to implement the amnesty provisions.

"Immigration reform" should be shelved, and the funding of border fixes added as
"bait" in the bill drafted by Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) should be passed
as a separate measure.

William Mills, Sterling

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 8, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona leaders worry as state's image takes beating;
IMMIGRATION LAW AT ISSUE Bitter debate dismays both sides of the aisle

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION

LENGTH: 864 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


When state Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D) travels outside Arizona, she hears the same
question over and over: "What's wrong with your state?" She notes Arizona's new
immigration law, its ban on ethnic studies classes and its prohibition on
creating animal-human hybrids.

The other day, Sinema sent a note to her Twitter followers that might as well
have been accompanied by a heavy sigh. "Just one day," she tweeted, "I'd like
Arizona to be in the news for something good."

Sinema is a Democrat in a largely Republican state, but her sense of
disheartenment is shared across party lines. Dean Martin, state treasurer and
GOP candidate for governor, said national opinion on Arizona is "polarized.
That's counterproductive."

Arizona finds itself at the vortex of an immigration debate that is increasingly
bitter and, figures on both sides say, increasingly unwinnable. Opinions are
split, with fear of harassment rising among Hispanics and worry about an
economic boycott growing among the state's leaders.

Gov. Jan Brewer (R) has appointed a committee and allocated $250,000 to re-brand
the state's image, while 13 Arizona chamber of commerce executives appealed to
Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig to keep the 2011 All-Star Game in
Phoenix after he faced pressure to change locations. They said it would preserve
jobs for "innocent citizens, including our Hispanic community."

Musical performers such as Sonic Youth, Kanye West and Rage Against the Machine
have said they will boycott the state. Phoenix City Hall calculates that Arizona
has lost nearly $100 million in convention commitments. Meanwhile, supporters
and opponents of the immigration law are taking to the streets weekly.

The national focus on the state has grown since April 23, when Brewer, facing a
primary election challenge, signed the bill known as SB1070, giving police wide
latitude to check the immigration status of people they suspect are in the
country illegally. The governor met last week with President Obama at the White
House, pressing her point that federal inaction forced Arizona to act.

"Both sides are definitely set in their positions. Probably no one's going to
change anyone's mind," said Grant Woods (R), a former state attorney general,
who worries that an image of the state as intolerant will take hold. "I think it
sticks until we rise above it."

In Arizona and beyond, the law has many supporters. A CBS News poll last month
found that 52 percent of respondents nationally think the Arizona law is "about
right" in its handling of illegal immigrants. Seventeen percent said it does not
go far enough. Twenty-eight percent said the law goes too far.

Although the law is not due to take effect until July 29, Hispanic families that
include undocumented immigrants are lying low. Some are planning moves to other
states, said the Rev. Vili Valderrama, who lives in Nogales, near the border
with Mexico. "People feel discouraged, they feel powerless," he said.

Natividad Lopez Rubio, known as "Natty," said his Nogales-to-Phoenix shuttle
business is suffering. A few months ago, his minivans made 14 round trips a day
and were often full. Now, he is lucky to make five trips with a few passengers
in each.

"Most of the people we carry are Mexican. People are scared," Lopez Rubio said
outside his office, one block from the busy border crossing. "It's totally a
consequence of the law."

In lamenting the state's increasingly bitter divisions, Laura Briggs, who
teaches women's studies at the University of Arizona, cites a painful example of
ethnic strife. "It feels like what people said about Sarajevo," said Briggs,
whose daughter is Mexican American. "I used to be part of a community that was
mixed. People lived in the same neighborhood, people intermarried. Now there's
this unleashing of this horrible anti-Latino racism that I can't even
understand."

Opponents of the immigration law may be frustrated, but "boycotts are absolutely
the wrong way to go," said Garrick Taylor, a spokesman for the state chamber of
commerce. Boycotts hurt Arizonans, "particularly in the tourist industry, who
had nothing to do with the law."

Taylor is especially annoyed with state and local governments that are canceling
deals with Arizona businesses or calling on others to do so. "If they were truly
invested in the immigration issue," he said, "they'd be pressing Washington for
comprehensive immigration reform."

The last time Arizona's image suffered such a blow was in the 1980s, when many
Republicans, including then-U.S. Rep. John McCain, opposed a national holiday
honoring the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Woods, the former attorney general,
said the moment inspired his winning campaign as a GOP promoter of civil rights.
This time, he is counting on "intelligent, compassionate people from all sides"
to find a compromise.

"There are some states that are pretty much lily-white. That's not our state,"
Woods said. "To be an Arizonan is to be a part of Mexico. It's to be a part of
the various Native American tribes. That's part of our culture, the diversity. I
think the people's hearts are there, but the leaders don't always respect that."

Polling analyst Jennifer Agiesta contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Arizona leaders worry as state's image takes beating nationally;
Bitter debate over immigration law dismays both parties

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


When state Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D) travels outside Arizona, she hears the same
question over and over: "What's wrong with your state?" She notes Arizona's new
immigration law, its ban on ethnic studies classes and its prohibition on
creating animal-human hybrids.

The other day, Sinema sent a note to her Twitter followers that might as well
have been accompanied by a heavy sigh. "Just one day," she tweeted, "I'd like
Arizona to be in the news for something good."

Sinema is a Democrat in a largely Republican state, but her disheartenment is
shared across party lines. Dean Martin, state treasurer and GOP candidate for
governor, said national opinion on Arizona is "polarized. That's
counterproductive."

Arizona finds itself at the vortex of an immigration debate that is increasingly
bitter and, figures on both sides say, increasingly unwinnable. Opinions are
split, with fear of harassment rising among Hispanics and worry about an
economic boycott growing among the state's leaders.

Gov. Jan Brewer (R) has appointed a committee and allocated $250,000 to rebrand
the state's image, while 13 Arizona chamber of commerce executives appealed to
Commissioner of Baseball Bud Selig to keep the 2011 All-Star Game in Phoenix
after he faced pressure to change locations. They said it would preserve jobs
for "innocent citizens, including our Hispanic community."

Both sides set

 Musical performers such as Sonic Youth, Kanye West and Rage Against the Machine
have said they will boycott the state. Phoenix City Hall calculates that Arizona
has lost nearly $100 million in convention commitments. Meanwhile, supporters
and opponents of the immigration law are taking to the streets weekly.

The national focus on the state has grown since April 23, when Brewer, facing a
primary election challenge, signed the bill known as SB1070, giving police wide
latitude to check the immigration status of people they suspect are in the
country illegally. The governor met last week with President Obama at the White
House, pressing her point that federal inaction forced Arizona to act.

"Both sides are definitely set in their positions. Probably no one's going to
change anyone's mind," said Grant Woods (R), a former state attorney general,
who worries that an image of the state as intolerant will take hold. "I think it
sticks until we rise above it."

In Arizona and beyond, the law has many supporters. A CBS News poll last month
found that 52 percent of respondents nationally think the Arizona law is "about
right" in its handling of illegal immigrants. Seventeen percent said it does not
go far enough. Twenty-eight percent said the law goes too far.

Although the law is not due to take effect until July 29, Hispanic families that
include undocumented immigrants are lying low. Some are planning moves to other
states, said the Rev. Vili Valderrama, who lives in Nogales, near the border
with Mexico. "People feel discouraged; they feel powerless," he said.

Natividad Lopez Rubio, known as "Natty," said his Nogales-to-Phoenix shuttle
business is suffering. A few months ago, his minivans made 14 round trips a day
and were often full. Now, he is lucky to make five trips with a few passengers
on each.

"Most of the people we carry are Mexican. People are scared," Lopez Rubio said
outside his office, one block from the busy border crossing. "It's totally a
consequence of the law."

In lamenting the state's increasingly bitter divisions, Laura Briggs, who
teaches women's studies at the University of Arizona, cites a painful example of
ethnic strife. "It feels like what people said about Sarajevo," said Briggs,
whose daughter is Mexican American.  "I used to be part of a community that was
mixed. People lived in the same neighborhood, people intermarried. Now there's
this unleashing of this horrible anti-Latino racism that I can't even
understand."

Another blow

Opponents of the immigration law may be frustrated, but "boycotts are absolutely
the wrong way to go," said Garrick Taylor, a spokesman for the state chamber of
commerce. Boycotts hurt Arizonans, "particularly in the tourist industry, who
had nothing to do with the law," he said.

Taylor is especially annoyed with state and local governments that are canceling
deals with Arizona businesses or calling on others to do so. "If they were truly
invested in the immigration issue," he said, "they'd be pressing Washington for
comprehensive immigration reform."

The last time Arizona's image suffered such a blow was in the 1980s, when many
Republicans, including then-U.S. Rep. John McCain, opposed a national holiday
honoring the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Woods, the former attorney general,
said the moment inspired his winning campaign as a GOP promoter of civil rights.
This time, he is counting on "intelligent, compassionate people from all sides"
to find a compromise.

"There are some states that are pretty much lily-white. That's not our state,"
Woods said. "To be an Arizonan is to be a part of Mexico. It's to be a part of
the various Native American tribes. That's part of our culture, the diversity. I
think the people's hearts are there, but the leaders don't always respect that."

Polling analyst Jennifer Agiesta contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 12, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 510 words


ARIZONA

2nd lawsuit weighed on immigration law

Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said Sunday that if the federal government
does not stop Arizona's immigration law from taking effect, it might launch  a
second legal challenge to combat any racial profiling that occurs.

The Obama administration is suing Arizona over the law, set to take effect July
29, which would make it a state crime for someone to be in the country
illegally. During "lawful stops," local law enforcement officers will be
required to question people about their immigration status if there is
"reasonable suspicion" that they might be illegal immigrants.

In its July 6 court filing, the Justice Department argued that the Arizona law
is unconstitutional because the power to set immigration policy and enforce it
resides with the federal government and not the states.

On CBS's "Face the Nation" on Sunday, Holder said that if the law takes effect,
the Justice Department might  have grounds for a second challenge.

The Justice Department might "look at the impact the law has had and whether or
not -- see whether or not there has been that racial profiling impact," Holder
said. "And if that was the case, we would have the tools and we would bring suit
on that basis."

-- Lyndsey Layton

FLORIDA

Boy cares for 12 kids left alone at center

A 9-year-old boy took care of 12 other children when they were left alone for up
to an hour by day-care center workers apparently upset with their boss, said the
Orange County Sheriff's Office in Florida.

The boy, who was not named in a sheriff's report, told a deputy that he and the
other children were watching a cartoon on television when three workers left All
Star's Child Care in Pine Hills, Fla.

Laquanda Tamel King, 33, told the child to lock the door, and he assumed she
would be back soon, he told the deputy. A 14-month-old, a 22-month-old and a
3-year-old began to cry, so he patted their backs to comfort them, according to
the report.

King and Michele Lavett Bell, 41, both of Orlando, were arrested on 13 counts
each of child neglect.

As she was being led to a deputy's car on her way to the Orange County jail,
King said she left the children alone because center owner Ednita Williams owed
her "over $100." King also said Williams, 48, knew the employees planned to walk
off the job. Bell did not speak.

Williams denied knowing the children would be alone.

-- Associated Press

Marines embed with L.A. police officers:  About 70 Camp Pendleton Marines have
been patrolling the streets of Los Angeles's toughest neighborhoods with the
city police to learn skills they hope to apply in Afghanistan. The Marines say
learning to work like an officer on a beat will help them better track the
Taliban, build relationships with Afghans leery of foreign troops and make them
better teachers as they try to professionalize an Afghan police force beset by
corruption. The week-long exercise involved Marines dressed in jeans and
T-shirts observing drug busts. It was the largest group of Marines to embed with
the city's officers.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Orlin Wagner/associated Press; Police block part of a state
highway in Lawrence, Kan., where heavy rains have caused flash flooding.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Profiling's unlikely enabler;
A high court ruling underpins Ariz. law

BYLINE: Gabriel J. Chin and Kevin R. Johnson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 826 words


In its challenge to Arizona's controversial immigration law last week, the
Justice Department argues that the state law conflicts with federal law,
intruding on federal power and ability to regulate immigration. For many
Americans, however, the lawsuit is needed because of  concerns that Arizona's
legislation, S.B. 1070, will lead to police harassment of people, particularly
those of color, who cannot prove they are in this country legally. Yet for all
the controversy over those concerns, few are talking about the real legal issue
underlying the law.

Supporters and opponents of S.B. 1070 assume that racial profiling is
unconstitutional, largely because many Americans believe that it ought to be. In
fact, the U.S. Supreme Court has approved the racial profiling permitted --
indeed encouraged -- by S.B. 1070.

In a 1975 case regarding the Border Patrol's power to stop vehicles near the
U.S.-Mexico border and question the occupants about their citizenship and
immigration status, United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, the high court ruled that
the "likelihood that any given person of Mexican ancestry is an alien is high
enough to make Mexican appearance a relevant factor." In 1982 the Arizona
Supreme Court agreed, ruling in State v. Graciano that "enforcement of
immigration laws often involves a relevant consideration of ethnic factors."

Arizona's immigration law states that a "law enforcement official or agency . .
. may not consider race, color or national origin in implementing the
requirements of this subsection except to the extent permitted by the United
States or Arizona constitution." Although supporters of the law, including Gov.
Jan Brewer (R) and other state officials, have said repeatedly that racial
profiling is prohibited in its enforcement and that those charged with carrying
out the law will be trained to avoid it, the fact that the legislature included
this careful exception is significant.

Lawmakers took care to embrace the reliance on race permitted by cases such as
Brignoni-Ponce. This choice deserves acknowledgment and discussion, just like
that received by the rest of the law.

Brignoni-Ponce has resulted in immigration enforcement that many contend is
race-based and in violation of the U.S. Constitution. In case after case, in
states including Florida, Iowa and New York, defendants arguing  that Border
Patrol stops constituted unlawful searches and seizures under the Fourth
Amendment have encountered claims by the U.S. government -- including the
current administration -- that "Mexican" or "Hispanic" appearance, along with
other factors, justified an immigration stop. Border enforcement officers
regularly admit in court that "Hispanic appearance" is one reason for an
immigration stop.

Racial profiling results from the perceived statistical association of
particular races or nationalities with undocumented immigration -- the idea, in
other words, that many undocumented immigrants are from Mexico. This rationale
ignores the fact that the law generally requires individual suspicion to justify
criminal investigation; that a "Mexican appearance" is a vague and ambiguous
description and that people  from Mexico bear an array of appearances.

We suspect that Brignoni-Ponce and its incorporation into S.B. 1070 have escaped
the notice of many Americans because of the ways in which racial sensibilities
have evolved since the 1954 ruling in Brown v. Board of Education. Modern
American values and most of modern constitutional law are simply inconsistent
with the equation of race and suspicion authorized and encouraged by
Brignoni-Ponce. Today, being subject to questioning by law enforcement for no
other reason than that others of your race, religion or national origin are
supposed to commit more of a particular type of crime is nothing short of
un-American.

The federal lawsuit raises a number of questions. We think the government's
claim of federal preemption is likely to prevail: There is room for one
immigration law, not a 50-state patchwork of immigration laws. But the
discussion should not stop there. Perhaps that is why last Friday the League of
United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) filed another challenge focusing on S.B.
1070's potential for racial profiling. For the Arizona officials who enacted
S.B. 1070, the next step is to repeal the part of the law that authorizes racial
profiling. As for the legal system as a whole: Brignoni-Ponce has been
exceptional and out of the constitutional mainstream since it was decided. The
U.S. and Arizona Supreme Courts should reconsider the endorsement of race-based
law enforcement, which is contrary to modern notions of equality in America, and
conform constitutional law to the principles held dear by most  Americans.

Gabriel J. Chin is a professor at the University of Arizona Rogers College of
Law. Kevin R. Johnson is dean and a professor of public interest law and
Chicana/o studies at the University of California Davis School of Law.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                Regional Edition

How to get Arizona to play ball

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 155 words


Wade Henderson and Janet Murguia ["Arizona's strikeout," op-ed, July 12] said
that the imminent immigration law in Arizona is about scapegoating and not about
solving the immigration issue.

While I doubt that is true, if the law were as bad as Mr. Henderson and Ms.
Murguia claimed, and the risks to "our favorite all-stars . . . families,
friends and fans" as real as they argued, the proper focus of Major League
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig should be to prevent any team from playing
Arizona Diamondbacks home games (including Diamondbacks players) after July 29,
when the law takes effect.

That Mr. Henderson and Ms. Murguia chose to single out next year's All-Star Game
and ignore the remaining home games on the Diamondbacks' schedule this year
reveals their screed for what it was: a calculated, politically motivated cry
for attention on the eve of one of baseball's most high-profile events.

Lawrence W. Watthey, Frederick

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 22, 2010 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Uneasy in Arizona;
Town shows how immigration law could play out, in ways large and small

BYLINE: Stephanie McCrummen

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1748 words

DATELINE: BENSON, ARIZ.


Paul Moncada, the silver-haired police chief of this highway town, spent a
recent morning anxiously checking the TV for news about Arizona's controversial
new immigration law, set to take effect in a matter of days.

He sifted through stacks of state training materials, which still left him with
lots of questions. And he worried about the frustrated people in town who might
sue him for not enforcing the new law well enough, the frustrated people in town
who might accuse him of racial profiling and the thousands who cross the blazing
desert around here and whose lives he is also duty-bound to protect.

"There's pressure from all sides, and I understand all the sides," said Moncada,
56, who grew up here and has served on the force 34 years. "I'm just telling my
officers: Do your job. It's nerve-racking."

A federal judge has scheduled a hearing Thursday on an Obama administration
lawsuit, one of three challenging the Arizona law, which requires officers to
check the immigration status of people they arrest or cite for any violation if
they have "reasonable suspicion" the person is in the United States illegally.
The law has renewed the contentious national debate over immigration reform,
sparked huge protests in Tucson and Phoenix and spawned the possibility of
similar laws in other states.

Its effects have been somewhat quieter, if no less divisive, in Benson, a town
of about 5,000 people, a third of Hispanic descent, about an hour's drive from
the Mexican border. It is a tourist stopover and mostly working-class community
of flat-roofed adobe homes, pebbly RV parks and more upscale enclaves such as
San Pedro Ranches on the edges of town. And as elsewhere, the debate here has
mingled with an already trying situation. The troubled economy forced the state
to clip Benson's budget, and unemployment, foreclosures and minor crime linked
mostly to drug addicts has cast some gloom upon the city motto, "Hang out in
Benson!"

Some residents have come to associate a general sense of decline with illegal
immigration, which is visible here in the desert litter of backpacks and water
jugs, and in the crammed-full vans that drivers sometimes ditch along the
highways, sending passengers fleeing. In that context, the new law has inspired
feelings from profound unease to a kind of righteous victory, which often sort
along ethnic lines.

A sense of fear

"Amen" is what Danna Judd said when Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law in
April.

She and her husband, Bevin, a UPS salesman, moved from Tucson to a new house on
22 acres in San Pedro Ranches three years ago, but their rural-lifestyle fantasy
was quickly spoiled. They found stashes of clothes when they were out for desert
walks. They found a smuggler's van abandoned in their gravel driveway. More
recently, they arrived home with their two kids from an evening baseball game to
a scene of floodlights and U.S. Border Patrol agents scrambling across their
property.

"My neighbor called and said they were chasing around 20 people," Bevin Judd
said. They ushered the kids to bed, turned on all the lights and locked the
doors.

Like many who grew up in Benson, Bevin Judd remembers giving bread and water to
Mexican farmworkers who crossed through town when he was a kid. He remembers
leaving doors unlocked, keys in the car. "But now it almost seems like there's a
criminal element to it," he said. The sense that crime has increased with
illegal immigration isn't supported by either local or statewide crime
statistics, although that is difficult for some around here to believe.

"It makes you afraid," said Danna Judd, a deputy city clerk. "You don't know who
is out there. Are they drug smugglers? Do they have guns?"

To the Judds' relief, the one person who definitely does have guns is their
neighbor Bob Dekoschak, 62, who was cleaning out his horse barn in the late
afternoon. The wind blew the chimes. His wife, Elise, arrived home from work,
and they sat under ceiling fans in their library packed with James Michener
novels and books on Latin American culture.

"When we were moving here, we talked to a friend who said, 'Oh, and how armed
are you?' " explained Elise Dekoschak, 60, who works for the state government.

Bob Dekoschak, who works for an international software manufacturer, already had
a 12-gauge shotgun, but he bought two more, along with a .357 magnum.

As the sun sank into the crumbled landscape, the Dekoschaks talked of feeling
isolated from law enforcement, which is spread so thin. They talked about the
things they blame, at least partly, on illegal immigration: the state's failing
schools, the closed hospitals, strained local budgets. They question its
comparative benefits of cheap lettuce and cheap houses that helped drive
Arizona's boom years.

"When Brewer brought this forth, she did it for those of us on the front lines,"
Bob Dekoschak said. "Those of us armed. Those of us with illegals running
through our yards. We can't keep placating the Hispanic community. What we need
is a division of Marines . . . "

He paused. Elise held up her hand. "Wait," she said. "What's that?"

A chopping noise; a helicopter, they decided. Maybe Border Patrol.

No practical effect?

In the police station, Moncada was listening to radio calls. An officer was
investigating a burglary suspect; another was checking out a
crystal-methamphetamine lab; a highway patrol officer had stopped two men in a
car and needed a Spanish speaker.

"I guess that's me," said Moncada, one of two Hispanic Americans on the force of
16 officers. He walked out into the 105-degree noon and sped off in his gray
Chevy.

"I don't know what it is," he said, gliding onto Interstate 10. "But if you work
in the southern part of Arizona, you should speak Spanish."

At the scene, the patrol officer explained that he'd pulled over the burgundy
Dodge Falcon for speeding and following another car too closely. The driver had
produced a Mexican license and a proper visa. The passenger produced his legal
resident card. But the car was not registered to them. And after Moncada asked a
few questions, the two men's stories did not match.

Moncada watched the two men as the patrol officer searched the trunk, the door
frames, the engine, shining his flashlight into its crevices. Nothing. They let
the men go.

"I think he was running heat," the chief said of the driver, referring to a
common smuggling tactic around here, in which one car distracts the police so
others get through. He got back into his Chevy.

"With the new law," he said, rehearsing a future scenario, "nothing would have
changed on that stop."

And for Moncada, at least, that is the irony of the new law: Although
heightening fears and expectations, threatening lawsuits and creating confusion,
it is unlikely to change much about how his officers do their jobs, he said.

Already, if they stop a speeding van and people bail out running, officers
generally make the leap and call Border Patrol. The new law essentially requires
that call, along with one to verify the immigration status of every local drug
addict, drunk driver or shoplifter arrested after next Thursday, when the law
takes effect, barring an injunction. Although the law might play out differently
in other places, Moncada said, his police will not use it as an excuse to hunt
illegal immigrants. As a practical matter, he and other chiefs said, they are
simply too busy with regular crime.

"I really don't know if it will have any significant effect at all," the chief
said. "Will it fill the jails? Probably not. Will it be a deterrent? Probably
not."

He drove down Route 80, past a blur of beige desert, past the iron gate where
some ranchers found a body a few weeks ago.

"The poor guy was just laid out there," Moncada said, pointing to the spot. "We
didn't find any water jugs. No backpack. It was miserably hot that day, 109
degrees. You can only imagine what kind of death . . . "

'What's next?'

When the new law was introduced, Melissa Herrera-DiPeso, who runs a real estate
agency in town, interpreted it as a license for the police to racially profile
Hispanic Americans. This was based upon her memories of growing up in Tucson,
when some white parents didn't let their daughters play with her. In high
school, she had a white friend who was not allowed to have a Mexican boyfriend.
Now a successful, glamorous-looking woman with a son attending Stanford
University, she has been forced to wonder again how others see her.

"My white friends say, 'Oh, Melissa, you're making such a big deal of it,' " she
said, sitting in her office. "But they're white. They don't have to deal with
it."

She, too, is afraid of drug-related violence spilling over from Mexico. And like
everyone, she is hopeful that the controversy will push the federal government
to deal with immigration reform, although realistically, she figures it won't.
And so she worries, about news that a list of illegal immigrants was circulating
in Utah, about a mood of vigilantism that she believes Arizona's new law has
encouraged.

"There's so much anger and frustration," she said. "If this law doesn't work,
what's next?"

Wary of the effects

Down a gravel driveway, behind a locked gate, a man who preferred that only his
first name, Marco, be used, considered that question.

He arrived in Tucson seven years ago on a tourist visa, found work framing the
new houses. He got a paycheck then and paid taxes. He brought his wife and two
kids to join him, and they moved to Benson, where he works for a rancher.

"We're not just here to benefit," said Marco, 37. "We're also giving."

He rents a trailer where he sat down on an overstuffed couch in a room decorated
with frilly maroon curtains, his son's baseball trophies, family photos, two
paintings of Jesus and one of the Virgin of Guadalupe.

He is nervous about the new law, he said, and like everyone else, he is
preparing.

He has gathered all the documents he can find in a desperate hope that they
might satisfy police asking for papers: some invoices from a store he owns in
Mexico; a letter of recommendation from his home town's mayor. He plans to fix
the small crack in the windshield of the sedan he drives to work, an infraction
that could lead to his deportation if the law takes effect. He will try to look
friendly but unassuming.

"I always try to dress clean, not dirty, like I've been walking through the
desert," Marco said. Still, he worries about what might happen.

"Maybe it was a mistake to bring my family here," he said. "If it gets too
tough, I will go. Maybe California."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: 24 August, 2010



CORRECTION: A July 22 Page One article about how Arizona's new immigration law
has affected the town of Benson incorrectly described a car involved in a police
stop as a Dodge Falcon. There is no such model; the Falcon was made by Ford.
Police said the car pulled over was a Dodge, but they could not confirm which
model.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Joshua Lott For The Washington Post; Some illegal immigrants,
such as this ranch worker in Benson, Ariz., say they might leave the state if
the immigration law goes into effect.
IMAGE; Joshua Lott For The Washington Post; No-trespassing signs are posted at
Bob Dekoschak's property in Benson, Ariz. "We can't keep placating the Hispanic
community," he says.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Hearing begins on new Ariz. law;
Justice Department cites 'irreparable harm' in immigration legislation

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


A federal judge pushed back Thursday against a contention by the Obama Justice
Department that a tough new Arizona immigration law set to take effect next week
would cause "irreparable harm" and intrude into federal immigration enforcement.

"Why can't Arizona be as inhospitable as they wish to people who have entered or
remained in the United States?" U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton asked in a
pointed exchange with Deputy Solicitor General Edwin S. Kneedler. Her comment
came during a rare federal court hearing in the Justice Department's lawsuit
against Arizona and Gov. Jan Brewer (R).

Bolton, a Democratic appointee, also questioned a core part of the Justice
Department's argument that she should declare the law unconstitutional: that it
is "preempted" by federal law because immigration enforcement is an exclusive
federal prerogative.

"How is there a preemption issue?" the judge asked. "I understand there may be
other issues, but you're arguing preemption. Where is the preemption if
everybody who is arrested for some crime has their immigration status checked?"

At issue in Thursday's hearing, argued in a tan-colored "special proceedings"
courtroom" inside the federal courthouse, was whether Bolton would grant a
preliminary injunction to stop the law from taking effect while the federal
lawsuit proceeds.

As dozens of protesters marched outside, the hearing marked the first round in
the Obama administration's effort to stop the state's crackdown on illegal
immigration. The tension in the courtroom reflected a broader national debate
over what has become a politically divisive issue: whether police should have
the power to question people they suspect are in the United States illegally.

"The regulation of immigration is unquestionably, exclusively, a federal power,"
Kneedler told a rapt courtroom. Brewer, whose fierce criticism of the federal
lawsuit has helped her popularity at home, watched silently from the front row,
drawing a "Good afternoon, Governor" from the judge.

Attorneys for Brewer argued with equal force that the legislation, scheduled to
take effect next Thursday,  is a legal expression of a sovereign state's right
to secure its borders against a tide of illegal immigration. The federal
government, the lawyers said, has failed to act.

"We keep hearing that we can't really do anything about these illegal aliens --
Arizona should just deal with it," said John J. Bouma, Arizona's lead attorney.
"Well, the status quo is simply unacceptable."

The law, which Brewer signed in April, empowers police to question people they
have a "reasonable suspicion" are illegal immigrants and to send them to federal
authorities for possible deportation. President Obama has strongly condemned the
law, and the Justice Department filed suit July 6, setting up an unusual clash
between the federal government and a state over who should enforce the nation's
immigration laws.

Bolton did not indicate how she might rule, saying only that she will take the
matter "under advisement." But she did subject Justice Department lawyers to
some pointed questions.

Kneedler responded to her query about why Arizona authorities don't have the
right to be inhospitable to illegal immigrants by saying the law has given the
state the power to enforce immigration law "in, frankly, an unprecedented and
dramatic way."

"It is not for one of our states to be inhospitable in the way this statute
does," Kneedler said, citing as his main argument the legal doctrine of
"preemption."

Based on the Constitution's supremacy clause, it says federal law trumps state
statutes. Because the federal government has "preeminent authority to regulate
immigration matters," the government's lawsuit argues, the Arizona law must be
struck down.

Bolton questioned key parts of that argument, especially relating to a section
of the law that appears to require immigration-status checks if police stop
someone for another law enforcement purpose and suspect the person is an illegal
immigrant.

Kneedler said the conflict with federal law comes because the status checks are
mandatory, which could lead to federal agencies being overwhelmed with
deportation requests. Top officials at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
whose agents will handle most of the calls from Arizona authorities if the law
takes effect, have said they will not necessarily respond to every call.

"There really is no flexibility," Kneedler said.

He added that the Arizona law might lead to police harassment of U.S. citizens
and is threatening to harm vital cooperation along the border with Mexican
authorities, who have strongly condemned the law. "These are very concrete
harms, very substantial foreign policy concerns," he said.

Bouma ridiculed the foreign policy concerns.

"Foreign outrage doesn't make the law preempted," he said. He accused the Obama
administration of ignoring requests from Brewer and numerous other governors for
more help in securing the border.

"You can't catch them if you don't know about them," he said. "And they don't
want to know about them."

Bolton is hearing six other lawsuits filed against the Arizona law. A former
Arizona state court judge, she was nominated for the federal bench by Democratic
President Bill Clinton, but legal observers say she is hard to pigeonhole
ideologically.

Outside the gleaming glass-and-white iron courthouse, named for former Supreme
Court justice Sandra Day O'Connor, an angry subtext reflected the divide over
how to handle the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Opponents of the Arizona law clasped hands, prayed and held signs condemning it.

"The law is racist. The police are harassing us because of our brown skin," said
Marta Calderon, who sat next to a painting of the Virgin Mary affixed with a
sign saying "Stop SB1070," as the immigration law is known.

Nearby, Brandy Baron waved an American flag and expressed her support for the
law and her "disgust" at efforts to overturn it.

"I am amazed that the Justice Department would have the nerve to sue us for
trying to get laws that are already on the books enforced," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ross D. Franklin/associated Press; Jerry Harris, a supporter of
Arizona's new immigration law, argues with Elizabeth Venable, who opposes it, in
front of a federal courthouse in Phoenix. U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton is
holding hearings on the law.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Restraining Arizona;
A federal judge takes a good first step toward overturning a bad law.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 415 words


THE DECISION by U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton to block the enforcement of
several provisions of a controversial Arizona immigration law is a good first
step toward reversing a discriminatory measure that should never have been
adopted.

Most important, Judge Bolton was right to prevent state law enforcement officers
from demanding immigration papers from those they "reasonably" believe are in
the United States illegally. The judge noted that such stops would probably
mean that legal residents and U.S. citizens would  be "swept up" by this
obnoxious and patently xenophobic requirement. She also put a hold on
enforcement of a new provision that would have subjected immigrants to criminal
penalties  for failing to apply for or carry alien registration papers. These
provisions were set to go into effect Thursday. The judge must decide in coming
weeks whether the parts of the law she froze in place should be permanently
struck down as unconstitutional.

The Phoenix-based judge's decision came in the wake of a challenge from the
Justice Department, which argued that the Arizona law usurped the federal
government's exclusive constitutional authority to establish immigration policy.
The department also argued that the state's interference in immigration policies
would impermissibly force the federal government to redirect resources away from
the priorities established by the U.S. government and that such interference
would trample on the federal government's prerogatives regarding foreign policy.

These arguments did not always carry the day. The judge, for example, analyzed
each part of the law individually, declining the Justice Department's invitation
to find the entire law constitutionally offensive. Using this approach, the
judge concluded that Arizona was within its bounds in allowing legal residents
of the state to sue state officials or agencies that restrict enforcement of
federal immigration laws. We would have preferred a broader ruling striking down
the law in its entirety, but Judge Bolton issued a thoughtful and well-reasoned
decision that merits respect.

There is little doubt that some on the right will find reason to berate Judge
Bolton and use her decision as political fodder to stir up anti-immigrant,
anti-court and anti-federal sentiment. This would be wrong. What is needed is
not more vitriol but increased cooperation in crafting a comprehensive federal
immigration reform bill to address the legitimate concerns of states such as
Arizona.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Judge in Arizona decision is well versed in immigration cases

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 703 words


The federal judge who blocked key aspects of Arizona's new immigration law was
so well regarded across the political spectrum that she was nominated to the
federal bench by President Bill Clinton, a Democrat, who tapped her on the
recommendation of Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), one of Congress's most conservative
senators.

This week, however, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton became one of the nation's
most divisive figures, after halting much of Arizona's high-profile effort to
identify and deport illegal immigrants.

Hate mail and threats flowed into her court offices, according to news reports.
Conservative bloggers decried her "activist" leanings and accused her of falling
in with the American Civil Liberties Union, a prominent challenger of the law
and a favorite target of the right. And Kyl, who during Bolton's nomination
hearings in 2000 lauded her expertise and fairness, did not conceal his
disappointment.

"I really thought that she would uphold most of the law and allow Arizona to try
to do its best to enforce the law to the extent that the federal government
wasn't doing so," he said on the Fox News program "Happening Now."

Bolton is no stranger to controversy or to cases that might elicit death
threats. Since beginning her career as a judge in 1989, she has taken on Mexican
smugglers, civil libertarians and members of the Arizona legislature. While a
Superior Court justice in Maricopa County, she handled some of the most complex
and delicate cases to come before the court, a colleague said. In her decade on
the federal bench, she has overseen cases that touched on border issues.

No other case, however, has thrust her into the national spotlight like her
decision Wednesday to block the most contentious parts of Arizona's law,
including provisions that would have required police officers to check the
immigration status of people they arrest. People close to Bolton said she is a
meticulous jurist who is not easily shaken by such attention.

"Put it this way: Susan has never been accused of being a coward," said retired
Superior Court Judge Ken Fields, who worked alongside Bolton for a decade.
"She's probably the perfect judge to have for this case. She analyzes the facts
and makes a decision without bias one way or the other."

Bolton, 58, a Philadelphia native, attended college and law school in Iowa.
Shortly after receiving her law degree, she joined a firm in the Phoenix suburb
of Tempe. She served on the state Superior Court for Maricopa County from 1989
until 2000, when she was appointed to the federal bench.

During her tenure, she has handled numerous cases related to illegal
immigration. In 2001, she presided over the case of a smuggler sentenced to 16
years in prison for leading 14 illegal immigrants to their deaths in the desert.
A year later, she dismissed a suit by legal U.S. residents against Border Patrol
agents accused of racial profiling in a 1997 immigration raid.

In a 2000 decision that angered some politicians, she removed from the ballot a
growth-control measure backed by the state legislature, ruling it
unconstitutional. It had been proposed as an alternative to an
environmentalist-backed measure.

Friends and colleagues say Bolton is hardworking, intelligent and exceptionally
confident in the courtroom. Lawyers who have brought cases before her say she is
well prepared and thorough, prone to asking her questions of witnesses as she
gathers information to rule on a case.

John Randolph, who knows her from her days in private practice in Tempe in the
1970s and 1980s, said she had an "intellectual interest in the arguments"
related to violence against women. In 1987, she co-authored with her husband,
Frank G. Bolton, the book "Working With Violent Families: A Guide for Clinical
and Legal Practitioners."

Randolph described Bolton as intellectually curious and well versed on subjects
ranging from art to world affairs, which they would often talk about at length
with their spouses over the dinner table, but said she has never tipped her hand
on her political views.

"She was very difficult to figure out politically," he said. "I couldn't figure
it out then, and I can't figure it out now."

Research editor Alice Crites contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; People close to U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton say she is
meticulous in court and intellectually curious.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

An undesirable inheritance;
U.S.-born kids of illegal immigrants twice as likely as others to face poverty

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 2149 words


Eight-year-old Alex picked up a 75-cent can of fruit punch from one of the
grocery store's shelves and called excitedly to his mother in Spanish.

"Mami! Can we buy something to drink?"

Maria, 38, gave her stocky third-grader a sympathetic smile. She'd already made
Alex and his 3-year-old sister, Emelyn, walk 30 minutes under a broiling sun
from their house in suburban Maryland to the Safeway, the closest place that
accepts Emelyn's federal milk and cereal vouchers. Then they'd trekked 20
minutes more to this cheaper Latino grocery so Maria, an illegal immigrant from
Mexico who can't afford a car and wouldn't be eligible for a driver's license
anyway, could save $3.40 on chicken.

"At home, my son," Maria said soothingly. "When we get home, you can drink some
water."

"But I'm really thirsty," Alex persisted.

"No, son. At home."

"But I need to drink now."

"No! No!" snapped Maria. "I already said, 'No!' "

She hates these moments, she said later -- these unavoidable reminders of the
hardships her U.S.-born children face because she and their father, Luis, are
illegal immigrants.

Of all the disadvantages that U.S.-born children of Hispanic immigrants might
confront, none is more significant than being raised by parents who are in the
country illegally.

Forty percent -- or 3.3 million of these children -- have at least one parent
who is an illegal immigrant, mostly from Mexico or Central America, according to
a recent analysis of census data by demographer Jeffrey S. Passel of the Pew
Hispanic Center. And researchers warn that the long-term consequences for the
country could be profound.

"The fact that so many in this population face these initial disadvantages has
huge implications in terms of their education, their future labor market
experience, their integration in the broader society, and their political
participation," said Roberto Gonzales, a professor at the University of
Washington who has studied this generation.

The most immediate result has been a substantial increase in the number of
American children growing up in poverty. Partly because illegal immigrants tend
to have low levels of education and partly because their immigration status
makes it harder to move up the job ladder, their U.S.-born children are almost
twice as likely to be poor as the children of legal immigrants or native
parents, the Pew Hispanic Center found.

To supporters of immigrants, that's an argument for offering a path to
legalization for the adults in "mixed-status families." These are households in
which the parents are in the country illegally while their U.S.-born children
are entitled to all the benefits and aid that their parents are not.

"When you talk about someone who is undocumented, the chances are extremely high
that they are in a mixed-status family. . . . Legalization would be one of the
best anti-poverty strategies we could employ," said Frank Sharry, executive
director of the advocacy group America's Voice.

But advocates for stricter immigration laws see these families as one of the
most compelling reasons to clamp down on illegal immigration.

"Not because [illegal immigrants] are ripping us off or don't work hard," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, "but
because they're collecting benefits for their children. In our society, people
with a fifth-grade education can hold two or three jobs and still not afford to
support their families. There's no way for them to avoid putting a strain on the
social-welfare system."

A family on the edge

Alex's parents, who spoke on the condition that the family's last name and
address not be identified, have been struggling for the past two years, ever
since Luis was fired from his construction job for using a false Social Security
number.

Luis, a 27-year-old Guatemalan, said he picked up valuable skills as an
electrician during his four years with the construction company. But since he
was let go, he has only landed occasional jobs as a day laborer, earning no more
than $200 a week, and often far less.

Maria's efforts to supplement their income by babysitting children in their
house brings in an additional $100. Nearly all of the children's clothing and
toys and much of their food are paid for by Maria's sister, who is also an
illegal immigrant but who is having more success cleaning houses and has no
children.

It was early evening as Alex, a sturdily built boy with close-cropped black
hair, almond-shaped eyes and pronounced front teeth, sprawled on his Spider-Man
sheets to watch a "SpongeBob SquarePants" cartoon -- his body convulsing in
giggles at the antics on the screen.

Downstairs in the kitchen, his father stared at a bill from Pepco.

"It says we need to pay $287 in two weeks, or they'll cut off the power," said
Luis. "I don't know what to do. We're already behind on the rent. But we need
the electricity to run Alex's asthma machine."

The thought of applying for help from the government did not occur to Luis: He
knows illegal immigrants are barred from almost all forms of public assistance.
But as U.S. citizens, his children are eligible, not only for energy aid but
also for all government relief programs.

Emelyn receives $50 to $70 per month in federal checks to cover milk and other
basics, while Alex gets free lunch and breakfast at school and has received
treatment for his asthma through Medicaid, the health insurance program for the
poor.

But Maria's anxieties about her legal status have prevented her from getting the
children food stamps, which can be prorated to cover only eligible members of a
household.

So paranoid about running afoul of immigration authorities that she avoids
taking buses and hanging out in malls, Maria finally worked up the nerve to put
in an application for food stamps last winter. But when she got a letter
requesting more documentation of the children's citizenship, she let the matter
drop.

"They ask you so many questions at that office," she said. "It makes me
nervous."

Maria also was having difficulty renewing Alex's Medicaid. She used to present a
letter from Luis's boss attesting to his salary, but that was no longer
possible, and she wasn't aware that there were other ways of establishing their
income.

Her experience mirrors that of many illegal immigrants, whose U.S.-born children
are far less likely to get health insurance than the children of legal
immigrants or the native-born.

The expired Medicaid has already had consequences for Alex. Though he still has
enough medication cartridges for the machine he uses to help him breathe at
home, unless he gets a new inhaler, the nurse can't treat him at school. He's
already missed nearly three weeks of school because of asthma flare-ups.

Sometimes, as she contemplates the price her children are paying, Maria wonders
whether she should have ever left Mexico.

She grew up along a main rail line in a southern town, where her widowed mother
ran a small grocery and often gave food and shelter to the bedraggled Central
American stowaways passing through on their journey north.

One of them was Luis, who'd dropped out of high school to head to the United
States and escape the far more severe poverty of his childhood in Guatemala
City.

Maria fell in love with the younger, soft-spoken Guatemalan migrant and eagerly
agreed to join him in Maryland when he sent money for a smuggler to bring her to
him. At the time, she was nine months pregnant with Alex, who was born at Holy
Cross Hospital in Silver Spring.

Initially, they lived in a small, dank basement that Maria believes fueled
Alex's asthma. In the eight years since, the family has slowly improved their
living quarters. Most recently, they've moved to a small, two-story brick house
in Montgomery County, subletting the basement, the den off the living room and
one of the three bedrooms to five separate tenants.

It's not clear how much longer they'll be able to afford this arrangement. At
least partly due to the strain of their financial troubles, the couple, who
never officially married, are considering separating.

Even with their future so unsettled, Maria said she feels it's too late to
return to Mexico. Her closest siblings all now live in the United States. Luis
has no doubt his children should remain here.

"Yes, they live poorly," he said, "but they're still so much better off than if
they were in Guatemala."

Anxiety's staying power

How all this early adversity will play out for Alex and the millions of other
U.S.-born offspring of illegal immigrants is hard to predict. Most are still
young. A recent in-depth survey of those in their late teens and early 20s
suggests many carry the burden well beyond childhood, said Roberto Gonzales, the
professor who conducted the study. Most of those interviewed felt a
responsibility to help their parents by getting jobs at an early age,
contributing $400 to $600 a month even as they struggled to complete high school
or go to college.

"This impacts their own ability to save or to move into better neighborhoods,
which then affects their own children," noted Gonzales.

There is also the sometimes-subtle-but-still-powerful psychological impact of
knowing that their parents don't have the same rights as them and can
theoretically be locked up and deported at any moment.

Vanessa Castillo remembers that anxiety well. As a child, her grandmother would
call her into the house and draw the curtains at the sight of UPS trucks, which
she mistook for immigration enforcement.

Her Mexican-born parents and grandmother eventually received legal status
through a 1986 amnesty. Yet "even now, I'm very conscious of walking in
somewhere and being cautious of making sure that I fit in, that this is a crowd
that will make me feel like I belong," said Castillo, a 31-year-old college
graduate who works for a child abuse prevention group in Southern California. "I
guess I shouldn't really feel that because I was born here, and I have rights
just like everybody else. But the truth is that there's always that fear, that
sense that I will be questioned."

Alex's ambitions

Alex got his first inkling of his parents' precarious legal situation when "El
Show de Cristina," a popular program on Spanish-language television, featured
children whose parents chose to leave them in the United States when they were
deported.

"For the next couple of weeks he'd say to me over and over again, 'Mami, I don't
want you to go,' " said Maria. " 'I don't want to be without a mom and a dad.' "

But even if his parents are never threatened with deportation, their immigration
status is curtailing Alex's prospects in other ways.

Once Maria mused that her son could become a lawyer or an electrical engineer.
Now she and Luis are too focused on their day-to-day struggles to think about
the future. Sure, it would be nice if their son could go to college, they say.
"But honestly, I see very little possibility of that," said Maria. "It's so
expensive."

Alex already appears to have absorbed that message.

In many ways he's a typical American boy -- decorating the walls of his tiny
bedroom with drawings of dinosaurs and becoming animated as he describes the
Transformer costume he wore for Halloween. He's attentive and obedient at his
Montgomery County elementary school, where nearly all the children are also
offspring of poor immigrants. And he's in the top reading and math groups of his
third-grade class.

Yet ask Alex what he thinks he might do when he grows up, and he looks surprised
at the question. "I don't know," he mumbled. "A construction worker, maybe?"
Then he perked up, remembering one of his mother's past jobs. "Or maybe I'll go
to work at McDonald's."

To spend a day with Alex at school is to watch him grapple with obstacles that
might further limit his ambitions.

He started kindergarten speaking almost no English, and though he graduated from
the English for Speakers of Other Languages program last year, his teachers warn
that he faces a long road to true fluency.

"I can't tell you how many kids who are technically not in ESOL have serious
language issues," his writing teacher said, after helping Alex through a
letter-writing assignment. "He has real difficulty processing the meaning of
what he hears and then organizing his thoughts and producing a response."

Though Maria graduated from high school in Mexico, giving her more education
than many Hispanic immigrant parents, she can't offer Alex much help. His math
homework that day was an assignment about expressing numbers through words.

"I don't understand any of this," Maria muttered under her breath as she looked
it over. She handed the worksheet to her son, who lay on the living room floor.

"Well, you should do it now, before we go out," she said.

Alex frowned at the paper.

"But I don't understand this. I can't do it."

"Just do it. Stop squirming. Concentrate, Alex."

Half an hour later, he handed Maria the page. It was riddled with errors.

"Good," she said. "Good job, my son."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ricky Carioti/the Washington Post; Three-year-old Emelyn plays
with her 8-year-old brother, Alex, in his bedroom in their small house in
Montgomery County. The children were born in the United States to Hispanic
parents who are both in the country illegally.
IMAGE; Photos By Ricky Carioti/the Washington Post; Maria, who, like her
husband, is in the country illegally, prepares dinner for the family. Maria's
anxieties about her legal status have prevented her from getting her U.S.-born
children food stamps, which can be prorated to cover only eligible members of a
household. Below, Maria combs 3-year-old Emelyn's hair.
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 30, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

N. Korea detains a second U.S. citizen

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 156 words


North Korea has notified the United States that it has another American in
custody for allegedly entering the country illegally, the State Department
announced Friday.

Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said that the North Koreans, in a bare-bones
message through their United Nations representative, provided no identifying
information   -- no name or gender and no details of the alleged offense.

This is the second case of a detained American in North Korea to surface in the
past month, further complicating a relationship that has been strained for years
over North Korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons and periodic test-firing of
missiles in defiance of U.N. Security Council warnings.

In late December, North Korea said it was holding a U.S. citizen for illegally
entering through the North Korea-China border. It did not identify the man, but
the State Department has said he is Robert Park, an American missionary.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 16, 2010 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Harry Reid's immigration flip-flop

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 118 words


Harold Meyerson ["Afraid of the babies," op-ed, Aug. 11] called the GOP's effort
to end automatic citizenship for U.S.-born children of tourists and illegal
aliens a "Republican war on the 14th Amendment's citizenship clause."

Before that, E.J. Dionne Jr. ["Is the GOP shedding a birthright?," op-ed, Aug.
5] chastised Republicans for turning the 14th Amendment into "an excuse for
election-year ugliness." Before beating too hard on those mean-spirited
Republicans, the columnists should not forget that none other than Sen. (now
Senate Majority Leader) Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) introduced legislation in 1993
that would have denied birthright citizenship to illegal aliens' children.

William W. Chip, Washington

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Survivor: Drug gang massacred 72 migrants in northern Mexico

BYLINE: William Booth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 877 words


MEXICO CITY - A survivor  of a massacre in northern Mexico told investigators
that the 72 people found dead on a ranch were undocumented migrants who were
kidnapped by a drug gang on their way to the U.S. border.

Mexican authorities discovered the bodies late Tuesday about 100 miles south of
Brownsville, Tex., near the town of San Fernando.

The surrounding state of Tamaulipas is the scene of a vicious struggle between
rival drug mafias and Mexican forces that has left hundreds dead and important
trade cities besieged by gun battles,  kidnapping and extortion.

The bodies of 58 men and 14 women were discovered after Mexican marines manning
a checkpoint were approached by a wounded man who said he had been held hostage
and shot by gang gunmen at a nearby ranch.

The survivor, who has been hospitalized and said he was originally from Ecuador,
told his story to state prosecutors, according to a report Wednesday on the Web
site of the newspaper Reforma.

The witness said about 75 migrants from Central and South America were traveling
together toward the Texas border when they were kidnapped by armed men, who
authorities suspect may work for the paramilitary drug cartel known as the
Zetas.

The survivor said that when the migrants refused to pay money, their captors
began shooting them. When Mexican forces arrived at the scene, the assailants
scattered and fled. No arrests have been announced. It was unclear whether the
dead had been shot all at once or over several days.

Illegal migrants traveling through Mexico on their way to the United States
often face a harrowing journey - robbed, raped and sometimes killed by smugglers
and crime gangs, which often work alongside corrupt police.

Mexico detained and deported more than 64,000 illegal migrants last year,
according to the National Migration Institute. Many more make it across the U.S.
border. The National Commission on Human Rights, a government agency, estimates
that 20,000 are kidnapped in Mexico each year.

While they are held for ransom, migrants are routinely threatened with
execution, beaten with clubs and shocked with electricity.

As Mexico's U.S.-backed, military-led war against criminal organizations rages
on, leaving more than 28,000 dead, authorities are discovering mass graves.

In July, investigators found 51 corpses near a trash dump outside the northern
city of Monterrey. Many of their identities remain unknown.

In May, authorities discovered as many as 64 bodies in a ventilation shaft for a
shuttered mining operation near the tourist town of Taxco. Many of the bound and
gagged victims were alive when they were thrown down the hole.

MEXICO CITY - A survivor  of a massacre in northern Mexico told investigators
that the 72 people found dead at a ranch were undocumented migrants who were
kidnapped by a drug gang on their way to the U.S. border.

Mexican authorities discovered the bodies late Tuesday about 100 miles south of
Brownsville, Texas, near the town of San Fernando. The surrounding state of
Tamaulipas is the scene of a vicious struggle between rival drug mafias and
Mexican forces that has left hundreds dead and important trade cities besieged
by gun battles,  kidnapping and extortion.

The bodies of 58 men and 14 women were discovered after Mexican marines manning
a checkpoint were approached by a wounded man who said he had been held hostage
and shot by gang gunmen at a nearby ranch.

The survivor, who has been hospitalized and said he was originally from Ecuador,
told his story to state prosecutors, according to a report Wednesday on the Web
site of the newspaper Reforma.

The witness said about 75 migrants from Central and South America were traveling
together toward the Texas border when they were kidnapped by armed men, who
authorities suspect may work for the paramilitary drug cartel known as the
Zetas.

The survivor said that when the migrants refused to pay money, their captors
began shooting them. When Mexican forces arrived at the scene, the assailants
scattered and fled. No arrests have been announced. It was unclear whether the
dead had been shot all at once or over several days.

Illegal migrants traveling through Mexico on their way to the United States
often face a harrowing journey -  robbed, raped and sometimes murdered by
smugglers and crime gangs, who often work alongside corrupt police.

Mexico detained and deported more than 64,000 illegal migrants last year,
according to the National Migration Institute. Many more make it across the U.S.
border. The National Commission on Human Rights, a government agency, estimates
that 20,000 are kidnapped in Mexico each year.

While they are held for ransom, migrants are routinely tortured -  threatened
with execution, beaten with clubs and shocked with electricity.

As Mexico's U.S.-backed, military-led war against criminal organizations rages
on, leaving more than 28,000 dead, authorities are discovering mass graves.

In July, investigators found 51 corpses near a trash dump outside the northern
city of Monterrey. Many of their identities remain unknown.

In May, authorities discovered as many as 64 bodies in a ventilation shaft for a
shuttered mining operation near the tourist town of Taxco. Many of the bound and
gagged victims were alive when they were thrown down the hole.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Cartel victims identified, car bomber strikes in northern Mexico

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 680 words


Working in an overflowing morgue in the northern border state of Tamaulipas,
forensic investigators have begun to identify the bodies of 72 illegal migrants
executed by drug cartel gunmen after they allegedly refused to work for their
captors.

Officials said Friday that 14 of the executed migrants were from Honduras, 12
from El Salvador, four from Guatemala and one Brazilian.

As condemnation rained on Mexico for its failure to protect illegal immigrants
on their way to the U.S. border, a car bomb exploded outside the studios of the
national Televisa network in the nearby state capital of Ciudad Victoria.

It was the third major car bombing in Mexico in two months. No one was injured
in the blast.

Meanwhile, President Felipe Calderon announced that Roberto Jaime Suarez, a
state prosecutor, had disappeared two days ago in the town of San Fernando,
along with a transit police officer, while they were investigating the massacre.

A security spokesman for Calderon said the Zetas, a paramilitary drug cartel,
kidnapped the migrants and tried to force them to work for them.

Also Friday, the State Department said that children of diplomatic personnel in
Monterrey, Mexico's business capital, must leave next month, following a deadly
gun battle there last week outside a school.

Calderon said the criminals have no morals, no scruples, adding, "And the only
way to stop them is with our security forces, which necessarily is going to
bring, at least in the short term, more violence."

Yemen's government and northern rebels have agreed to bolster a fragile truce
and start a political dialogue to end a civil war that has raged on and off
since 2004.

The deal was signed in the Persian Gulf state of Qatar, where Yemeni officials
and rebels have been in talks since Tuesday, members of both delegations said
Friday.

Successful implementation of the deal would come as a relief to the government,
which is struggling to curb a rising southern separatist movement and a
resurgent al-Qaeda wing that has increasingly targeted the state in recent
months.

Burma's junta carried out a major military reshuffle Friday that retired more
than a dozen senior leaders, officials said, in an apparent move to prepare for
November national elections.

There were conflicting reports about whether the top two junta leaders - Senior
Gen. Than Shwe and his second-in-command, Gen. Maung Aye - also stepped down
from the military while retaining their respective posts as the junta's chairman
and vice chairman.

Than Shwe has ruled the country since 1992.

The government portrays the elections as a key step toward shifting to civilian
rule after five decades of military domination, but critics call them a sham and
say the military shows little sign of relinquishing control.

Sudan's Bashir attends Kenyan ceremony undisturbed: Kenya chose not to arrest
Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir on International Criminal Court charges
of genocide when he arrived for a ceremony to mark the East African nation's new
constitution. The ICC, to which Kenya is a signatory, accuses Bashir of war
crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide in Sudan's Darfur region. Bashir
denies the charges.

3 U.S. troops killed in Afghanistan: Homemade bombs killed three U.S. troops in
southern and eastern Afghanistan, and a roadside blast tore through a crowded
market in the increasingly volatile north, killing three policemen and two
civilians. NATO gave no other details about the attacks on the U.S. troops.

Floods displace 1 million in southern Pakistan: Floodwaters that have reached
the Indus River delta displaced at least 1 million southern Pakistan residents
in the past two days, U.N. officials said. In central and northern Pakistan,
floodwaters have begun to recede, but in the southern province of Sindh, they
are wreaking havoc, mostly in the Qambar-Shadadkot and Thatta regions.

Mining strike threatened in S. Africa: South Africa's largest union threatened
to bring gold and platinum mining and other industries to a halt next week in a
strike to support a labor stoppage by 1.3 million state workers.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Christopher J. Garner

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PG17

LENGTH: 740 words

Christopher J. Garner

Age: 59

Residence: Annapolis.

Education: BSME, School of Engineering, University of Maryland.

Occupation: Chief operating officer, UVO3; owner, SPW Properties.

Elected offices/civic activities: Volunteer, youth lacrosse, little league
baseball, age group track, Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, youth work camp helping to
repair homes.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"The most urgent problem facing Maryland and the United States is the loss of
jobs and industrial base. The Democratic Party has failed the workers of
America. Local examples of foolish decisions are the ones Maryland's governor
and the state legislature have made by firing, furloughing, laying off and
reducing the pay of state employees to fund illegal aliens' health care. These
same illegals offering cheap labor have caused the loss of over 20,000 small
Maryland contracting firms and account for massive outlays of over $1.2 billion
of state funds. Most of these illegals don't pay taxes."

Why should voters elect you?

"I am for term limits, fiscal responsibility, rebuilding of the U.S. industrial
base, true health care reform and removal of all illegal aliens."

Web site:

http://www.garnerforsenate.com

E-mail address:

chrisgarner@garnerforsenate.com

A. Billy Bob Jaworski

Did not respond.

Barbara A. Mikulski*

Age: 74

Residence: Baltimore.

Education: BA, sociology, Mt. St. Agnes College; MSW, social work, University of
Maryland.

Occupation: U.S. senator, Maryland.

Elected offices/civic activities: Baltimore City Council, 1971-77; U.S. House of
Representatives, 3rd District, 1977-87; U.S. Senate, 1987-present.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Wherever I go in Maryland, people are worried about jobs and the economy.Â
People are mortgage poor and tuition poor. They're socked by health care bills
and energy bills that get bigger every month.Â They're worried about losing
their job. In these tough economic times, people need someone who gets what
they're going through and knows how to fight for them. They need a government on
their side thats as frugal and thrifty as they are. There's a lot more to do to
turn this economy around, put people back to work, and create opportunities for
our kids."

Why should voters elect you?

"I'm a leader.Â  I've been effective.Â  I have a framework for the future.Â  I'm
a reformer, fighting for a safer country, stronger economy, smarter government."

Web site:

http://www.senatorbarb.com

E-mail address:

sward@senatorbarb.com

Theresa C. Scaldaferri

Did not respond.

Blaine Taylor

Age: 63

Residence: Towson.

Education: BA, history, Towson University.

Occupation: Book author.

Elected offices/civic activities: Press aide and press secretary to Maryland
member of Congress, 1991-92; member, Baltimore County Commission on Aging,
1981-84; member, Baltimore County Animal Welfare Hearing Board, 1981-84; member,
Neighborhood Design Center, 1975-76; member, Baltimore City Animal Control
Commission, 1974-76; Student Government Association Senator, Towson University,
1970-72.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Unemployment, the economy, jobs, taxes and the three ongoing overseas wars: all
interlinked. My platform slogan is: End all the wars."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will vote to end ALL our current wars, as well as all foreign aid funding to
the state of Israel."

Web site:

None given.

E-mail address:

blainetaylor@comcast.net

Sanquetta Taylor

Did not respond.

Lih Young

Age: 69

Residence: Fallsmead.

Education: PhD, MA, economics, City University of New York; BA, National Taiwan
University.

Occupation: Television producer, host, speaker.

Elected offices/civic activities: None given.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Murder, fraud, crime, injustice networks, cruel tyranny. Official misconduct,
threat, coercion, victimization, discrimination, injuries, torture; endless
immoral, unlawful, unethical acts; destruction/deprivation; false information,
excuses, arrest, kidnap, hostage/ransom; frivolous litigation, levies,
foreclosures; improper processing of complaints, proceedings, docketing."

Why should voters elect you?

"Reformer, advocate, activist; strong expertise, commitment for people; to solve
socio-political-election, media, budget, problems; promote freedom, justice,
peace; accountability, cost-effectiveness; fair election, trade, legislation."

Web site:

http://www.vote-md.org/intro.aspx?id=mdyounglih

E-mail address:

lyoung2k@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday

Survivor: Drug gang massacred 72 migrants in northern Mexico

LENGTH: 877 words


MEXICO CITY - A survivor  of a massacre in northern Mexico told investigators
that the 72 people found dead on a ranch were undocumented migrants who were
kidnapped by a drug gang on their way to the U.S. border.

Mexican authorities discovered the bodies late Tuesday about 100 miles south of
Brownsville, Tex., near the town of San Fernando.

The surrounding state of Tamaulipas is the scene of a vicious struggle between
rival drug mafias and Mexican forces that has left hundreds dead and important
trade cities besieged by gun battles,  kidnapping and extortion.

The bodies of 58 men and 14 women were discovered after Mexican marines manning
a checkpoint were approached by a wounded man who said he had been held hostage
and shot by gang gunmen at a nearby ranch.

The survivor, who has been hospitalized and said he was originally from Ecuador,
told his story to state prosecutors, according to a report Wednesday on the Web
site of the newspaper Reforma.

The witness said about 75 migrants from Central and South America were traveling
together toward the Texas border when they were kidnapped by armed men, who
authorities suspect may work for the paramilitary drug cartel known as the
Zetas.

The survivor said that when the migrants refused to pay money, their captors
began shooting them. When Mexican forces arrived at the scene, the assailants
scattered and fled. No arrests have been announced. It was unclear whether the
dead had been shot all at once or over several days.

Illegal migrants traveling through Mexico on their way to the United States
often face a harrowing journey - robbed, raped and sometimes killed by smugglers
and crime gangs, which often work alongside corrupt police.

Mexico detained and deported more than 64,000 illegal migrants last year,
according to the National Migration Institute. Many more make it across the U.S.
border. The National Commission on Human Rights, a government agency, estimates
that 20,000 are kidnapped in Mexico each year.

While they are held for ransom, migrants are routinely threatened with
execution, beaten with clubs and shocked with electricity.

As Mexico's U.S.-backed, military-led war against criminal organizations rages
on, leaving more than 28,000 dead, authorities are discovering mass graves.

In July, investigators found 51 corpses near a trash dump outside the northern
city of Monterrey. Many of their identities remain unknown.

In May, authorities discovered as many as 64 bodies in a ventilation shaft for a
shuttered mining operation near the tourist town of Taxco. Many of the bound and
gagged victims were alive when they were thrown down the hole.

MEXICO CITY - A survivor  of a massacre in northern Mexico told investigators
that the 72 people found dead at a ranch were undocumented migrants who were
kidnapped by a drug gang on their way to the U.S. border.

Mexican authorities discovered the bodies late Tuesday about 100 miles south of
Brownsville, Texas, near the town of San Fernando. The surrounding state of
Tamaulipas is the scene of a vicious struggle between rival drug mafias and
Mexican forces that has left hundreds dead and important trade cities besieged
by gun battles,  kidnapping and extortion.

The bodies of 58 men and 14 women were discovered after Mexican marines manning
a checkpoint were approached by a wounded man who said he had been held hostage
and shot by gang gunmen at a nearby ranch.

The survivor, who has been hospitalized and said he was originally from Ecuador,
told his story to state prosecutors, according to a report Wednesday on the Web
site of the newspaper Reforma.

The witness said about 75 migrants from Central and South America were traveling
together toward the Texas border when they were kidnapped by armed men, who
authorities suspect may work for the paramilitary drug cartel known as the
Zetas.

The survivor said that when the migrants refused to pay money, their captors
began shooting them. When Mexican forces arrived at the scene, the assailants
scattered and fled. No arrests have been announced. It was unclear whether the
dead had been shot all at once or over several days.

Illegal migrants traveling through Mexico on their way to the United States
often face a harrowing journey -  robbed, raped and sometimes murdered by
smugglers and crime gangs, who often work alongside corrupt police.

Mexico detained and deported more than 64,000 illegal migrants last year,
according to the National Migration Institute. Many more make it across the U.S.
border. The National Commission on Human Rights, a government agency, estimates
that 20,000 are kidnapped in Mexico each year.

While they are held for ransom, migrants are routinely tortured -  threatened
with execution, beaten with clubs and shocked with electricity.

As Mexico's U.S.-backed, military-led war against criminal organizations rages
on, leaving more than 28,000 dead, authorities are discovering mass graves.

In July, investigators found 51 corpses near a trash dump outside the northern
city of Monterrey. Many of their identities remain unknown.

In May, authorities discovered as many as 64 bodies in a ventilation shaft for a
shuttered mining operation near the tourist town of Taxco. Many of the bound and
gagged victims were alive when they were thrown down the hole.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright  The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 22, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Three Latino stars shine for GOP

BYLINE: Philip Rucker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 880 words


Turn on the television in any state near the border with Mexico, and before long
you'll see a Republican campaign ad that looks something like this one, which
ran here earlier this year: "I'm standing in New Mexico," the candidate says,
"and on the other side of that fence is the murder capital of the world." A
picture of armed police flashes across the screen. "When crime spills over, I
prosecute."

What makes this particular spot unusual is the name of the candidate who made
it: Susana Martinez. Like many Republicans, New Mexico's candidate for governor
is taking advantage of voters' anger over illegal immigration. She has pledged
to go after undocumented workers and make it illegal for them to obtain driver's
licenses. She is also a vocal supporter of Arizona's controversial new law
targeting illegals.

It has been a successful strategy. Martinez is running ahead of her Democratic
opponent, Diane Denish, and could become the country's first Latino woman
governor.

Martinez is one of a trio of Latino Republicans poised to win high office this
year in part by running on an anti-immigration platform. In Florida, Senate
candidate Marco Rubio is ahead of Democrat Kendrick Meek and independent Charlie
Crist. And in Nevada, gubernatorial candidate Brian Sandoval is leading Democrat
Rory Reid.

If they win, Martinez, Rubio and Sandoval would make up a high-profile
triumvirate that Republicans hope will help the party woo increasingly
influential Latino voters. The nation's fastest-growing voting bloc - nearly
half the voters in New Mexico, for instance, are of Latino origin - has largely
shunned the GOP in recent years.

Yet those Republican hopes may be difficult to realize, if only because the
GOP's anti-immigration rhetoric is a primary reason Latinos have turned away
from the party.

"It will be a big victory symbolically, especially if the Democrats don't have
any [Latino governors], and with me gone I don't think there is one," said
outgoing New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson (D), the nation's most prominent
Hispanic officeholder. "However, it will not translate into votes nationally
because of the very, very hard-line position these candidates have taken on
immigration."

Republican strategists acknowledge that the tone of the immigration debate has
hurt the party among many Hispanics. Indeed, a recent national survey of Latino
voters found that support for Republican candidates has declined steadily since
2004, when George W. Bush won 40 percent of Hispanics. In the 2008 presidential
election, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) won 31 percent of the Latino vote. And in
this year's midterms, just 22 percent of Latino registered voters say they plan
to support Republicans, according to a poll this month by the nonpartisan Pew
Hispanic Center.

For the GOP, the more discouraging finding may be that just 6 percent of those
polled said they see the Republican Party as more concerned about Latinos than
the Democratic Party.

"Republicans need to be clear that they not only want but welcome Hispanics into
the Republican Party, and having these three prominent successful Hispanic
Republicans sends that message loud and clear," said Republican pollster Whit
Ayres, who is working for Rubio's campaign.

Yet Democrats say Martinez, Rubio and Sandoval are trying to have it both ways -
trumpeting their Hispanic heritage while embracing policies that work against
fellow Latinos.

"Hispanics, like everybody else, are concerned about safety at the border,"
Denish said in an interview in Santa Fe. "Immigration and border security are
two different issues. My opponent, she's spent 10, 11 months making people feel
bad about New Mexico and about hard-working people that are here to support
their families."

Denish said she supports comprehensive immigration reform, but believes
Arizona's law "went too far."

Martinez, Rubio and Sandoval each boast biographical tales of overcoming long
odds to achieve their version of the American dream. Martinez said she grew up
poor in Texas, the youngest of three latchkey children whose parents worked
full-time jobs. Her father, a former boxer in the Marines, was a deputy sheriff,
and her mother held administrative jobs. When her dad started a private security
company, Martinez, then 17, became one of his security guards and reportedly
carried her own gun while patrolling the parking lots at bingo games.

After college and law school, Martinez moved to Las Cruces, N.M., to work in the
Dona Ana County district attorney's office. Although raised a Democrat, she
eventually switched parties to run for district attorney against her former boss
in 1996. She won handily and has cruised to reelection three times since.

This is how Martinez hopes Latino voters will see her - not as a crusader
against illegal immigration, but as an American success story.

"I know who I am, and I know that I'm different, but I don't focus on that, and
I don't think people in New Mexico necessarily focus on that either," Martinez
said in an interview at her campaign headquarters here. "I grew up in El Paso,
where the cultures and ethnic groups are so diverse, and no one ever really
notices the differences. That's how New Mexico is. And it doesn't get pointed
out to me too often - except from people from Washington."

ruckerp@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2010 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Back-and-forth on Va. day-laborer center

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 239 words


An article about a plan to create a

day-laborer center in Centreville was one of the top drivers of discussion on
washingtonpost.com Thursday, with readers taking various sides on the
immigration debate.

Here are some excerpts:

NorthernVirginia: "This is simply yet another insidious ploy to try to
legitimize illegal aliens. Those illegal aliens lied and cheated to get into
this country, and they lie, cheat, and steal while they remain in this country.
Quite obviously, their presence flouts our laws and is intolerable for the
majority of Americans."

shamken: "This is too funny. Some of the people who helped developers bring up
Centreville are now the enemy."

asmith1: "Democrats AND Republicans BOTH support discrimination against American
workers by offering illegal aliens preferential treatment through their
omission. There are political rewards for looking the other way -- and some in
both parties can be bought."

KBlit:"And you wonder why people are upset with illegal enforcement. This is a
joke! Right?"

sarc04: "Instead of keeping tabs on Juan and Maria, let's keep tabs on the Johns
and Marys that hire the illegals. They're lawbreakers too!"

kchenx: "If your concern is that some of the day laborers are gang members, my
question to you is why wouldn't you want an organized day-laborer site? The
alternative would be huddled masses in front of Seven11s and other common pickup
sites where workers swarm drivers that pull up."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Jobs center clash highlights hard choices on immigrants

BYLINE: Robert McCartney

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 822 words


The Guatemalan men in paint-spattered pants standing outside their neat, brick
rowhouses in Centreville said they'd be happy to walk a few extra blocks each
morning to use a proposed day laborers center to look for work.

It'd beat standing on the side of the road near their homes, as they do now.

"It would be much better, especially when it rains. There'd be more control [of
the hiring]," said Edwin Cabrera, 27. He typically earns $50 to $60 for a day
working as a painter's helper after contractors and homeowners drive up and
offer jobs.

But the men also made a confession. They're in the country illegally. "My papers
are in Guatemala," Cabrera said with a smile.

And that's a big problem for some of their neighbors.

Just down St. Germain Drive, near the planned site of the job center, Kevin
Vorce strongly opposed the controversial project.

"It just hides the problem" by moving illegal workers to a double-wide trailer
behind a shopping center, said Vorce, 53, who works in real estate.

Their presence anywhere "takes away from people who need work who are legally in
the country," Vorce said. "They should have to apply for citizenship just like
my great-great-great-grandparents did."

The recent eruption of controversy over illegal immigration in Centreville in
western Fairfax County highlights why the debate is so frustrating. Both sides
have good arguments, which aren't easily reconciled. It doesn't help that each
faction is quick to self-righteously dismiss the other's valid points.

The liberal activists who want to establish the day labor site hint broadly that
their opponents are intolerant bigots. But they have little to say when asked
how they justify a measure that would effectively legitimize the presence of
undocumented foreigners -- and could attract more to the community.

"I didn't invite them. I didn't bring them. They're here," said Jerry Foltz, a
member of the Centreville Immigration Forum, which would operate the jobs
center. Asked about the illegal status of many day laborers, Foltz said only,
"it's up to the individual to pay taxes" and handle residence papers.

The center's conservative opponents drip with outrage over how the presence of
illegal immigrants mocks America's laws, costs citizens jobs and drains tax
dollars. But they offer no practical answer. Angry as they are, the ones I
interviewed stopped short of supporting the arrest and deportation of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States.

"I don't know what the correct solution is," Vorce conceded. He said it wouldn't
be acceptable to "send out the National Guard and round them up, Nazi-style."

Rayman Hamid, 47, a leading opponent of the jobs center, said the solution could
be amnesty instead of deportation.

"The government needs to take a stand one way or the other," said Hamid, a
Guyanese immigrant who owns a Baskin-Robbins store near the proposed site.
"Illegals aren't going away, because contractors are going to keep hiring them
because they're cheaper."

The standoff will continue until Congress finds enough political courage to
compromise on comprehensive immigration reform. Anybody who follows the subject
already knows what the deal will look like. Conservatives have to swallow some
kind of amnesty. Liberals have to accept genuinely tough sanctions, especially
against employers who hire illegal immigrants. The nation needs a guest-worker
program that expands or restricts temporary immigration according to the
economy's needs.

In the meantime, count on regular outbreaks of bitterness and ill will like the
one in Centreville. A substantial majority of people attending a public meeting
on the subject Tuesday were outspokenly critical of the center.

My own sympathies, on balance, are with the immigrants. The vast majority come
to America to work long hours at unattractive jobs to earn a better life for
themselves and their families. Only a few come to sponge off the welfare state.

That said, the immigrants' presence in Centreville has unquestionably been a
nuisance, and their own bad behavior is partly to blame. Numerous people
complained that men awaiting jobs regularly intimidated women and girls with
leers, ogling and lecherous comments.

The problem has been particularly bad outside the Centreville Regional Library,
near a housing complex where many day laborers live.

"It was scary to come to the library. I'd tell my daughter, who's 14, 'Hey,
don't go outside,' " said Pamela Jordan, 39.

Center supporter Foltz said he couldn't defend such conduct. But he said it
would be easier to prevent such problems if the day laborers were supervised at
an established venue.

That's a good point, which underlines why it's better overall to have the center
than not. Yes, it's maddening to tolerate lawbreaking. Given that mass arrests
are even less desirable, it's better to put the day laborers in a double-wide
than have them hanging out on the street.

http://mccartneyr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       July 7, 2010 Wednesday 2:00 PM EST

Immigration showdown in Arizona

BYLINE: Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio, Sheriff, Maricopa County, Arizona,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1668 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Justice Department filed suit Tuesday against Arizona, charging
that the state's new immigration law is unconstitutional and requesting a
preliminary injunction to stop the legislation from taking effect.


The Justice Department filed suit Tuesday against Arizona, charging that the
state's new immigration law is unconstitutional and requesting a preliminary
injunction to stop the legislation from taking effect.

The lawsuit says the law illegally intrudes on federal prerogatives, invoking as
its main argument the legal doctrine of "preemption," which is based on the
Constitution's supremacy clause and says that federal law trumps state statutes.
The Justice Department argues that enforcing immigration laws is a federal
responsibility.

Joseph M. "Joe" Arpaio, sheriff of Maricopa County, Ariz., was online Wednesday,
July 7, at 2 p.m. ET to discuss the federal and local, legal and political
battle over the Arizona law.

____________________

Bowie, Md.: Hi Joe,

Is it frustrating to see that the federal government is not backing your state's
attempts to curtail illegal immigration?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: The sad part is I spent the major part of my life with
the federal government U.S. Justice Dept. Drug Enforcement Administration in
Mexico and around the world. And now because I'm dong my job as the elected
sheriff they have launched investigations against me and my deputies in the
first 60 says of the Obama administration, alleged racial profiling. Nothing's
happened so far.

Yesterday they filed a lawsuit against the state of Arizona on our new SP1070
law. It doesn't matter because I will continue to enforce federal and state
illegal immigration laws.

_______________________

Fort Myers Florida: Could the federal government stop illegal border crossings
if it wanted to, and is the federal government offering any joint solution to
Arizona's border crossing problem?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: I was the director in Mexico City with Federal Drug
Enforcement. I was also head of the FDEA in Texas and also in Arizona on three
separate assignments so I have some knowledge about the U.S.-Mexican border
which most politicians and critics don't have. Because of the 12 years
experience it's my opinion you can never stop completely drug smuggling and
illegal immigration coming across that border. However, with proper policies you
can reduce the amount of drugs and people crossing that 2,000 mile border if you
have the will and the desire coming from the president of the U.S. to do so.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: If you discover that a witness to a crime is an illegal
immigrant, would you favor deporting this person after the trial?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: There are certain aspect including the new law which
states that no action will be taken if the person is a witness to a crime or a
victim of a crime.

_______________________

Los Altos, Calif.: Why is it that both major political parties do not come
together and agree to enforce strict border control and security right now
instead of falsely claiming it is necessary to await overall immigration reform
which might take years or forever to actually happen?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: Because it's a political, economic, diplomatic law
enforcement problem and the bottom line is there's certain pressures from
certain people that want amnesty and businesses like to hire illegals because of
the cheap wages. So you have so many different elements coming against each
other, they're bucking heads, that nobody, including the president, wants to do
something.

The reason I talk like that and the reason I'm always optimistic is the fact
that under President Nixon G. Gordon Liddy and I ran a field operation called
Operation Intercept when the president said enough is enough about the drug
trafficking and for two weeks -- I won't say closed the border -- but every car
was searched coming across that border. Hardly any drugs were detected or
seized.

So when the president says this is going to happen, most federal bureaucrats and
politicians fall in line, meaning they get the job done.

_______________________

Syracuse, NY: How about the other way around: Would it be possible for the
border states to sue the Federal government for not enforcing immigration laws
and protecting their borders?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: Everybody sues everybody these days. There should be
other ways to get problems resolved. Lawsuits take a long time.

_______________________

Manassas VA: I live in an area that has a large immigrant community. It's been a
hot button for years. There's has been a large influx of gang activity and crime
in the area. But there are those who are law abiding and here legally.

How would you balance the process of who you check and still be respectful of
those who are here legally and just trying to reach the American Dream?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: We don't go after people on the street corner if they
look like they're from a foreign country. We pursue illegal immigration during
the course of our duties and if during that course it's revealed that people are
in this country illegally, we take action. As far as Maricopa County I've been
enforcing the federal and state illegal immigration laws for three years, before
it became a big, recent political subject. Consequently, many people have left
Maricopa County that are here illegally because they're afraid of being arrested
and deported.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: What is the crime rate between illegal immigrants and the
general population. One would think that an illegal immigrant would have
incentive to avoid crime.

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: All I can say is that out of the 8 -- 10,000 people in
the jails that I run including a tent city jail that I put up in 1993 around 18
percent of the people in jail are there for other crimes such as murder and just
about any crime you could think of, so we do have to admit that illegal aliens
do commit crimes in our country.

_______________________

Reston, Va.: Would you support a pathway for citizenship for immigrants to come
to work in the United States legally? Why or why not?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: I would only support a pathway if people came across our
border legally with proper identification but not those who are already here
illegally, which is called amnesty.

_______________________

Burke, Va: The new Arizona law says that police may question the immigration
status of an individual where "reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an
alien who is unlawfully present in the United States".

Could you give specific examples of what would constitute such a suspicion?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: I'm not going to get into probable cause, we'll be here
forever. Let me just say in general terms there's several criteria to show that
person may be in the country illegally.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: It's said often in the media that you wrote the Arizona law;
is that true? How do you feel when other law enforcement in your state call it
"stupid"? Many thanks.

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: I did not write the law, I enforce the law. We're the
only agency enforcing the other state illegal immigration laws. I don't make the
laws, I enforce the laws.

_______________________

Washington, D.C. (but Arizona native): How do you deal with the fact that for US
citizens, we have no requirement to carry papers? It is not a crime in this
country not to have papers if you are of legal status. Therefore what's to
prevent a legal resident who is not carrying papers from being arrested under
the new law? Is this a violation of their civil rights?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: If you are here on a visa or any other type of
immigration document you must carry those papers on your person, it's a federal
law. If you are here illegally and law enforcement can show that then you have
violated not only the federal law but some of our recently passed state laws.

_______________________

Phoenix, AZ: Do you think it would be a good idea to legalize all drugs in the
United States and have them regulated like alcohol and cigarettes? It could
potentially ruin all funding of the Mexican cartels, and they'd deport
themselves.

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: Since I spent almost 50 years in international, national
and local law enforcement I am totally opposed to legalizing drugs. We have
enough problems in this country with drinking. Also I would not want a doctor
high on cocaine operating on me.

_______________________

Albuquerque, NM: Hi Joe! I can understand the frustration in patrolling the
border and dealing with the problem of illegal immigration. As an immigrant
myself, I feel that we must put trust in your deputies to do their job
correctly. However, how can you be so sure that there won't be racial profiling
that could happen? Don't you think this law opens up this chance for that one
individual bigoted officer to act on their biases?

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: I don't think you get rid of any program when it's
private business or government just because one or more people may have not
followed policy or may have even violated the law. I would presume if a crooked
cop is selling drugs, should we stop drug enforcement or abolish the drug unit?

_______________________

Chiapas, Mexico: If the people of Arizona don't want illegal immigrants, why to
they continue to offer them work?

Are you doing anything to investigate and prosecute employers who illegally
entice, employ and exploit these workers?

If Arizona has taken on the Federal responsibility to enforce immigration laws,
why hasn't it done the same to enforce employment laws?

Thank you.

Joseph M. 'Joe' Arpaio: There's another new state illegal employer sanction law.
Once again, this office is the only one enforcing that law. We have raided 36
businesses, arrested almost 500 people and 75 percent of the people in the
workplace that we have arrested had false identification, which in itself is a
serious crime and they were all here illegally.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 21, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Corrections

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 300 words


-- A May 17 Metro article about Montgomery County Police Chief J. Thomas
Manger's criticism of a new Arizona immigration law incorrectly said that the
law requires police to check the immigration status of people they come in
contact with if officers suspect they are in the country illegally. That
description was based on an earlier version of the bill, which was amended to
raise the threshold. As the law now reads, police are to ask such questions
after they have stopped or detained someone for a possible offense unrelated to
immigration. Also, officers are not required to make the inquiries if they think
doing so would hinder an investigation.

-- A May 17 Sports article about the Washington Nationals' 2-1 loss the previous
day to the Colorado Rockies incorrectly said that by giving up a sacrifice-fly
run, Nationals relief pitcher Tyler Clippard helped deny starter Scott Olsen a
win. Olsen would not have been eligible for the win.

-- The Ezra Klein column in the May 16 Business section incorrectly indicated
that the Supreme Court was interpreting the Equal Pay Act in the Lilly Ledbetter
pay discrimination case. It was considering Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
Ledbetter filed claims under both laws, but by the time her case made it to the
Supreme Court, a lower court had thrown out the claims based on the Equal Pay
Act.

The Washington Post is committed to correcting errors that appear in the
newspaper. Those interested in contacting the paper for that purpose can: E-mail
corrections@washpost.com Call 202-334-6000, and ask to be connected to the desk
involved -- National, Foreign, Metro, Style, Sports, Business or any of the
weekly sections. The ombudsman, who acts as the readers' representative, can be
reached by calling 202-334-7582 or e-mailing ombudsman@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Clinton: Ariz. to face suit over law on immigration

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 264 words


The Obama administration has decided to sue Arizona over the state's
controversial immigration law, according to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham
Clinton. The Justice Department declined Thursday to confirm such a plan.

In a June 8 interview with an Ecuadorean television station, Clinton said the
department, under President Obama's direction, "will be bringing a lawsuit" over
the measure. A video of the interview was distributed Thursday by the American
Civil Liberties Union, which urged the administration to go to court.

Justice Department spokesman Matthew Miller said the department "continues to
review the law'' and declined to comment further.

The Arizona legislation empowers police to question anyone who authorities have
a "reasonable suspicion" is an illegal immigrant. The Justice Department has
been considering for nearly two months whether to sue the state to stop the law
from taking effect  this summer.

Federal officials have given strong signals in recent weeks that a lawsuit is
almost certain, and one official involved in reviewing the law said Thursday
that "there is no reason to think" that Clinton's assertion was wrong. The
official spoke on the condition of anonymity because no decision has been
announced.

Arizona officials have urged the administration not to file suit, and Gov. Jan
Brewer (R) said in a statement Thursday: "If our own government intends to sue
our state to prevent illegal immigration enforcement, the least it can do is
inform us before it informs the citizens of another nation."

Staff writer Anne E. Kornblut contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Justice Dept. expected to cite 'preemption' in Ariz. suit

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 335 words


The Justice Department has decided to file suit against Arizona on the grounds
that the state's new immigration law illegally intrudes on federal prerogatives,
law enforcement sources said Monday.

The lawsuit, which three sources said could be filed as early as Tuesday, will
invoke for its main argument the legal doctrine of "preemption," which is based
on the Constitution's supremacy clause and says that federal law trumps state
statutes. Justice Department officials believe that enforcing immigration laws
is a federal responsibility, the sources said.

A federal lawsuit will dramatically escalate the legal and political battle over
the Arizona law, which gives police the power to question anyone if they have a
"reasonable suspicion" that the person is an illegal immigrant. The measure has
drawn words of condemnation from President Obama and Attorney General Eric H.
Holder Jr. and opposition from civil rights groups. It also has prompted at
least five other lawsuits. Arizona officials have urged the Obama administration
not to sue.

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton first revealed last month that the
Justice Department intended to sue Arizona, and department lawyers have been
preparing their case, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the government has not announced its plans. The filing is expected to
include declarations from other U.S. agencies saying that the Arizona law would
place a undue burden on their ability to enforce immigration laws nationwide,
because Arizona police are expected to refer so many illegal immigrants to
federal authorities.

The preemption doctrine has been established in Supreme Court decisions, and
some legal experts have said such a federal argument likely would persuade a
judge to declare the law unconstitutional.

But lawyers who helped draft the Arizona legislation have expressed doubt that a
preemption argument would prevail. The law, signed by Gov. Jan Brewer (R) in
April, is scheduled to take effect later this month.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

White House sees immigration issue as long-term plus for Democrats

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1143 words


President Obama and his political aides privately acknowledge that the
government's decision to sue Arizona over its new immigration law is helping to
fuel an anti-immigration fervor that could benefit some Republicans in elections
this fall.

But White House officials have concluded that, over the long term, the
Republicans' get-tough message is a major political miscalculation. They predict
it will ultimately alienate millions of Latinos, the fastest-growing minority
group in the nation.

West Wing strategists argue that the president's call for legislation that
acknowledges the role of immigrants and goes beyond punishing undocumented
workers will help cement a permanent political relationship between Democrats
and Hispanics -- much as civil rights and voting rights legislation did for the
party and African Americans in the 1960s.

As a result, although the president is unlikely to press for comprehensive
immigration reform this year, he has urged his allies to keep up the pressure on
Republican lawmakers.

"Look: The Republicans, if you do the math, cannot be successful as a national
party if they continue to alienate Latinos," said one Democratic strategist
familiar with White House thinking on the issue.

Another top Democrat who has advised the administration on immigration added:
"If the Republicans continue on the same course they are on, the politics of
immigration are potentially devastating to their party."

Both spoke on the condition of anonymity to be candid about White House
strategy.

Last month, Obama invited a small group of influential Latino activists to the
White House and reassured them that he is committed to reform. But to succeed,
he said, they had to stop their public complaining about how slowly he was
moving and instead direct their fire at Republicans.

The activists came away from their presidential audience still convinced that he
could be doing more to push the issue. But their discussion with Obama -- and a
lengthier one with adviser Valerie Jarrett after he left the room -- made one
thing clear to them: The White House plans to use the immigration debate to
punish the GOP and aggressively seek the Latino vote in 2012.

"The president fundamentally understands that this is about the longer term,"
said Janet Murguia, president and chief executive of the National Council of La
Raza, who attended the White House meeting. "This issue goes deeper than any
list of needs. Your answer on this question will reveal to us whether you do or
don't understand our community."

Advisers to the president say his long-standing position on immigration is not
motivated by presidential politics. But in a few years, they predict, the Latino
population will surge in "red" states, where residents have traditionally voted
for Republicans in presidential contests. States such as Texas, which has been a
GOP stronghold for a generation, could become permanently "purple" tossups if
Republicans do not repair their image.

"The one thing that has the potential to grab a large part of that constituency
is to actually show them respect for being here, being here legally, being part
of the community," said a senior Democratic Party official. "The fight over
immigration is a proxy for tolerance. It's a proxy for diversity."

Lionel Sosa, who has advised Republican candidates including George W. Bush and
Sen. John McCain (Ariz.) on Latino issues, said the GOP needs to be careful
about how its policies are being received in the Hispanic community.

"We must care about the people that we lured here to do the jobs we don't train
our children to do," Sosa said. "If we forget those people, we are going to do
ourselves a great disservice. . . . That comes off as insensitive, uncaring to
the Latino community."

Ruy Teixeira, who studies Hispanic demographics for the liberal Center for
American Progress, said the growth in the number of Hispanics in states
including Arizona, Colorado, Nevada and Texas will give Democrats a significant
edge in 2012 unless Republicans find a way to change the way they are perceived.

"It's like having a thumb on the scales that's getting heavier as the time goes
by," Teixeira said.

Yet even some longtime Obama allies caution that the president shouldn't be too
quick to count those votes. The Hispanic community is varied and complex, and
previous efforts by both parties to win its allegiance didn't meet much success.

For their predictions to come true, they say, Democrats must deliver not only on
Obama's promise of immigration reform but also on improving the economic
conditions of Latinos. Unemployment among Hispanics is at 12.4 percent, well
above the 9.5 percent rate for the rest of the country.

"This demographic group, like others, is expecting results," said Steve
Hildebrand,  Obama's deputy campaign manager in 2008. "If they haven't seen
results, it's not going to be that easy."

Obama won the Hispanic vote by a 36-point margin. Hildebrand predicted that the
president will have a difficult time duplicating that number in 2012 unless he
has shown them results.

"I just don't think it's going to be that easy," he said. "We can't assume that
immigration is the number one issue, or the only issue. If anything, I think we
need to spend even more time trying to create jobs and deliver."

GOP pollster Neil Newhouse conceded that Republicans have had "a significant
challenge with Hispanic voters" in recent years. But he said it's not clear that
those voters' long-term political allegiance will be determined by a candidate's
position  on immigration.

"I'd rather win them over on economic issues and taxing-and-spending issues than
on the issue of illegal immigration," Newhouse said. "Democrats are rolling the
dice that this is going to help them more in '12 than it's going to hurt them in
'10. That calculation is very risky."

In May, the Service Employees International Union gave a private polling
presentation to strategists at the Democratic National Committee. It indicated
how difficult it may be for either party to solidify Latino support.

The group's survey of Hispanic voters in Arizona shortly after the state's
governor signed the controversial bill into law concluded that their anger was
largely directed at Republicans.

But the poll also showed that even in Arizona, where the issue is the hottest,
Latinos were not automatically pledging their votes for Democrats.

One of the presentation's concluding slides read: "GOP costs more severe, but
enthusiasm for Democrats is severely constrained by perceived inaction. There is
not a knee-jerk swell of support for Democrats, Latinos are proceeding very
cautiously with respect to Democratic support."

Said Hildebrand: "It's a situation where Democrats need to make sure they are
delivering for Hispanic voters. If they are not standing up and fighting for
them every step of the way, we don't deserve to have a lock."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; John Moore/getty Images; Opponents of Arizona's new immigration
law protested in April outside the state Capitol in Phoenix.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Law's foes applaud ruling, but both sides remain in battle mode

BYLINE: Stephanie McCrummen

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 609 words


In Arizona on Wednesday, police chiefs shifted plans, activists recalibrated and
public tensions were generally elevated, rather than calmed, after a federal
judge blocked key parts of the state's controversial immigration law from taking
effect.

"We welcome it, but it's not a full victory," Pablo Alvarado, executive director
of the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, said from Phoenix of theruling.
"The conditions that gave birth to [the law] are still on the table. This ruling
does not address the hatred. Tensions will continue to rise, and some folks will
be more angry now."

U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton's ruling blocked the provision that had
prompted the greatest outcry -- on that would require officers to check the
immigration status of anyone they lawfully stop or arrest if the officer
develops "reasonable suspicion" that the person is an illegal immigrant. Many,
especially Hispanics, interpreted that as authorizing the harassment of anyone
with brown skin.

Other parts of the law will take effect as scheduled Thursday. Alvarado said his
group and others would go forward with modified plans to protest them,
especially a section that bars people from soliciting work or hiring if it
impedes traffic, a provision he said targets day laborers.

Likewise, groups that had backed the law said they would go ahead with rallies
aimed at supporting their champion, Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. He has
made a name for himself over the years by conducting -- and marketing --
immigration raids of the sort that some had hoped would become the norm in
Arizona.

Less than an hour after Bolton issued her ruling, his sympathizers provided a
glimpse of how they would cast the ruling.

"The president of the United States and this judge just took the side of illegal
immigrants against the American citizenry," said William Gheen, president of the
Americans for Legal Immigration political action committee. "America is going to
cry out in anger. Our mission is to channel that anger into political activities
designed to rebuke the politicians and business leaders and special interest
groups behind this invasion."

Perhaps the only full sigh of relief was breathed by police chiefs around the
state, many of whom do not share Arpaio's zealousness. Almost from the start,
they had sought to temper the heated rhetoric with some broader realities:
Illegal immigration in Arizona is down, as is crime, which is no more associated
with illegal immigrants than any other subset of the population. Many never
expected the law to result in mass arrests or deportations, as activists on both
sides had predicted, but mostly to instill fear.

The chiefs also had questions about how to implement the law. Among them:
whether its requirements would interfere with regular police duties, how or
whether it would apply to minors, where and how long people would be held while
their status was checked, and how much the new mandate would cost, especially at
a time when municipal budgets are strapped. Legal advisers provided an array of
answers to those questions.

Tucson Police Chief Roberto VillaseÃ±or, who filed a declaration in support of a
federal challenge of the law, said he was pleased that Bolton recognized the
legislation's "problematic" parts.

Now, he said, he is mostly worried about the reactions to the ruling, and what
some have described as an air of vigilantism growing stronger in Arizona, a
state that is worse off economically than almost any in the country, where guns
are so common that some people wear them to the grocery store.

"When people feel so strongly on both sides," he said, "there is always
potential for problems."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A U.S. policy failure in Virginia

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 283 words


As the only organization providing free legal assistance to detained immigrants
in Virginia, we feel that the July 18 Metro article on the new immigration
detention center in Farmville, Va., overlooked several important facts.

First, the Farmville facility represents the Obama administration's  effort to
create a "civil detention" system in which low-level immigration violators are
housed in a less restrictive environment. While we applaud the administration's
efforts to create a more humane detention system, we are concerned that the
increase in minimum-security detention is inconsistent with Immigration and
Customs Enforcement's stated policy objective of prioritizing the detention and
removal of dangerous criminal noncitizens.

Further, immigration judges are already struggling to keep up with their
caseloads; expanding the Department of Homeland Security's capacity to detain
individuals without providing corresponding resources to the courts will worsen
this problem.

Less than 30 percent of people deported last year had criminal records. As
Immigration and Customs Enforcement continues to expand its enforcement
capacity, arrests of noncriminal immigrants continue to outpace any other
enforcement effort. The Farmville facility represents an expansion of
enforcement against hardworking families, not dangerous criminals. We need
smart, comprehensive immigration reform that serves our nation's economic and
humanitarian interests -- not a blunt expansion of a failed policy that tears
families apart and harms our economy.

Kathryn M. Doan and Liz McGrail, Washington

The writers are, respectively, executive director and legal director of the
Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 611 words

TEXAS

Fort Hood suspect's hearing postponed

The psychiatrist  accused of gunning down 13 people at Fort Hood made his first
courtroom appearance Tuesday in a military-court hearing.

Maj. Nidal Hasan, who was paralyzed after being shot by two Fort Hood police
officers, spoke at the hearing only when answering questions about the
proceedings, responding with a soft "Yes, sir." His attorneys sought a delay
because they needed more time to review reams of documents they recently
received and because they still lacked other key documents, including the FBI
ballistics report and a government review on the Nov. 5 shootings.

His Article 32 hearing, similar to a civilian grand jury proceeding in which a
judge hears witness testimony to determine whether  a case should go to trial,
is now set for Oct. 4.

Hasan is charged with 13 counts of premeditated murder and 32 counts of
attempted premeditated murder in the worst shooting on a U.S. military post.

-- Associated Press

ARIZONA

Poll finds support for immigration law

Almost half of Americans surveyed in a new poll say  they want their states to
pass an immigration law similar to Arizona's.

Americans also overwhelmingly oppose a boycott of Arizona to protest the law,
according to the Quinnipiac University poll, which was released Tuesday. The
measure broadly increases police power to demand documents proving legal
residency.

"The Arizona immigration law has emerged as a major divide in the country, but
the numbers are on the side of those supporting it," said Peter A. Brown,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. "The strong
plurality who says they would like a similar law in their own state probably
portends the law will be an issue in many, many campaigns this November across
the country. Depending on how those elections and court challenges come out,
copycat Arizona laws could be a hot issue in state capitals after November."

The Obama administration is considering bringing a legal challenge of the
measure, while many municipalities are considering a boycott of Arizona.

According to the poll, surveyed voters said, by 48 percent to 35 percent, that
they wanted their states to pass a law similar to Arizona's. Overall, voters
approved of the law by 51  percent to 31 percent, and, by 45 percent to 36
percent,  said it would reduce illegal immigration.

The survey of 1,914 registered voters was carried out from May 19 to 24. It has
a margin of error of plus or minus 2.2 percentage points.

-- Los Angeles Times

HEALTH

U.S. cigarette brands among the most toxic

Cigarette-smoking Americans receive higher doses of the most potent carcinogens
than do smokers in many foreign countries because of variations in the way
tobacco is processed for cigarettes, researchers from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention reported Monday.

American cigarettes are typically made from "American blend" tobacco, a specific
blend that, because of growing and curing practices, contains higher levels of
cancer-causing tobacco-specific nitrosamines. The most popular Canadian,
Australian and British brands, in contrast, are made from "bright" tobacco,
which is lighter in color and cured differently.

The study was designed primarily to correlate how well levels of the chemicals
in cigarettes correlate with levels of their metabolites in smokers' urine. The
data about exposure to the chemicals in different countries were an added
finding.

The CDC team enlisted 126 regular smokers in Australia, Canada, Britain and, in
the United States, in New York and Minnesota. All smoked one brand routinely,
typically the most popular of the brands in their country.

-- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Josh Anderson/associated Press; Nashville A worker at
the Gaylord Opryland Hotel, above, uses a pressure washer to clean the floor of
a man-made river that normally carries boats through the hotel's Delta Atrium.
The hotel was severely damaged during the recent flooding in the Tennessee city
known as the capital of country music. At left, plastic sheeting drapes doorways
as workers continue the job of restoring the hotel's Cascades Lobby to its
former opulence.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                         May 3, 2010 Monday 1:34 PM EST

D.C. Council holds off on Arizona boycott -- for now...

BYLINE: Tim Craig

LENGTH: 350 words



HIGHLIGHT: The D.C. Council is holding off on taking a public stand on Arizona's
controversial new immigration law that makes it easier for police to stop those
believed to be in the country illegally.


The D.C. Council is holding off on taking a public stand on Arizona's
controversial new immigration law that makes it easier for police to stop those
believed to be in the country illegally.

Last week, amid the national debate over the law, local Hispanic activists
requested that the council take up a resolution this week calling for a citywide
boycott of Arizona and Arizona-based businesses. They convinced council member
Michael A. Brown (I-At Large) to sponsor the resolution, which was partly
modeled after a similar one pending before the San Francisco County Board of
Supervisors.

But Council Chairman Vincent C. Gray (D) said today that the resolution will not
placed on the agenda for Tuesday's council meeting, although he added that it
could still be brought up at a later date.

"I think there will be continuing discussions. I'd rather wait and see what we
propose to do," Gray said. "I think there are lots of people who find what
happened in Arizona reprehensible. The question is, what is the appropriate
action for the D.C. Council to take?"

On Friday, the president of the American Hotel and Lodging Association sent Gray
a letter decrying efforts on the council to launch a citywide boycott of
Arizona, noting that the state's hospitality industry employs 52,000 people.

"Do the council members know - or care - that they are hurting lower-income
workers in Arizona when it pushes something like a 'boycott' proposal through
its chambers?" wrote Joseph A. McInerney, president of the AHLA. "The Washington
D.C. area is fortunate that we have the federal government to help supply local
employment and economic opportunity. ... Arizona is not so fortunate."

McInerney then pointedly asked Gray how he and other liberal council members
would feel "if the situation were reversed."

"What if Arizona citizens did not travel to Washington D.C., or host meetings in
the city, because the members of the Arizona legislature did not like the city's
5 cent bag recycling tax, or allowing gay marriage?" McInerney asked. "Do we
really want to set that type of precedent in the nation's capital city?"

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 30, 2010 Friday 3:55 PM EST

BYLINE:

LENGTH: 3114 words



HIGHLIGHT: Top Stories: Democrats release immigration proposal: "Their new
proposal provides for a path to citizenship for some of the estimated 11 million
people in the U.S. illegally, and it creates a guest-worker program," reports
Laura Meckler. "But the measure also calls for more federal enforcement agents,
better equipment and upgraded technology aimed at stopping people from illegally
crossing the border." Full proposal here (pdf). But is it worth anything without
Lindsey Graham? In an interview with me yesterday, Lindsey Graham, the only
Senate Republican committed to immigration reform, ruled out action this year.
"I'm playing pretty delicate politics here," he said. "I'm trying to let the
business community and the Hispanic community know that I'm in. I ain't going
away. But while we're trying to do this very hard thing that's energy and
climate, I can't go down that road. I can't be pressured down that road. If you
go, I can't go with you. Some supporters of immigration reform think I've
abandoned them. But they're not listening. This is just too far for me and for
the issue this year."


Top Stories: Democrats release immigration proposal: "Their new proposal
provides for a path to citizenship for some of the estimated 11 million people
in the U.S. illegally, and it creates a guest-worker program," reports Laura
Meckler. "But the measure also calls for more federal enforcement agents, better
equipment and upgraded technology aimed at stopping people from illegally
crossing the border." Full proposal here (pdf). But is it worth anything without
Lindsey Graham? In an interview with me yesterday, Lindsey Graham, the only
Senate Republican committed to immigration reform, ruled out action this year.
"I'm playing pretty delicate politics here," he said. "I'm trying to let the
business community and the Hispanic community know that I'm in. I ain't going
away. But while we're trying to do this very hard thing that's energy and
climate, I can't go down that road. I can't be pressured down that road. If you
go, I can't go with you. Some supporters of immigration reform think I've
abandoned them. But they're not listening. This is just too far for me and for
the issue this year."

inReg amendments taking shape: "Sens. Ted Kaufman (D-Del.) and Sherrod Brown
(D-Ohio) are pushing legislation to break up big banks," reports Brady Dennis.
"Sens. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and Carl M. Levin (D-Mich.) introduced an amendment
that, among other things, would ban banks from making speculative investments
using their own capital -- an activity known as proprietary trading -- and from
owning a hedge fund or private-equity fund. Sens. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) and
John McCain (R-Ariz.) are pushing to re-introduce the Glass-Steagall provision,
repealed in 1999, that separates commercial from investment banking." Goldman
facing criminal charges? "The Securities and Exchange Commission has referred
its investigation of Goldman Sachs to the Justice Department for possible
criminal prosecution, less than two weeks after filing a civil securities fraud
case against the firm, according to a source familiar with the matter," reports
Zachary Goldfarb. "It is rare for the government to indict a company, and even
the threat of criminal prosecution can doom a business. A criminal investigation
destroyed the Wall Street firm Drexel Burnham Lambert in the 1980s even though
the firm settled with authorities. " Methodologically-questionable internet-quiz
interlude: How open-minded is your media diet? FinReg. Blanche Lincoln's
proposal to spin out derivatives desks becoming a flashpoint: "'Rampant
pandering populism' was [Judd Gregg's] favorite catchphrase; that and Argentina
under Juan Peron in the 1950s," reports David Rogers. "The Treasury Â¿ albeit
considerably calmer Â¿ shares some of his concerns. An unusually aggressive memo
from the Federal Reserve staff recommends outright that the provision be
deleted. But at the insistence of Senate Agriculture Committee Chairwoman
Blanche Lincoln, it remains." Both parties hates Wall Street; love Wall Street
money: While Democrats push Wall Street regulations on the Senate floor, Banking
Committee Chairman Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.)
will head to Manhattan Monday for a fundraiser with deep-pocketed donors who
have ties to the financial industry," reports Manu Raju. "This type of event is
not unusual Â¿ both parties raise tons of money from Wall Street at exclusive
Manhattan fundraising events. But the timing on this particular party may raise
eyebrows because Democrats have been bashing Wall Street throughout the
financial reform debate." Sen. Sherrod Brown makes the case for breaking up big
banks: "Fifteen years ago, the assets of the six largest U.S. banks made up 17
percent of our gross domestic product," he writes. "Today, the top six banks
make up 63 percent of GDP. No wonder our economy's fate is tied to their
stability. As former FDIC chairman William M. Isaac has said, these banks are
"too big to manage, and too big to regulate." With mega-banks, a single
insolvency can send our economy into a tailspin. We shouldn't wait for trouble;
we should avoid it. A proposal to fix the ratings agencies: "David Raboy's
ingenious plan calls for the creation of an independent clearinghouse -- most
likely within the Securities and Exchange Commission -- to receive rating
applications from securities issuers and then farm out assignments in a random
or unpredictable way," writes James Lardner. The funding, which could come from
a financial-transaction fee, would need to cover the operations of the
clearinghouse as well as the ratings process itself." "The performance of the
rating agencies would periodically be compared on the basis of simple,
transparent criteria, such as the number of times that investment-grade bonds
defaulted or lost significant value. The most accurate rating agencies could be
rewarded with additional assignments. Those with the poorest records could, in
extreme cases, be suspended or removed from the pool." Is the Dodd bill too kind
to creditors? "The shareholders of a failed financial firm would be wiped out,
but creditorsÂ¿the people who lent it the money that got it in trouble in the
first placeÂ¿will be bailed out," writes Phillip Swagel. "And this has real
consequences, because if market participants know they can be rescued for
imprudent behavior, they will likely behave more imprudently." Do we need Fed
reform? "The problems start with the basics of the Fed's outmoded and
undemocratic structure," writes Tim Fernholz. "Just consider the geographic
spectrum of the Fed's regional branches: five banks east of the Appalachian
Mountains -- including one in Richmond, Virginia, barely 100 miles from
Washington -- and only one bank west of the Rockies. Each of those banks is run
by a president and board of directors selected largely by the private banks they
are meant to regulate. At its most absurd, this involved a Goldman Sachs banker
being tapped to represent the public interest at the New York Federal Reserve."
Maybe we don't need new regulations after all? "Think of it this way," writes
Jonah Goldberg. "We are just as vulnerable as ever to the threat of Coca-Cola
releasing another New Coke. No laws have been passed to prevent it. No new
oversight authority has been created to warn of its looming threat. And yet, the
odds of Coca-Cola rolling out another debacle like New Coke are severely
limited. Why? Because, to paraphrase Roy Scheider in Jaws II, as God is their
witness the executives at Coca-Cola don't want to go through that Hell again."
No, that's crazy. "If there's a profession on the entire planet that has
aggressively declined to learn any lessons from its periodic collapse over the
past several millennia, it's high finance," writes Kevin Drum. "In This Time
It's Different, it takes the authors three columns of text spread over four
pages just to list the banking crises since 1800. They tally up 51 of them since
1980 alone. God knows I'm sympathetic to arguments about regulatory capture and
government collusion in blowing up financial bubbles, but even Alan Greenspan
has admitted that financial markets can't be trusted to self-regulate. Alan
Effin Greenspan." Video interlude: This dude does not like quack mysticism.
Immigration. World reacts to Arizona bill: "In Mexico City, Mayor Marcelo Ebrard
announced he would try to join lawsuits seeking to overturn the law, with a
statement from his office calling the measure 'a planned Apartheid against
Mexicans,'" report Jonathan Cooper and Paul Davenport. "Ebrard did not explain
what legal standing the Mexican capital would have before U.S. courts, but said
the issue could be taken to international human rights forums. "Meanwhile,
officials in El Salvador, which has about 2.8 million citizens living in the
United States, urged Salvadorans to avoid traveling to Arizona, according to the
Foreign Ministry. In Nicaragua, officials called on the Organization of American
States and the United Nations 'to take the necessary measures to safeguard the
rights of the Hispanic population.'" The governors of Texas and Colorado also
came out against the bill. Election years are not good years for immigration
reform: "Here's the unfortunate irony," writes Mark McKinnon. "The Arizona
situation is likely to compel the Obama administration to push immigration
reform up on its agenda. But the worst possible time to discuss or pass
meaningful, reasonable, responsible immigration reform is during an election
year. The debate and outcome will be dominated by the extreme fringes. The
administration would be better off having the Justice Department and courts deal
with constitutional issues of the law for now and come back and craft
comprehensive legislation after the elections." Arizona targeting teachers with
accents: "The Arizona Department of Education recently began telling school
districts that teachers whose spoken English it deems to be heavily accented or
ungrammatical must be removed from classes for students still learning English,"
reports Miriam Jordan. Northern California wants to boycott Arizona: In San
Francisco, Mayor Gavin Newsom issued an executive order that stops city
officials from traveling to Arizona and is looking into a broader ban on city
business with Arizona businesses," reports Mary Lu Carnavale. "City Attorney
Dennis Herrera and Supervisor David Campos have been pushing for a boycott since
Friday when Arizona enacted a tough immigration law that critics say will
encourage racial profiling." "But as the San Francisco Chronicle points out, a
boycott could be complicated. For starters, the city has contracted with an
Arizona company to process payments to some 2,500 people in a jobs program that
channels federal stimulus funds to companies that hire the unemployed." Is
enforcement working? "The main reason for the decline in unauthorized
immigration is probably not the temporary phenomenon of the recession," writes
Edward Schumacher-Matos. "If this were so, demand for work or residence visas
would be down, and it is not. And Mexico, the source of nearly six out of every
10 undocumented immigrants, is suffering an even worse recession than the United
States. No, a major -- if not the main -- reason for the drop is that
enforcement is working, something that many pro-immigration activists hate to
admit and that restrictionists refuse to recognize." Enforcement doesn't need to
come first. "Requiring successful enforcement of the current immigration laws
before they can be changed is a non sequitur," writes Cato's Daniel Griswold.
"It's like saying, in 1932, that we can't repeal the nationwide prohibition on
alcohol consumption until we've drastically reduced the number of moonshine
stills and bootleggers. But Prohibition itself created the conditions for the
rise of those underground enterprises, and the repeal of Prohibition was
necessary before the government could "get control" of its unintended
consequences." Giant animal interlude: Good lord, that's a huge rabbit. Energy.
Bill Nelson using Gulf of Mexico oil spill to challenge WH's offshore-drilling
proposal: "Obama gave no immediate sign of agreeing to a request in a letter
from Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) to halt all oil exploration off the U.S. coasts,"
report Josh Gerstein and Jeanne Cummings. "Nelson also urged Obama to impose an
immediate halt to any other test wells and exploratory activity in coastal
waters until the federal investigation into the cause of the April 20 Deepwater
Horizon explosion is complete. He said he was introducing legislation to
temporarily prohibit the Interior Department from exercising its authority to
expand drilling and suggested a congressional inquiry could be launched." Is
energy innovation the transformative project of the early-21st century? "Energy
innovation is the railroad legislation of today," writes David Brooks. "This
country is studded with venture capitalists, scientists, corporate executives
and environmental activists atremble over the great opportunities they see
ahead. The energy revolution is a material project that arouses moral fervor Â¿
exactly the sort of enterprise at which Americans excel." Ever wondered why all
windmills look the same? Brian Palmer is a man with answers. Economy. Obama
trying -- failing? -- to retain his economic advisers: "President Barack Obama,
trying to head off a staff exodus after the November elections, has been
pressing members of his economic team to stay with his administration until the
economy is on a stronger footing, reports Jonathan Weisman. "Despite Mr. Obama's
efforts, some members of the team, such as White House Budget Director Peter
Orszag and Council of Economic Advisers Chairwoman Christina Romer, are still
eying the exits." Did you know Puerto Rico was having a banking crisis? "At
least three of Puerto Rico's banks Â¿ Eurobank, R-G Premier Bank and Westernbank
Â¿ are operating under cease-and-desist orders from regulators, restricting
their ability to make new loans," reports Eric Dash. "They had been given until
March 31 to raise new capital or combine with healthier banks. Now that the
deadline has come and gone, regulators have been working on a confidential plan
to auction off the lenders, according to several people involved in the
situation. It is known as Project Themis, after the Greek goddess of divine law
and order." Sidenote: If I were structuring a bank rescue right now, I would not
name it after anything Greek. Jobless claims down: "The number of U.S. workers
filing new claims for jobless benefits continued to fall last week, the latest
sign that the labor market is thawing," report Sarah Lynch and Jeff Bater.
Initial claims for unemployment benefits declined by 11,000 to 448,000 in the
week ended April 24, the Labor Department said in its weekly report Thursday."
Recipe interlude: Farmer's cheese gnocchi. Health-care reform. Anthem rate hikes
rejected: "WellPoint Inc. said it would revise its request for steep rate hikes
in California's individual market, after a state regulator said it found flaws
in the company's application," reports Anna Wilde Matthews. "The proposed
premium increases by the company's Anthem Blue Cross unit would have affected
more than 700,000 consumers, who would have seen their rates go up by as much as
39%. The hikes became a big political issue at the state and federal levels,
leading to high-profile hearings in Washington, D.C., and helping to generate
momentum for the recently passed health overhaul." States ambivalent over
setting up high-risk pools: Friday is the deadline for states to tell the Obama
administration whether they want to run the high-risk insurance pool for
uninsured people with pre-existing conditions, or whether they will leave the
task to Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services," reports
Robert Pear. "Democratic officials in Montana, Pennsylvania, Washington and
Wisconsin, among other states, said they intended to operate the program under
contract with the federal government. They were joined by Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican, who gave a rousing endorsement of
President Obama's health plan at a news conference." But Republican officials in
Georgia, Indiana, Nebraska and Nevada turned down the opportunity to run the
high-risk pool, as did at least one Democratic governor, Dave Freudenthal of
Wyoming. Mr. Freudenthal said he worried that his state's federal allotment of
$8 million "may prove insufficient" to subsidize coverage for the next three and
a half years. The temporary federal program runs from July to Jan. 1, 2014, when
insurers will be required to accept all applicants." Can we tackle payment
reform now? "Last November, researchers from Children's Hospital Boston reported
interim results from a community-based asthma program that used case managers,
home health aides, and outreach to coordinate the proper steps for children with
severe asthma," writes Darshak Sanghavi. "Within six months, emergency-room
visits dropped by 60 percent. Hospitalizations fell by 80 percent and stayed
down for a year. And yet, according to a legislative liaison from the hospital,
'in the current traditional health care system, these kinds of workers'Â¿such as
home-visiting nurses and case managersÂ¿'are not providers that have been able
to bill or get any payment for their services.'" Eugene Robinson isn't impressed
by the lazy nostalgia in the 'Chicken Care' fantasy: "[Sue Lowden's] words
conjured the image of a kindly old man named Doc who made the rounds of frontier
homesteads," writes Robinson, "presumably with his horse and buggy, and fixed
everybody up, good as new -- 'Just pay me when you can, Sue.' But the truth is
that in those days, doctors routinely watched people die from diseases that are
easily cured today; simple infections and even childbirth carried grave risks.
The care that Doc could give wasn't worth much more than a chicken." Labor. Why
did the SEIU elect Mary Kay Henry as Andy Stern's successor? Tthere is
widespread concern within the union that Stern had gratuitously estranged allies
(chiefly, other unions), and that SEIU's legendary organizing gains have ground
to a halt," reports Harold Meyerson. "The union, many believe, needs new
strategic directions. Some of Henry's backers, including her fellow executive
vice-presidents Tom Woodruff and Dave Regan, favor a return to traditional
organizing. Others, including other fellow executive vice-presidents Gerald
Hudson and Eliseo Medina, favor the union immersing itself more deeply in a
range of social causes (Medina has been a leading champion of immigrants' rights
for years)." Obama administration trying to crack down on labor-law violations:
"In a move that will affect most American corporations, the Labor Department
plans to require companies to prepare and adopt compliance plans aimed at
ensuring they do not violate wage, job safety and equal employment laws,"
reports Steve Greenhouse. "The effort, aimed in part at reducing the incidence
of employers not paying overtime and improperly classifying workers as
independent contractors, will require them to document many of their decisions
and share that information with their workers and the government." "At a recent
Georgetown University forum on the labor movement (in which I participated),
Hudson argued that expecting legislation such as the Employee Free Choice Act to
pass on the basis of an inside-the-Beltway campaign was misguided, and that the
union needed to help create a larger social movement embracing a number of
progressive causes before it would see its own priorities enacted. Henry, say
several SEIU leaders, shares this perspective."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration policy critical for tech firms;
Coalition supports provision to ease hiring of skilled foreigners

BYLINE: Abby Sewell

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 535 words


The technology sector, a little-publicized but key player in the coalition that
is pushing for an overhaul of immigration laws, is giving mixed reviews to the
proposal that Senate Democrats recently unveiled.

Although public dialogue on immigration has focused on a path to legalization
for the millions of illegal immigrants living in the United States, technology
companies have lobbied for years on a different but related issue: streamlining
and easing the  employment of skilled legal immigrant workers.

The number of H-1B visas issued each year is capped at 65,000, with another
20,000 reserved for foreign-born students who graduate from U.S. schools with
advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and math.

Peter Muller is the director of government relations for Intel, one of the
largest sponsors of H-1B temporary visas for skilled workers. The company was
approved for 723 new H-1B visas in 2009. Muller said Intel had been hindered in
hiring and keeping the most qualified people by the annual caps on H-1B visas
and the sometimes decade-long delay in processing applications for green card.

"To not be able to hire the people who really drive innovation in our company is
a frustration," he said.

In past years, the allotment of H-1B visas often was gone within days after the
application period opened in April. Last year, it took until December to hit the
cap.

Even with a slower economy reducing demand for workers, however, tech companies
say they want the system overhauled.

"Companies are still hiring, so fixing the problems and fixing the system is
important," said Jessica Herrera-Flanigan, the co-executive director of Compete
America, a coalition of companies that is lobbying for more high-skilled
immigration. "It's an issue today for some companies, and it's going to continue
to be an issue that needs to be addressed."

For H-1B workers who want to stay in the country permanently, the wait for a
green card can take years. Ashish Sharma, an Indian citizen who is working for a
technology company in California, has waited for a green card for seven years.
At one point, Sharma said, he considered leaving the United States because of
the uncertainty of his status.

"The long wait does bother people," he said. "I did look at what Canada was
offering, where they give you a green card within three months."

Sharma  decided to stay for the sake of his two children, who were raised in the
United States, but some employers as well as workers have chosen to go abroad.
Microsoft, a top sponsor of H-1B visas with 1,318 petitions approved in 2009,
opened a development center in Vancouver in 2007, in part to take advantage of
Canada's  immigration laws.

Compete America praised some aspects of the Democratic immigration framework
that Sens. Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Robert
Menendez (D-N.J.) put forward. The coalition favors a provision that would offer
green cards to foreign students who graduate from U.S. universities with
advanced degrees in specialized fields, but it is pushing back against
provisions that would limit the hiring of H-1B workers and increase government
scrutiny of companies that sponsor the temporary visas.

-- Medill News Service

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 24, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Focus is on legal foreign workers;
Senate Democrats' new approach would give power to commission

BYLINE: Laura Litvan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 874 words


Democrats crafting an overhaul of U.S. immigration laws are bringing a new
approach to a long-stalled debate: giving a federal commission some power over
the future flow of legal foreign workers.

Senate Democratic leaders are drafting a measure to authorize a commission to
recommend levels of employment-based visas and green cards that let immigrants
work legally in the United States. The plan would require Congress, in certain
cases, to vote when immigrant labor is deemed out of line with demand. Although
the commission would have limited influence over the skilled-immigrant market
for technology and other industries, it would have a major role in regulating
low-skilled foreign labor.

The idea is another example of lawmakers showing a willingness to relinquish
decision-making to commissions on issues that include reducing the federal debt,
Iraq war policy and curbing Medicare costs.

"It's the ultimate expression for the need for political cover," said Ross
Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers University.

It's also an idea that allows the Democrats, who control Congress, to show
support for labor unions championing the proposal. Business groups, however, are
concerned the commission would make it more cumbersome to use foreign labor.

"Traditionally, our levels have been set by law, and that's worked for us," said
Ralph Hellman, top lobbyist at the Information Technology Industry Council,
which includes Intel and Hewlett-Packard as members. "The commission has a lot
of peril in it."

Labor unions say the approach can be flexible enough to satisfy business. Their
key goal is a mechanism that helps ensure that use of immigrant labor doesn't
rise to levels that hurt U.S. workers, said Ana AvendaÃ±o, an AFL-CIO official
who focuses on immigration policy. "We don't want a detrimental effect on our
economy or wages," she said.

Calls for action on immigration-overhaul legislation from Hispanic groups,
unions and some lawmakers have increased since passage last month of a measure
in Arizona that would require local police to determine the immigration status
of anyone suspected of lacking proper documentation. Still, Congress probably
won't take up immigration legislation and the commission idea until 2011, after
November's elections.

The overhaul measure would secure the U.S.-Mexico border, create a
temporary-worker program and forge a path to citizenship for the estimated 11
million people in the country illegally.

The commission idea came from Ray Marshall, Labor Secretary under President
Jimmy Carter. The United States needs a nonpartisan panel that would use
"rigorous" data analysis in its decisions, Marshall said in an interview.

The commission plan emerged in December, when Rep. Solomon P. Ortiz (D-Tex.)
included it in an immigration bill backed by the House's Hispanic and
Progressive caucuses. That bill, stalled in the House, would establish a
seven-member commission charged with preventing wage depression and job losses
for U.S. workers. It would recommend to Congress and the president annual caps
on all worker visas. Congress would have to act to prevent the limits from
taking effect.

Legislation being drafted by Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Senate
Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) is expected to take a different tack,
said a Schumer aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The panel they
envision would have a stronger role in deciding immigrant-worker levels in
lower-skilled occupations -- such as hotel and restaurant jobs -- than in
higher-skilled ones.

The commission would issue recommendations for high-skilled worker visas and
wage levels, the aide said. For lower-skilled occupations, the commission could
declare "emergencies" when it sees an imbalance between foreign-worker supply
and demand. A vote in Congress would be required for the panel's recommended
immigration levels for these workers.

Employers or industries that hire lower-skilled immigrants could petition the
commission for temporary waivers of visa caps, although the commission would
first need to determine that it wouldn't be possible to hire U.S. workers for
the jobs.

Shawn McBurney, a lobbyist with the American Hotel & Lodging Association, said
resorts and hotel chains that rely on seasonal workers probably couldn't get
commission approval to hire more foreign workers in a timely manner.

"There's a lot of things a commission really can't do in real time," said
McBurney, whose group lobbies for companies such as Best Western International.

Corporations also want the final legislation to ensure that a commission can't
mandate flows for highly skilled immigrant labor, said Lynn Shotwell, executive
director of the American Council on International Personnel.

In 2000, after a lobbying push by technology companies, such as Microsoft, that
are facing worker shortages, Congress approved lifting, for three years, the
annual cap on H-1B visas for skilled temporary workers to 195,000 from 65,000.
Today, it is back at 65,000.

"While it's very difficult to get changes through Congress, a commission
wouldn't be any more responsive to business," said Shotwell, whose group
includes Amazon.com and Exxon Mobil as members. "A commission could be even less
responsive."

-- Bloomberg News

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mark Ralston / Agence France-presse/getty Images; Janitors in
Los Angeles hold a vigil in response to Arizona's law giving police new
stop-and-search powers. Calls have increased for overhauling immigration laws,
but Congress probably won't take it up, or the commission idea, until after
November's elections.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Early recess may mean election work, little play

BYLINE: IN SESSION

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 839 words


Democrats have a long list of national problems they say they want to solve.
Almost two months ago, after Arizona passed a controversial immigration law,
Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said that "the urgency for immigration reform
cannot be overstated." In his speech last week calling for a major energy bill,
President Obama said it was important to "seize the moment."

But on Friday, the office of House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.), who
directs the House's schedule, offered a telling signal of the declining
legislative momentum of Democrats in Congress. It released a memo detailing the
chamber's schedule for the rest of the year. House members, originally scheduled
to spend five weeks of recess in their districts this summer, will get to leave
Washington a week early -- Aug. 2 instead of Aug. 9.

The time is not likely to be spent on the beach. The schedule change could be
dubbed "the fierce urgency of winning reelection." It will provide wary
Democrats in contested districts one more week to campaign and one less week to
be in Washington casting votes their GOP opponents could turn against this them.

But it also provides one less week for passing key measures, another sign that
congressional Democrats might not have the stomach or the votes to push through
much more controversial legislation. Congress is not likely to pass major bills
in September and October, when members are even more focused on campaigning,
although it could push through some bills in the few weeks that it meets after
the elections.

"With unemployment near double-digits, no plan to offer a budget, and without a
bill passed to give our troops fighting overseas the money they need, this seems
an odd time for Democratic leaders to announce they want to do one less week of
work here in Washington," said Michael Steel, a spokesman for House Minority
Leader John A. Boehner (R-Ohio.)

Hoyer's spokeswoman, Katie Grant, said, "We want to give our members as much
time as possible to be back working in their districts and hearing from
constituents."

Republicans should welcome the extra recess, as they constantly complain
Democrats are passing too many bills too quickly. And much of the legislation
Democrats want to pass, such as changes to immigration laws, have little chance
of getting through Congress because of ardent GOP opposition.

But the memo illustrates a new dynamic on Capitol Hill: The era of big
legislation is nearing its end, at least until after the November elections. In
the first 17 months of the Obama administration, Democrats pushed through a $787
billion stimulus package and massive bills to change the health-care and
financial regulatory systems.

Now, Democrats, wary of the sticker shock of passing a bill that could be
described as more than $3 trillion in spending, have virtually abandoned trying
to pass a budget, a nonbinding document that has been approved in the House
every year for the past two decades. A bill to extend unemployment benefits has
been stalled for weeks, constantly shrinking in size to accommodate conservative
Democrats wary of increasing the deficit.

Facing opposition from Republicans and some Democrats, liberal lawmakers have
virtually abandoned pushing for changes to immigration laws or a New Deal-style
program in which the federal government would give states and localities
billions of dollars to hire unemployed people for public works jobs.

This legislative slowdown is not unusual; lawmakers in both parties usually
start shifting toward campaign mode by the summer before an election.

And Democrats have not stopped trying to legislate completely. Senate Democrats
are considering trying to pass some kind of energy legislation in the wake of
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and lawmakers are working to resolve differences
between the House and Senate versions of the regulatory reform bill so it can be
signed by Obama.

But the election dynamic is changing the agenda, as some lawmakers think now is
the time to focus on deficit reduction. The immigration legislation would not
cost much in terms of direct federal outlays of money, and no money is
appropriated through the budget. Both votes, however, would be politically
challenging.

"A lot depends on whether Democrats collectively make a judgment they are going
to be better off making a case based on the extraordinary output in Congress.
You can make the case; the best thing to say is, 'We acted, we did something on
energy, on the economy, on Wall Street,' " said Norman Ornstein at the American
Enterprise Institute. "But there is going to be a substantial sentiment saying,
'Enough already. Anything we do will put us more in the crosshairs.' "

Ornstein predicted that Democrats will push through an energy bill despite the
wariness and said that they might regret it if they don't try.

"This is your cliched 'window of opportunity,' " he said. "If you lose 30 seats
in the House or you lose the House entirely [after November], you won't be
talking about going too far. You won't be able to get anything done."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 2010 Wednesday



CORRECTION: -- A June 22 A-section article on remarks by House Majority Leader
Steny H. Hoyer (D-Md.) about whether to extend middle-class tax cuts included an
incomplete description of Hoyer's position. The article stated that although
Hoyer expects Congress to extend George W. Bush-era tax cuts set to expire at
the end of this year, he does not think the extension should be permanent. Hoyer
actually said the cuts should not be permanently extended unless "we have a real
plan for long-term deficit reduction."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 8, 2010 Thursday 4:50 PM EST

SEIU blasts Obama immigration enforcement policies

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu

LENGTH: 314 words



HIGHLIGHT: One of the nation's biggest labor unions, a major backer of President
Obama, is condemning his Department of Homeland Security's immigration
enforcement practices, protesting the use of deportation quotas for agents and
expanded workplace audits.


One of the nation's biggest labor unions, a major backer of President Obama, is
condemning his Department of Homeland Security's immigration enforcement
practices, protesting the use of deportation quotas for agents and expanded
workplace audits.

Eliseo Medina, international executive vice president of Service Employees
International Union, said SEIU members want DHS "to stop these crazy, irrational
policies," while seeking to turn up pressure on Congress to take up overhaul
legislation. SEIU is holding vigils and demonstrations Thursday in Oakland and
Sacramento, Calif., and then in Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Jose, Boston,
New York City and Minneapolis Friday.

While Obama and Homeland Security Janet Napolitano criticized the George W. Bush
administration for emphasizing factory raids and neighborhood sweeps, and
promised instead to focus on deporting the most dangerous illegal immigrants,
immigrant advocates said that thousands of ordinary workers are still being
forced into the underground economy by electronic audits of companies' hiring
records.

Combined with recent disclosures that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
is changing how it evaluates agents to emphasize caseload quotas and is widening
whom it targets for deportation to sustain high removal statistics, Medina said
the reality of DHS's actions is not matching the administration's rhetoric.

"They said they were going after criminals. They need to do that. They said they
were going after bad actor employers to take away the profit motive. They need
to do that. But instead, they are still going after meatpackers, janitors and
cooks," Medina said.

"There has been a failure with this strategy, and so there's a lot of anger
within our union, because we look at and see the everyday impact of these
policies, and it's the complete opposite of what they said they were going to
do," Medina said.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      April 24, 2010 Saturday 2:28 PM EST

Graham threatens to abandon climate energy bill push;
Graham threatens to abandon climate energy bill push

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 829 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) threatened to abandon his effort to
push a climate and energy bill Saturday, arguing that Democrats' efforts to pass
immigration legislation has undermined his faith in the process.


Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) threatened to abandon his effort to push a
climate and energy bill Saturday, arguing that Democrats' efforts to pass
immigration legislation has undermined his faith in the process.

In a letter to leaders of the effort to enact climate and energy legislation,
Graham wrote, "I want to bring to your attention what appears to be a decision
by the Obama Administration and Senate Democratic leadership to move immigration
instead of energy. Unless their plan substantially changes this weekend, I will
be unable to move forward on energy independence legislation at this time. I
will not allow our hard work to be rolled out in a manner that has no chance of
success."

Graham, along with Sens. John Kerry (D-Mass.) and Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.),
planned to unveil the climate proposal Monday.

Neither the White House nor Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) could be
immediately reached for comment.

Here is the text of Graham's letter:

April 24, 2010

Dear XXX,

I want to bring to your attention what appears to be a decision by the Obama
Administration and Senate Democratic leadership to move immigration instead of
energy. Unless their plan substantially changes this weekend, I will be unable
to move forward on energy independence legislation at this time. I will not
allow our hard work to be rolled out in a manner that has no chance of success.

Recent press reports indicating that immigration -- not energy -- is their
priority have not been repudiated. This has destroyed my confidence that there
will be a serious commitment and focus to move energy legislation this year. All
of the key players, particularly the Senate leadership, have to want this debate
as much as we do. This is clearly not the case.

I am very disappointed with this turn of events and believe their decision flies
in the face of commitments made weeks ago to Senators Kerry, Lieberman and me. I
deeply regret that election year politics will impede, if not derail, our
efforts to make our nation energy independent.

I truly appreciate Senators Kerry, Lieberman, and their staff for the long hours
of work. They have been tremendous partners who have negotiated in good faith
and stood ready to make the tough choices necessary to bring forward a
comprehensive energy bill.

I continue to believe our nation's reliance on ever-increasing amounts of
foreign oil poses a direct threat to our national security and economic
well-being. I know we can create thousands of jobs by pushing for a renaissance
in nuclear power, expanded offshore drilling, and unleashing America's
innovative spirit. One only needs to look to China and Europe, where 21st
Century clean energy jobs are currently being created while we fail to act.

Like you, I share the belief that becoming energy independent and better
stewards of our environment are complementary -- not competing -- standards. I
was greatly looking forward to the opportunity to address these issues on the
floor of the U.S. Senate as we pushed energy independence legislation forward
into law. But it appears President Obama and the Senate Democratic leadership
have other more partisan, political objectives in mind.

Moving forward on immigration -- in this hurried, panicked manner -- is nothing
more than a cynical political ploy. I know from my own personal experience the
tremendous amounts of time, energy, and effort that must be devoted to this
issue to make even limited progress.

In 2007, we spent hundreds of hours over many months with President Bush's
Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff, Secretary of Commerce Carlos
Gutierrez, and nearly every member of the U.S. Senate searching for a way to
address our nation's immigration problems. Unlike this current "effort," it was
a good-faith attempt to address a very difficult national issue.

Some of the major provisions we embraced in 2007 -- such as creation of a
Virtual Fence using cameras, motion detectors and other technological devices to
protect our borders -- have been scrapped for the time. Other issues we found
agreement on at the time, such as a temporary guest worker program, have
unraveled over the past three years.

Expecting these major issues to be addressed in three weeks -- which appears to
be their current plan based upon media reports -- is ridiculous. It also
demonstrates the raw political calculations at work here.

Let's be clear, a phony, political effort on immigration today accomplishes
nothing but making it exponentially more difficult to address in a serious,
comprehensive manner in the future.

Again, I truly appreciate the tremendous amount of time you have committed to
the effort to make our nation more energy independent. I look forward to
continuing to work with you so that when the U.S. Senate finally decides to
address this issue we will be prepared for battle and confident of a successful
outcome in the effort to make our nation energy independent once and for all.

Lindsey O. Graham

United States Senator

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 30, 2010 Friday 7:42 AM EST

Wonkbook: Dems release immigration proposal; Lindsey Graham upset; Goldman
facing jail time

BYLINE: Ezra Klein

LENGTH: 3115 words



HIGHLIGHT: Top Stories:


Top Stories:

Democrats release immigration proposal: "Their new proposal provides for a path
to citizenship for some of the estimated 11 million people in the U.S.
illegally, and it creates a guest-worker program," reports Laura Meckler. "But
the measure also calls for more federal enforcement agents, better equipment and
upgraded technology aimed at stopping people from illegally crossing the
border." Full proposal here (pdf).

But is it worth anything without Lindsey Graham? In an interview with me
yesterday, Lindsey Graham, the only Senate Republican committed to immigration
reform, ruled out action this year. "I'm playing pretty delicate politics here,"
he said. "I'm trying to let the business community and the Hispanic community
know that I'm in. I ain't going away. But while we're trying to do this very
hard thing that's energy and climate, I can't go down that road. I can't be
pressured down that road. If you go, I can't go with you. Some supporters of
immigration reform think I've abandoned them. But they're not listening. This is
just too far for me and for the issue this year."

FinReg amendments taking shape: "Sens. Ted Kaufman (D-Del.) and Sherrod Brown
(D-Ohio) are pushing legislation to break up big banks," reports Brady Dennis.
"Sens. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and Carl M. Levin (D-Mich.) introduced an amendment
that, among other things, would ban banks from making speculative investments
using their own capital -- an activity known as proprietary trading -- and from
owning a hedge fund or private-equity fund. Sens. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) and
John McCain (R-Ariz.) are pushing to re-introduce the Glass-Steagall provision,
repealed in 1999, that separates commercial from investment banking."

Goldman facing criminal charges? "The Securities and Exchange Commission has
referred its investigation of Goldman Sachs to the Justice Department for
possible criminal prosecution, less than two weeks after filing a civil
securities fraud case against the firm, according to a source familiar with the
matter," reports Zachary Goldfarb. "It is rare for the government to indict a
company, and even the threat of criminal prosecution can doom a business. A
criminal investigation destroyed the Wall Street firm Drexel Burnham Lambert in
the 1980s even though the firm settled with authorities. "

Methodologically-questionable internet-quiz interlude: How open-minded is your
media diet?

FinReg.

Blanche Lincoln's proposal to spin out derivatives desks becoming a flashpoint:
"'Rampant pandering populism' was [Judd Gregg's] favorite catchphrase; that and
Argentina under Juan Peron in the 1950s," reports David Rogers. "The Treasury --
albeit considerably calmer -- shares some of his concerns. An unusually
aggressive memo from the Federal Reserve staff recommends outright that the
provision be deleted. But at the insistence of Senate Agriculture Committee
Chairwoman Blanche Lincoln, it remains."

Both parties hate Wall Street; love Wall Street money: While Democrats push Wall
Street regulations on the Senate floor, Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd
(D-Conn.) and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) will head to Manhattan Monday for
a fundraiser with deep-pocketed donors who have ties to the financial industry,"
reports Manu Raju. "This type of event is not unusual -- both parties raise tons
of money from Wall Street at exclusive Manhattan fundraising events. But the
timing on this particular party may raise eyebrows because Democrats have been
bashing Wall Street throughout the financial reform debate."

Sen. Sherrod Brown makes the case for breaking up big banks: "Fifteen years ago,
the assets of the six largest U.S. banks made up 17 percent of our gross
domestic product," he writes. "Today, the top six banks make up 63 percent of
GDP. No wonder our economy's fate is tied to their stability. As former FDIC
chairman William M. Isaac has said, these banks are "too big to manage, and too
big to regulate." With mega-banks, a single insolvency can send our economy into
a tailspin. We shouldn't wait for trouble; we should avoid it.

A proposal to fix the ratings agencies: "David Raboy's ingenious plan calls for
the creation of an independent clearinghouse -- most likely within the
Securities and Exchange Commission -- to receive rating applications from
securities issuers and then farm out assignments in a random or unpredictable
way," writes James Lardner. The funding, which could come from a
financial-transaction fee, would need to cover the operations of the
clearinghouse as well as the ratings process itself." "The performance of the
rating agencies would periodically be compared on the basis of simple,
transparent criteria, such as the number of times that investment-grade bonds
defaulted or lost significant value. The most accurate rating agencies could be
rewarded with additional assignments. Those with the poorest records could, in
extreme cases, be suspended or removed from the pool."

Is the Dodd bill too kind to creditors? "The shareholders of a failed financial
firm would be wiped out, but creditors -- the people who lent it the money that
got it in trouble in the first place -- will be bailed out," writes Phillip
Swagel. "And this has real consequences, because if market participants know
they can be rescued for imprudent behavior, they will likely behave more
imprudently."

Do we need Fed reform? "The problems start with the basics of the Fed's outmoded
and undemocratic structure," writes Tim Fernholz. "Just consider the geographic
spectrum of the Fed's regional branches: five banks east of the Appalachian
Mountains -- including one in Richmond, Virginia, barely 100 miles from
Washington -- and only one bank west of the Rockies. Each of those banks is run
by a president and board of directors selected largely by the private banks they
are meant to regulate. At its most absurd, this involved a Goldman Sachs banker
being tapped to represent the public interest at the New York Federal Reserve."

Maybe we don't need new regulations after all? "Think of it this way," writes
Jonah Goldberg. "We are just as vulnerable as ever to the threat of Coca-Cola
releasing another New Coke. No laws have been passed to prevent it. No new
oversight authority has been created to warn of its looming threat. And yet, the
odds of Coca-Cola rolling out another debacle like New Coke are severely
limited. Why? Because, to paraphrase Roy Scheider in Jaws II, as God is their
witness the executives at Coca-Cola don't want to go through that Hell again."

No, that's crazy. "If there's a profession on the entire planet that has
aggressively declined to learn any lessons from its periodic collapse over the
past several millennia, it's high finance," writes Kevin Drum. "In This Time
It's Different, it takes the authors three columns of text spread over four
pages just to list the banking crises since 1800. They tally up 51 of them since
1980 alone. God knows I'm sympathetic to arguments about regulatory capture and
government collusion in blowing up financial bubbles, but even Alan Greenspan
has admitted that financial markets can't be trusted to self-regulate. Alan
Effin Greenspan."

Video interlude: This dude does not like quack mysticism.

Immigration.

World reacts to Arizona bill: "In Mexico City, Mayor Marcelo Ebrard announced he
would try to join lawsuits seeking to overturn the law, with a statement from
his office calling the measure 'a planned Apartheid against Mexicans,'" report
Jonathan Cooper and Paul Davenport. "Ebrard did not explain what legal standing
the Mexican capital would have before U.S. courts, but said the issue could be
taken to international human rights forums. "Meanwhile, officials in El
Salvador, which has about 2.8 million citizens living in the United States,
urged Salvadorans to avoid traveling to Arizona, according to the Foreign
Ministry. In Nicaragua, officials called on the Organization of American States
and the United Nations 'to take the necessary measures to safeguard the rights
of the Hispanic population.'" The governors of Texas and Colorado also came out
against the bill.

Election years are not good years for immigration reform: "Here's the
unfortunate irony," writes Mark McKinnon. "The Arizona situation is likely to
compel the Obama administration to push immigration reform up on its agenda. But
the worst possible time to discuss or pass meaningful, reasonable, responsible
immigration reform is during an election year. The debate and outcome will be
dominated by the extreme fringes. The administration would be better off having
the Justice Department and courts deal with constitutional issues of the law for
now and come back and craft comprehensive legislation after the elections."

Arizona targeting teachers with accents: "The Arizona Department of Education
recently began telling school districts that teachers whose spoken English it
deems to be heavily accented or ungrammatical must be removed from classes for
students still learning English," reports Miriam Jordan.

Northern California wants to boycott Arizona: In San Francisco, Mayor Gavin
Newsom issued an executive order that stops city officials from traveling to
Arizona and is looking into a broader ban on city business with Arizona
businesses," reports Mary Lu Carnavale. "City Attorney Dennis Herrera and
Supervisor David Campos have been pushing for a boycott since Friday when
Arizona enacted a tough immigration law that critics say will encourage racial
profiling." "But as the San Francisco Chronicle points out, a boycott could be
complicated. For starters, the city has contracted with an Arizona company to
process payments to some 2,500 people in a jobs program that channels federal
stimulus funds to companies that hire the unemployed."

Is enforcement working? "The main reason for the decline in unauthorized
immigration is probably not the temporary phenomenon of the recession," writes
Edward Schumacher-Matos. "If this were so, demand for work or residence visas
would be down, and it is not. And Mexico, the source of nearly six out of every
10 undocumented immigrants, is suffering an even worse recession than the United
States. No, a major -- if not the main -- reason for the drop is that
enforcement is working, something that many pro-immigration activists hate to
admit and that restrictionists refuse to recognize."

Enforcement doesn't need to come first. "Requiring successful enforcement of the
current immigration laws before they can be changed is a non sequitur," writes
Cato's Daniel Griswold. "It's like saying, in 1932, that we can't repeal the
nationwide prohibition on alcohol consumption until we've drastically reduced
the number of moonshine stills and bootleggers. But Prohibition itself created
the conditions for the rise of those underground enterprises, and the repeal of
Prohibition was necessary before the government could "get control" of its
unintended consequences."

Giant animal interlude: Good lord, that's a huge rabbit.

Energy.

Bill Nelson using Gulf of Mexico oil spill to challenge WH's offshore-drilling
proposal: "Obama gave no immediate sign of agreeing to a request in a letter
from Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) to halt all oil exploration off the U.S. coasts,"
report Josh Gerstein and Jeanne Cummings. "Nelson also urged Obama to impose an
immediate halt to any other test wells and exploratory activity in coastal
waters until the federal investigation into the cause of the April 20 Deepwater
Horizon explosion is complete. He said he was introducing legislation to
temporarily prohibit the Interior Department from exercising its authority to
expand drilling and suggested a congressional inquiry could be launched."

Is energy innovation the transformative project of the early-21st century?
"Energy innovation is the railroad legislation of today," writes David Brooks.
"This country is studded with venture capitalists, scientists, corporate
executives and environmental activists atremble over the great opportunities
they see ahead. The energy revolution is a material project that arouses moral
fervor -- exactly the sort of enterprise at which Americans excel."

Ever wondered why all windmills look the same? Brian Palmer is a man with
answers.

Economy.

Obama trying -- failing? -- to retain his economic advisers: "President Barack
Obama, trying to head off a staff exodus after the November elections, has been
pressing members of his economic team to stay with his administration until the
economy is on a stronger footing, reports Jonathan Weisman. "Despite Mr. Obama's
efforts, some members of the team, such as White House Budget Director Peter
Orszag and Council of Economic Advisers Chairwoman Christina Romer, are still
eying the exits." Did you know Puerto Rico was having a banking crisis -- "At
least three of Puerto Rico's banks -- Eurobank, R-G Premier Bank and Westernbank
-- are operating under cease-and-desist orders from regulators, restricting
their ability to make new loans," reports Eric Dash. "They had been given until
March 31 to raise new capital or combine with healthier banks. Now that the
deadline has come and gone, regulators have been working on a confidential plan
to auction off the lenders, according to several people involved in the
situation. It is known as Project Themis, after the Greek goddess of divine law
and order." Sidenote: If I were structuring a bank rescue right now, I would not
name it after anything Greek.

Jobless claims down: "The number of U.S. workers filing new claims for jobless
benefits continued to fall last week, the latest sign that the labor market is
thawing," report Sarah Lynch and Jeff Bater. Initial claims for unemployment
benefits declined by 11,000 to 448,000 in the week ended April 24, the Labor
Department said in its weekly report Thursday."

Recipe interlude: Farmer's cheese gnocchi.

Health-care reform.

Anthem rate hikes rejected: "WellPoint Inc. said it would revise its request for
steep rate hikes in California's individual market, after a state regulator said
it found flaws in the company's application," reports Anna Wilde Matthews. "The
proposed premium increases by the company's Anthem Blue Cross unit would have
affected more than 700,000 consumers, who would have seen their rates go up by
as much as 39%. The hikes became a big political issue at the state and federal
levels, leading to high-profile hearings in Washington, D.C., and helping to
generate momentum for the recently passed health overhaul."

States ambivalent over setting up high-risk pools: Friday is the deadline for
states to tell the Obama administration whether they want to run the high-risk
insurance pool for uninsured people with pre-existing conditions, or whether
they will leave the task to Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human
services," reports Robert Pear. "Democratic officials in Montana, Pennsylvania,
Washington and Wisconsin, among other states, said they intended to operate the
program under contract with the federal government. They were joined by Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican, who gave a rousing
endorsement of President Obama's health plan at a news conference." But
Republican officials in Georgia, Indiana, Nebraska and Nevada turned down the
opportunity to run the high-risk pool, as did at least one Democratic governor,
Dave Freudenthal of Wyoming. Mr. Freudenthal said he worried that his state's
federal allotment of $8 million "may prove insufficient" to subsidize coverage
for the next three and a half years. The temporary federal program runs from
July to Jan. 1, 2014, when insurers will be required to accept all applicants."

Can we tackle payment reform now? "Last November, researchers from Children's
Hospital Boston reported interim results from a community-based asthma program
that used case managers, home health aides, and outreach to coordinate the
proper steps for children with severe asthma," writes Darshak Sanghavi. "Within
six months, emergency-room visits dropped by 60 percent. Hospitalizations fell
by 80 percent and stayed down for a year. And yet, according to a legislative
liaison from the hospital, 'in the current traditional health care system, these
kinds of workers' --such as home-visiting nurses and case managers --'are not
providers that have been able to bill or get any payment for their services.'"

Eugene Robinson isn't impressed by the lazy nostalgia in the 'Chicken Care'
fantasy: "[Sue Lowden's] words conjured the image of a kindly old man named Doc
who made the rounds of frontier homesteads," writes Robinson, "presumably with
his horse and buggy, and fixed everybody up, good as new -- 'Just pay me when
you can, Sue.' But the truth is that in those days, doctors routinely watched
people die from diseases that are easily cured today; simple infections and even
childbirth carried grave risks. The care that Doc could give wasn't worth much
more than a chicken."

Labor.

Why did the SEIU elect Mary Kay Henry as Andy Stern's successor? There is
widespread concern within the union that Stern had gratuitously estranged allies
(chiefly, other unions), and that SEIU's legendary organizing gains have
grounded to a halt," reports Harold Meyerson. "The union, many believe, needs
new strategic directions. Some of Henry's backers, including her fellow
executive vice-presidents Tom Woodruff and Dave Regan, favor a return to
traditional organizing. Others, including other fellow executive vice-presidents
Gerald Hudson and Eliseo Medina, favor the union immersing itself more deeply in
a range of social causes (Medina has been a leading champion of immigrants'
rights for years)."

Obama administration trying to crack down on labor-law violations: "In a move
that will affect most American corporations, the Labor Department plans to
require companies to prepare and adopt compliance plans aimed at ensuring they
do not violate wage, job safety and equal employment laws," reports Steve
Greenhouse. "The effort, aimed in part at reducing the incidence of employers
not paying overtime and improperly classifying workers as independent
contractors, will require them to document many of their decisions and share
that information with their workers and the government." "At a recent Georgetown
University forum on the labor movement (in which I participated), Hudson argued
that expecting legislation such as the Employee Free Choice Act to pass on the
basis of an inside-the-Beltway campaign was misguided, and that the union needed
to help create a larger social movement embracing a number of progressive causes
before it would see its own priorities enacted. Henry, say several SEIU leaders,
shares this perspective."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 4, 2010 Tuesday 1:00 PM EST

Opinion Focus with Eugene Robinson

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2759 words



HIGHLIGHT: Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson will be online to discuss
his recent columns and the latest news.>Read today's column
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/05/03/AR2010050303383.
htmlBorder security isn't the problem in which Gene writes: "The notion that the
first thing to do is "secure the border" between the United States and Mexico --
and only then worry about comprehensive immigration reform -- falls somewhere
between hopeful fantasy and cynical cop-out. It's a good sound bite but would be
a ridiculous policy."


Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson will be online to discuss his recent
columns and the latest news.Read today's column
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/05/03/AR2010050303383.
html'>Border security isn't the problem in which Gene writes: "The notion that
the first thing to do is "secure the border" between the United States and
Mexico -- and only then worry about comprehensive immigration reform -- falls
somewhere between hopeful fantasy and cynical cop-out. It's a good sound bite
but would be a ridiculous policy."

_______________________

Eugene Robinson: Hello, everyone. Welcome to our weekly free-for-all. I was all
set to talk about immigration today. This morning's column says that those who
say "secure the border first" before looking at a comprehensive solution are not
living in the real world -- that there are practical, political, economic and
diplomatic reasons why a Berlin Wall along all 2,000 miles of the U.S.-Mexico
border won't and shouldn't be built. But immigration has been overtaken by
terrorism, as we learn more every hour about the attempted car-bombing in Times
Square. And meanwhile, of course, oil continues to flow from that mile-deep well
in the Gulf of Mexico. Lots to talk about -- let's get started.

_______________________

Open Borders?: Eugene,You wrote,"The answer is not a bigger wall. And the answer
surely is not Arizona's shameful new law, which, Gordon said, "doesn't do one
thing but make our city less safe." So your answer is amnesty for illegals and
allow just about anyone who wants to come here are welcomed with no
restrictions.I'm reminded of Rick Santelli's rant on CNBC last year. Can you at
least acknowledge the anger that millions of Americans and immigrants (like my
grandparents) feel about that, people who obey the law and do the responsible
thing and feel like damn fools for doing so?

Eugene Robinson: I acknowledge the anger, but I honestly don't understand it --
not its intensity, at least. There are some bad people who have come into the
country illegally, and I can see being angry about that. But what did the people
who are picking crops, making beds in hotels and landscaping homes ever do to
you to make you angry?

_______________________

Border Security: You offer absoutely no resolution or remedy....so what is your
point?

Eugene Robinson: I do -- a comprehensive plan that would allow the productive
undocumented immigrants who are already settled here to stay; some sort of
program that allows temporary workers to come and go; more legal visas for
Mexicans and other Latin Americans, so they have some hope of being able to come
legitimately, which they don't now; and, yes, tighter border security that stops
short of a new Berlin Wall.

_______________________

Border Security: The idea of securing the border is not ridiculous. Rather, it
is a vital component of comprehensive immigration reform. As was proven by the
last amnesty under President Reagan, a path to citizenship without securing the
border only invites more illegal immigration. Many of us would be far more
willing accept a path to citizenship as long as it were coupled with sealing the
border to ensure it would be the last time. Why are people on your side of the
aisle so reluctant to do what most other countries in the world do - ensure the
integrity and sovereignty of our borders?

Eugene Robinson: I've yet to hear of a practical way to seal the U.S.-Mexico
border, short of some kind of enormous barrier. I've been a lot of places around
the world, and most borders I've seen are pretty porous when people really want
to cross them.

_______________________

Your last couple of columns: Gene, your last couple of columns about the mess in
Arizona have been really outstanding.That's it. No question. Keep firing
away.Mudge

Eugene Robinson: Thanks. Somebody's got my back.

_______________________

Border Security Q&A: Eugene,Every time immigration reform is mentioned regarding
the illegal aliens, a 'path to citizenship' is part of the deal. Why is
citizenship the end goal? Wouldn't a permanent residency status be sufficient
for workers to reside and integrate into our country? Doesn't providing a path
to citizenship reek of 'voting' for a particular political party? Citizenship is
normally reserved for those with good character traits which does not include
breaking laws.

Eugene Robinson: Not all of the undocumented would want to become citizens, I
suppose, but isn't it better to have them fully invested in the country? You
know, before 1875, we basically had no immigration laws at all -- come one, come
all. Latinos are assimilating just like their predecessors. Why not citizenship?

_______________________

San Diego, CA: Eugene, I can only guess where you stand on the oil spill issue,
since I've missed your past few columns, but I have heard plenty from the enviro
NIMBY's about how this is proof positive to not "Drill Baby Drill." I'd like to
offer a counter argument. First, when was the last US spill even approaching
this magnitude? Exxon Valdez 3 decades ago. And before that? Santa Barbara 5
decades ago. That seems like a pretty good track record to me. Add to that the
fact that to drill in or off the US, you must imploy THE best and safest
technologies, and the US has among THE most stringent regulations on this
industry in the world. Oil will continue to be pumped to meet demand. Either we
can do some of it in the most environemntally friendly way possible (not barring
the very occasional accident like we're seeing now) or we can have other
countries do it, where environmental protection is not nearly their chief
concern, and incidentally, where any accidents will cheifly impact brown, poor
people. But hey, so long as we have our shrimp and pristine beaches, who cares
about them, right?

Eugene Robinson: I've heard a lot of this recently -- sudden concern for the
delicate environment of the delta region in Nigeria. My friend and colleague
Jonathan Capehart wrote a piece to this effect yesterday. I think the fact that
other countries despoil their waters and wetlands is no reason to despoil ours.
That said, the cat has been out of this bag for a long time -- there are
thousands of oil rigs off our shores. The question about new drilling is whether
the marginal increase in the domestic oil supply is worth the potential
environmental cost. I confess that I haven't really worked that out. One thing
that's obvious, however, is that we need new safety procedures and equipment,
and that rigs need to be a certain distance from the shoreline.

Andrea Caumont: Here's that Capehart piece:Sarah Palin makes sense -- on
offshore drilling

_______________________

NY Bombing: The way this investigation has played out I'm suprised the anti Bush
crowd hasn't made more noise. This is a great example of how treating terrorism
like a criminal/policing problem rather than a military problem works. No enemy
combatants, no disappearing people, no enhanced techniques; all phone logs,
video, and interviews. Obama should crow about it a bit more I think.

Eugene Robinson: You're referring, of course, to the Times Square attempted
bombing. Yes, from what we know now, it was pure, classic, terrifically
efficient police work that cracked this case. The system worked.

_______________________

The racial element: This is largely about race, isn't it? I realize that there
are economic issues, and that there may be security issues along the border. But
a lot of these rightwingers are freaked out because the country is changing in
general and by the fact that Obama doesn't look like presidents are "supposed
to." Am I wrong?

Eugene Robinson: Well, there you go again, getting to the uncomfortable heart of
the issue. Yes, I think some of the anger comes from the fact that this is
becoming a nation of minorities -- there will be no white majority by 2050 --
and I think that for some people, the fact that the first brown-skinned
president sits in the White House brings this new reality home in an
uncomfortable way.

_______________________

Latinos are assimilating just like their predecessors. ?: So why don't I see
signs in Czech like I see signs in Spanish. My ancestors assimilated, these
people do not.

Eugene Robinson: We sharae a continent, a border, a history and a culture with
the most populous Spanish-speaking nation in the world. If we had a border with
the Czech Republic, and there were 100 million Czechs there -- and millions of
recently arrived Czech-Americans here -- you'd see signs in Czech.

_______________________

Border Security: "Allow the productive undocumented immigrants who are already
settled here to stay." Sounds good. How about unproductive immigrants? How would
you define such people? How would you identify them? Would they be subject to
some sort of punishment for being here illegally, or would you simply deport
them (allowing them to attempt to re-cross the border)?There are a lot of
practical difficulties with selective amnesty. A better approach would be to
apprehend and punish all persons who are violating our laws, including
immigration laws, while making it much easier for those that abide by our laws
to obtain legal, temporary visas, right?

Eugene Robinson: You deal with the violation of the immigration laws with a
fine. You throw out undocumented immigrants who have violated our criminal (not
immigration) laws, and I don't mean anyone who has a single speeding ticket.

_______________________

fence at the border: Isn't the strongest argument against the 2000-mile fence
the havoc it would wreak among migratory animals (the non-homo sapien kind)?Or
are Arizonans also upset about illegal alien antelopes?

Eugene Robinson: That's one strong argument that I didn't mention. Critters
don't bother to apply for visas.

_______________________

Burden: "We are not one world." You cannot have both open borders, open
government lines of credit and open taxpayer wallets. We are already over taxed
and over spent and in huge debt because of burgeoning entitlement programs. The
unabated flow of immigrants is not sustainable. That's why immigrations laws are
written in the first place. To suggest that borders are but racial divides is
harsh. I cannot just go to Canada or Europe to live. We have an educational,
medical and social services network set up to serve those paying into it. My
pockets are tapped, I don't know about yours. The ball is in the Fed court to
act. The oath of office to protect and defend has been recited. Get going.

Eugene Robinson:  studies that come down on both sides of the question of
whether undocumented immigrants are a net plus or a net minus to the economy,
but they're certainly not the reason why your pockets and my pockets are tapped.
That's because we demand more from our government than we're willing to pay for.

_______________________

Assimilation: The people whining about Latinos not assimilating are just wrong.
I have known any number of kids of Latino immigrants over the years. Almost
invariably they are fully part of American life, speak fluent English, and
completely identify politically with the US. even if they maintain some of their
cultural traditions. A surprising number are veterans of the US
military.Immigrants come to this country. Depending on age, education, social
status, and opportunities they may or may not learn much English. They have
kids, who are bilingual and bicultural. Those kids in turn have kids who are
monolingual English speakers, and may not even be able to talk to their
grandparents.It's been that way forever, and it's still that way now.

Eugene Robinson: This is exactly what all the research says.

_______________________

Consequences for Republicans: The Latino percentage of the electorate is
considerable and growing. Is this action going to seriously hurt the
Republicans?

Eugene Robinson: Polls show that Latinos -- the biggest, fastest-growing
minority group in the country -- feel strongly about the immigration issue.
Latinos voted by 2-to-1 for Obama over McCain in the last election. If
Republicans alienate Latino voters for a generation or two, the way the party
alienated African-Americans with the "Southern Strategy" in 1968, it's hard to
see how the GOP wins national elections.

_______________________

NY Bombing: "The system worked." Come again? As far as we know (and it's still
early), the only reason why we do not have a crater in Times Square right now is
because some terrorist moron forgot to wire the bomb together correctly. Law
enforcement and the federal governemnt did a great job running the terrorist
plot to ground *after* it had been implemented (just like after 9/11), but the
goal should be to prevent these attacks in the first place. The system failed.

Eugene Robinson: There is no imaginable system that would prevent every
terrorist attempt in this country. It could be done, but not in a country that
values freedom. One of the safest places I've ever been is Cuba, where there are
informers in every neighborhood, police on every block in busy areas, no freedom
of speech or press or assembly. It was the only country, I've been told, where
security was not tightened at the U.S. diplomatic mission after 9/11, because it
was clear that no al-Qaeda attack was even remotely possible. There's an awfully
high price to be paid for total security.

_______________________

Why Now?: Good column. Since the border crossings have been dropping and crime
rates along the border have been steady, why do you think this has become an
issue now? I might have expected this during the worst of the economic dip a
year or so ago, when the scaremongering by politicians might have been even more
effective? Do you think Rachel Maddow has a point about the originators of the
Arizona law having ties to white supremacist ideology? I see a pattern with this
law and the Tea Partiers, whose members deny racist motives but who use racist
code phrases like "people who don't want to work" and "welfare class."

Eugene Robinson: I've spent time in Arizona and I believe that most of the
people who are upset about illegal immigration are not driven by racist or
white-supremacist motives. But I believe that some probably are.

_______________________

Czech yourself: When I was growing up in Baltimore there were whole
neighborhoods where the store signs were in Greek, Italian, German and Polish.
People spoke the languages that they brought with them. So why are we upset that
people raised speaking spanish have signs in spanish? Furthermore, a cursory
glance at US history will remind anyone that alot of those Spanish speakers were
here in the US (California, New Mexico, Arizona, Texas) before it was the US.
Indeed, California in 1843 was still called Mexico and the Spanish speaking
folks there didn't like english speaking immigrants who refused to learn spanish
and convert to Catholicism. In the US we don't have suc h religious or
linguistic litmus tests. Or, at least we're not supposed to according to the
Constitution.

Eugene Robinson: That's my inderstanding of history and the Constitution as
well.

_______________________

immigration and ghg emissions: Mr. Robinson,the Pew Research Center projects
that the US population will increase from the current 308 million (Census) to
438 million in 2050. Four fifths of that growth will be due to immigration and
children of immigrants, according to Pew. The average immigrant's greenhouse gas
emissions increase four-fold following arrival in the US. Waxman-Markey would
mandate reducing US ghg emissions by 80% by 2050. Do you think that some
technological deus ex machina will bail us out, or are we just going to fail to
reduce our greenhouse gas emissions? And is it maybe irresponsible to advocate
amnesty without concurrently putting policies in place to stabilize the US
population?

Eugene Robinson: I've never really been a fan of population-control policies of
any kind -- people should make their own decisions about how many children to
have, and birth rates always decline as women's education rises. One other way
to look at immigration -- legal and illegal -- is that it's the only thing that
gives us a chance to avoid the economic sclerosis that faces Europe and Japan.
Immigrants are young and they have children; this keeps our population from
aging as rapidly as in other industrialized societies, which means more people
of working age to pay for the retirement of all the old people. (Spoken like a
Baby Boomer, I guess.)Anyway, my time is up for today, folks. Thanks for tuning
in, and see you again next week.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       May 13, 2010 Thursday 10:34 AM EST

The Fix: Immigration becoming dicey political issue

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 1454 words



HIGHLIGHT: 1. Immigration, thrust into the national consciousness following the
passage of an Arizona law deemed by many to be the most restrictive in the
country, is emerging as a potentially potent political issue this fall.


1. Immigration, thrust into the national consciousness following the passage of
an Arizona law deemed by many to be the most restrictive in the country, is
emerging as a potentially potent political issue this fall.

In Gallup's survey of the most important problems facing the nation released
Wednesday, those naming immigration jumped from two percent in April to 10
percent in May -- a rapid rise that made it the third most commonly cited
response.

Not surprisingly, the Gallup data showed that self identified conservatives (12
percent calling it the biggest problem) and Republicans (14 percent) were the
most likely to see immigration as a major issue confronting the country.

On the heels of the Gallup data came a  national poll from NBC and the Wall
Street Journal that suggests that a near-majority of Americans strongly support
the Arizona immigration law.

Forty-six percent offered strong support for the measure while 24 percent were
strongly opposed -- a major passion disparity that will surely be noticed by
strategists in both parties trying to game out how the immigration issue will
affect turnout this fall.

(Worth noting: The NBC/WSJ poll question on the Arizona law explained it thusly:
"The Arizona law makes it a state crime to be in the U.S. illegally. It requires
local and state law enforcement officers to question people about their
immigration status if they have reason to suspect a person is in the country
illegally, making it a crime for them to lack registration documents.)

While the NBC/WSJ poll would suggest that politicians in swing areas --
particularly culturally conservative House districts -- would be better off
backing the Arizona legislation, there remains political peril in doing so among
Hispanic voters. Among that group, nearly six in ten strongly oppose the Arizona
law and another 12 percent somewhat oppose it.

Given the rapid population growth of Hispanics -- and their expected development
into a major political force in coming elections -- voicing support for the
Arizona law could cause politicians some long term pains. But, if the NBC/WSJ
and Gallup numbers are right, it may be in the service of some short term
political gains.

2. With just five days to go in the special House election in Pennsylvania's
12th district, the race has become a cause celebre for numerous conservative
groups who are heavily outspending their liberal counterparts.

The investments on the Republicans side range from the tiny ($704 from the Move
America Forward Freedom PAC) to the more substantial ($100,000 from the Chamber
of Commerce). But one thing is obvious: they all want a piece of the hottest
race in town on Tuesday.

According to FEC reports and media accounts, more than half a dozen third-party
groups have now weighed in on Republican businessman Tim Burns's behalf, and
that doesn't include the $959,000 the National Republican Congressional
Committee has spent on the race in independent expenditures.

In addition to the spending by the NRCC and the Chamber, the Eagle Forum PAC has
spent $4,500, the National Republican Trust PAC has spent $8,000, Americans for
Prosperity has spent $64,000, and former Sen. Norm Coleman's (R-Minn.) American
Action Network is spending another $26,000 on a radio ad, according to Federal
Election Commission reports filed last night.

Including the NRCC's money, GOP-aligned groups have spent more than $1.1 million
-- a large sum but not the millions that some might have expected given the
import of the race to Republicans hoping to build momentum heading into the
fall. Still, the overall spending on the GOP side is significantly outpacing the
spending of Democratic committees and aligned groups.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has spent $767,000 in
independent expenditures in support of former congressional staffer Mark Critz
(D) and the Alliance for Retired Americans PAC has dropped another $38,000 --
for a combined $805,000 in pro-Democratic spending.

Both sides see the race as a must-win but, in truth, it is a muster-win for
Republicans who have to prove they can emerge victorious in seats like this one
-- Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) carried it in 2008 -- to make a reasonable case
that the majority is in play this fall.

3. A new automated poll in Kentucky shows ophthalmologist Rand Paul leading
Secretary of State Trey Grayson by 16 points with just days remaining in their
Republican primary fight for the Senate nomination.

Paul, the eldest son of Texas Rep. Ron Paul (R), took 49 percent of the vote to
33 percent for Grayson in the Survey USA poll. (Worth noting: Survey USA
conducts automated phone call interviews, a methodology that remains somewhat
controversial in the polling community.)

Those numbers are consistent with much -- although not all -- of the other
publicly released polling in the race.

A survey done for the Lexington Herald-Leader last week showed Paul up 44
percent to 32 percent over Grayson.

But, Grayson's campaign has released two surveys -- and the American Future
Fund, an conservative outside organization based in Iowa has released another --
that shows the race far closer.

Most neutral observers see Paul, who has benefited from the strong backing of
the tea party movement nationally, as the favorite. Grayson, while carrying the
support of Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.) and Rep. Hal Rogers
(Ky.), has struggled to find attacks that stick to the frontrunning Paul.

While it has drawn less attention, the Senate Democratic primary may wind up
being the far closer race.

The Bluegrass poll showed Lt. Gov. Dan Mongiardo at 38 percent and state
Attorney General Jack Conway at 37 percent. Less than a week ago, Mongiardo held
a seven-point edge in the Herald-Leader survey.

ALSO READ: The Post's Amy Gardner on how the Paul-Grayson race is a McConnell
proxy war.

4. A week removed from Wisconsin Democratic Rep. David Obey's retirement,
Republican candidate Sean Duffy is up with his first TV ad.

In it, Duffy plays up his profile as a father of six, lumberjack sports
athlete(!) and prosecutor (no mention of his stint on the "Real World"!?), and
focuses on recent news that a Harley Davidson plant may leave the state -- all
in a recognizable Wisconsin accent.

"You send me to Washington, I'm going to work to keep our businesses open, to
create jobs right here in the great state of Wisconsin," Duffy says in the ad.

The early ad buy serves notice that Duffy is ready for a fight before the other
candidates can even get off the ground. Duffy raised more than half a million
dollars before Obey bowed out while Democrats have to start from ground zero
when it comes to raising money.

Duffy currently faces primary opposition in September from 2008 nominee Dan
Mielke, who lost to Obey 61 percent to 39 percent. Democratic leaders have
coalesced around state Sen. Julie Lassa as their candidate.

The open seat race has climbed up the GOP's target list, though the district
remains Democratic-leaning. It went 56 percent to 42 for President Obama in 2008
but the two previous Democratic presidential nominees carried it by a narrower
margin

The Cook Political Report rates the race a toss up while the Rothenberg
Political Report sees it as a leaning Democratic seat.

5. Hours before Florida Gov. Charlie Crist submitted paperwork formally changing
his party affiliation from Republican to "no party affiliation," a spokesperson
for his campaign said that he would not be returning any donations made while
the governor was still a Republican -- a reversal from late April, when Crist
told MSNBC's Joe Scarborough the morning after his party switch that he'd
"probably" give donors their funds back.

Former state House Speaker Marco Rubio (R), whose rise drove Crist from the
party, issued a statement Wednesday night accusing the governor of "going back
on his word to Floridians." Rubio's campaign will also launch a web video on the
issue to today set to the classic tune "Take the money and run" (natch).

National Republican Senatorial Committee Chairman John Cornyn (Texas) wrote a
letter to Crist stating that he was "disappointed" with his campaign's refusal
of donors' refund requests. And the Club for Growth has been pushing Crist to
return the funds, in an effort similar to its successful campaign when Sen.
Arlen Specter (D-Pa.) made his own party switch last year.

Crist isn't legally obligated to return the money -- and with money a major
question mark in his fledgling independent candidacy he appears to have made the
decision to take the short term public relations rather than run the risk of
giving back large chunks of his warchest.

As of the end of March, Crist had $7.6 million cash-on-hand to Rubio's $3.9
million and Rep. Kendrick Meek's (D) $3.7 million.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 2, 2010 Friday 7:33 AM EST

Wonkbook: Republicans reject immigration push; Brooksley Born and Eliot Spitzer
on FinReg; Bingaman takes over climate

BYLINE: Ezra Klein

LENGTH: 1998 words



HIGHLIGHT: Obama renewed his call for immigration reform yesterday, but
Republicans in the Senate -- even the ones who supported immigration reform when
Bush tried it -- are not biting. On the bright side for Obama, Maria Cantwell
has pledged her support for FinReg, leaving only two votes to go until a
filibuster can be broken. Brooksley Born, the former-regulator who tried to get
derivatives under control in the 90s, has weighed in with supportive comments on
the bill. But Eliot Spitzer, has come out in strong opposition.


Obama renewed his call for immigration reform yesterday, but Republicans in the
Senate -- even the ones who supported immigration reform when Bush tried it --
are not biting. On the bright side for Obama, Maria Cantwell has pledged her
support for FinReg, leaving only two votes to go until a filibuster can be
broken. Brooksley Born, the former-regulator who tried to get derivatives under
control in the 90s, has weighed in with supportive comments on the bill. But
Eliot Spitzer, has come out in strong opposition.

On climate, Senate Democrats decided to put Jeff Bingaman in charge, replacing
John Kerry, who'd been aggressively working on the issue for months. Bingaman's
much less of a true believer on the issue than Kerry is, and this is another
signal that substantial compromise is in the offing. Meanwhile, new job numbers
come out today at 8:30am. Here's hoping.

It's Friday. It's finally Friday. Welcome to Wonkbook.

Top Stories

From President Obama's remarks on immigration reform: "The politics of who is
and who is not allowed to enter this country, and on what terms, has always been
contentious. And that remains true today. And it's made worse by a failure of
those of us in Washington to fix a broken immigration system." Full remarks
here.

Obama singled out the eleven Republican Senators who backed immigration reform
in 2006, but they don't look interested, reports Michael Savage: "Laena Fallon,
a spokeswoman for Sen. Judd Gregg (N.H.), said the senator is interested in
fixing the immigration system. But she added that he had made it clear he 'does
not support any initiative promoting comprehensive reform until the president
and this administration get serious about controlling our borders.' A spokesman
for Sen. Richard G. Lugar (Ind.) said the senator thinks it is simply the wrong
moment for reform. 'There really is not the political landscape to proceed with
it at this time,' he said."

Maria Cantwell's support means FinReg needs only two more votes, with three
Republicans still on the fence, reports Chris Frates: "Sen. Scott Brown remains
on the fence even after Democrats took the unusual step of reopening the
House-Senate conference committee to remove a $19 billion bank fee he opposed.
Sen. Olympia Snowe reportedly approves of the elimination of the bank fee and
has been talking with Democratic Senate Banking Committee chairman Chris Dodd.
Sen. Chuck Grassley has said he would consider the final bill."

Eliot Spitzer thinks Congress blew its chance on FinReg: "The bill by and large
reinvests regulators with the same discretion they had--and failed to
use--before the crisis. The theory underlying the bill is simple: 'Trust
us--next time we will do better.' Indeed, in virtually every case, the very same
people are still in the positions they had before the cataclysm."

Brooksley Born said she would support the FinReg bill, reports Victoria McGrane:
http://bit.ly/co0U7q

Jeff Bingaman is taking over from John Kerry as the Senate climate bill's
shepherd, reports Coral Davenport: "Some of his colleagues worry that Bingaman's
mild-mannered modesty could be a hindrance when it comes time to round up votes.
Democratic Whip Dick Durbin on Wednesday praised Kerry's passionate efforts on
climate change. 'John Kerry devoted almost all his waking moments to bringing
this bill forward -- I've never seen him commit himself in this manner since he
ran for president. He was able to be the leading force on this in our caucus.'
Asked if Bingaman could bring the same passion and be a leading force on the
issue, Durbin said, 'I don't know.'"

Jeff Bingaman will likely support a very limited bill, writes Brad Plumer:
"Bingaman's been insisting that it's 'difficult' to envision a cap on carbon
pollution getting 60 votes. That's not the sort of thing you say when you're
preparing for a showdown. Instead, Bingaman's cobbling together a more modest
bill that would only cap pollution from electric utilities (see here for the
merits of that approach). He also has an energy bill that passed out of his
committee last fall that would offer subsidies to various alternative-energy
industries and force utilities to buy (a very modest amount) of renewable power.
Combine all those together and you have a fairly weak bill that wouldn't do
nearly enough to put a dent in greenhouse gases and stop global warming. "

Marxist theory interlude: David Harvey explains the financial crisis - with
cartoons!

Still to come: The House passed a "budget enforcement resolution" that leaves
the tough decisions to the president's fiscal commission; Bingaman does not want
to add carbon pricing in conference committee; the NRA will make Kagan a key
vote; and the best zingers in the history of cinema.

Economy/ FinReg

The House passed a "budget enforcement resolution" by five votes, but not a full
budget, reports Walter Alarkon: "The 'budget enforcement resolution' Democrats
are substituting for a traditional budget resolution sets discretionary spending
for 2011 at $1.12 trillion, about $7 billion less than Obama's proposal and $3
billion less than a Senate Democratic plan. It also sets a goal of cutting
deficits to the point where revenues equal all spending except for interest
payments on the debt....But unlike traditional budget resolutions, this year's
version doesn't detail how Congress should reach that goal, leaving those tough
decisions to Obama's bipartisan fiscal commission."

A vote on extending the Bush tax cuts likely won't come this year:
http://bit.ly/d2pJRw

Housing is pulling down the economy, reports Dina ElBoghdady: "In a report last
month, Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing Studies singled out high
joblessness as 'one of the biggest drags' on the housing market. Based on past
downturns, the report concluded that employment growth is highly correlated to a
sustained housing recovery, even more so than falling mortgage interest rates."

Steve Pearlstein isn't sold on aid to state and local governments:
http://bit.ly/dfRkJ2

Mortgage bonds are selling high again, reports Mark Gongloff: "Investors are
seeking out mortgage bonds backed by the U.S. government as a safe haven from
the tumult of the global economy, a reversal of fortune that has helped drive
mortgage rates for consumers to record lows....The implied government backing of
mortgage debt issued by government-sponsored entities such as Freddie Mac and
Fannie Mae seems to offer a risk-free investment at a slightly higher yield than
comparable Treasury debt."

The IMF is considering creating a global fund to provide capital to countries in
crisis, reports Howard Schneider: "A U.S. official familiar with the discussion
said the Obama administration considered the idea 'intellectually appealing' but
would vet any proposal closely to ensure 'the design is sound and safeguards IMF
resources.' As the world's largest economy, the United States is responsible for
about 17 percent of the fund's more than $300 billion in quota contributions and
has a roughly equivalent share of voting power on the IMF board."

Paul Krugman argues the idea that economic growth follows austerity is a
convenient myth: "What's the evidence for the belief that fiscal contraction is
actually expansionary, because it improves confidence? (By the way, this is
precisely the doctrine expounded by Herbert Hoover in 1932.) Well, there have
been historical cases of spending cuts and tax increases followed by economic
growth. But as far as I can tell, every one of those examples proves, on closer
examination, to be a case in which the negative effects of austerity were offset
by other factors, factors not likely to be relevant today."

Cineaste interlude: The 100 greatest insults in movies.

Energy

Jeff Bingaman does not want to add climate pricing in during conference
committee, reports Stephen Power: "Bingaman, chairman of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, warned his colleagues against assuming they can pass a bill
before the election with popular items - such as incentives for wind and solar
power and electric cars - and then add more controversial provisions, such as a
cap on carbon emissions, in a conference committee with the House after the
election. That approach, he said, has failed in the past."

Navy Secretary Mabus says a plan to restore the Gulf will be coming shortly,
reports Catherine Cheney: "Mabus said past projects by organizations like the
Louisiana Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority have already been
authorized by Congress, but lack funding to move forward. It is these sorts of
plans, he said, that will be incorporated into a comprehensive strategy for Gulf
Coast restoration. Mabus said BP would be expected to pay not only for the
cleanup effort, but also for the long term recovery efforts related to the
spill."

Lee Hudson Teslik and Christian Menegatti think the economic damage from the
spill is being overblown: http://bit.ly/aF3NRU

Per-capita emissions in China are at developed country levels, reports James
Kanter: "The Dutch agency said that per capita emissions were 6.1 tons in China
in 2009, up from only 2.2 tons in 1990. Among the French, emissions were 6 tons
per person last year, said Jos Olivier, a senior scientist at the Dutch
agency....Per capita emissions in 15 nations of the European Union were 7.9 tons
in 2009, down from 9.1 tons in 1990, the study said. In the United States, the
figure was 17.2 tons in 2009, down from 19.5 tons in 1990."

The scientist accused in "climategate" has been cleared of all charges:
http://nyti.ms/bRZJha

Vinod Khosla argues that we should promote low-carbon fuels, not just
renewables: "Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) has proposed requiring electricity
providers to use a minimum percentage of energy from renewable sources. If this
standard were modified to allow low-carbon electricity from any source, not just
renewable, with carbon emissions that are 80 percent lower than coal, it could
get support from nuclear, natural gas and even coal advocates. Opening the
playing field like this would increase competition and drive down prices. This
would encourage coal with sequestration and nuclear technologies to accelerate
development to compete."

DC comics interlude: The best of Batman's Twitter account.

Domestic Policy

The NRA will score a vote to confirm Elena Kagan as a "key vote" against gun
rights: http://bit.ly/915lV1

Labor is promising to cause trouble for the South Korea free trade deal, reports
Ian Swanson: "The groups have a strong ally in Rep. Sandy Levin, the chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee. Levin is a Michigan Democrat put in charge
of trade by Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) before he became chairman. On
Saturday, he blasted the Korean deal for not addressing regulatory and tax
barriers that have led to one-way trade with South Korea and hurt the U.S.
industrial sector."

The SEC is investigating home health care firms for Medicare fraud:
http://bit.ly/cNqSpZ

Arizona police have received guidelines to avoid racial profiling, reports
Jonathan Cooper: "Police enforcing Arizona's toughest-in-the-nation immigration
law are allowed to consider if a person speaks poor English, looks nervous or is
traveling in an overcrowded vehicle. But top police officials issued a stern
warning to officers Thursday, telling them in a training video not to consider
race or ethnicity and emphasizing that 'the entire country is watching.'"

Business leadership is still far too male-dominant, writes Chrystia Freeland:
"Whenever a job is high-status, we define it as being male. How many would
picture a Wall Street 'titan' in a skirt? When I studied in what was still the
Soviet Union, almost all of the doctors and factory finance directors were
women. In a system where power was vested in Communist Party functionaries,
medicine and accounting were low-status professions -- or women's work. In the
West, of course, those were considered masculine jobs."

Wonkbook compiled with the help of Mike Shepard and Dylan Matthews.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 5, 2010 Thursday 10:47 AM EST

The Fix: GOP gets ready to pounce

BYLINE: Aaron Blake and Felicia Sonmez

LENGTH: 1752 words



HIGHLIGHT: 1. Don't look now, but social issues could be making a comeback this
year.


1. Don't look now, but social issues could be making a comeback this year.

A California judge on Wednesday struck down Proposition 8 -- the state's ban on
same-sex marriage. The decision came one week after another judge blocked key
aspects of Arizona's new immigration law.

In both cases, the judges are thwarting policies favored by social
conservatives, and their decisions have begun to stoke ideological tensions
across the country. Needless to say, Republicans see plenty to take advantage of
-- especially since majorities of voters support both the immigration law and
laws banning same-sex marriage.

One GOP pollster called it "the worst of both worlds" for Democrats, because the
decisions both rally the GOP base and divide the Democrats, who straddle the
issues.

"This makes it even more difficult for Democrats to control what's being talked
about over the next 90 or so days," the pollster said.

So does that mean Republicans will launch a social issue offensive? Hardly.

Six years ago, President Bush's reelection was largely credited to the turnout
of highly religious voters. Since then, though, the war in Iraq and the economy
have dominated, relegating gay marriage, abortion and illegal immigration to the
political backburner.

Even when immigration reform flared up in 2006, it had a very limited impact and
didn't do anything to stop the GOP from losing its majorities. Now that the
struggling economy appears to be a GOP asset in November, shifting the focus to
social issues risks taking the focus off the Republicans' bread and butter.

Republican strategists say the issues will be invaluable for fundraising and use
in isolated cases, but that their overall strategy will remain the same:
economy, jobs and spending.

While we should expect to see some illegal immigration chatter (see: the 14th
Amendment this week), gay marriage is unlikely to factor much into the equation,
said one strategist.

Said another: "They don't change the overall message of this election which is
jobs and the economy. That is where the primary focus will continue to be."

2. Voters are voting for the second time this week as Tennessee holds its
primary Thursday.

The big race to watch will be in the Republican gubernatorial primary, where
Knoxville Mayor Bill Haslam is favored over two more conservative competitors,
Rep. Zach Wamp and Lieutenant Gov. Ron Ramsey. The winner will face businessman
Mike McWherter (D), the son of a former governor, in the race to succeed
term-limited Gov. Phil Bredesen (D).

The Republican primary has gotten heated in its final days with Wamp suggesting
that states ought to secede if Washington doesn't change its ways and Ramsey
telling supporters at a town hall that Islam is a cult. Wamp also has invoked
religion in his campaign ads, including one in which he says that "we must
restore America to its Judeo-Christian heritage and our Constitution." Taxes and
gun rights have also been part of the mix.

Keep an eye on Knox County (Haslam's stronghold), Hamilton County (Wamp's) and
Sullivan County (Ramsey's) as the results roll in Thursday night for a sense of
how each candidate's holding up in his base.

There's plenty of action going on in House primaries Thursday night as well.

In the 8th district's open-seat race to succeed retiring Rep. John Tanner (D) --
which holds the dubious distinction of being the most expensive race this cycle
-- farmer and gospel singer Stephen Fincher, Shelby County Commissioner George
Flinn and physician Ron Kirkland are all competing for the GOP nod. Polling
shows the race is a competitive one, and if Fincher wins, national Republicans
will be able to count the victory as a major success for their recruiting
efforts this cycle. The Republican nominee will be a heavy favorite in the fall.

Open-seat races are also taking place in the 6th district -- where businesswoman
Lou Ann Zelenik and state Sens. Diane Black and Jim Tracy are the main rivals in
the Republican primary -- and in the 3rd district - where Club-for-Growth-backed
Robin Smith, a former chairman of the state Republican Party, is vying against
attorney Chuck Fleischmann and nine others for Wamp's heavily-Republican seat.

And in the majority-black 9th district, former Memphis Mayor Willie Herenton is
challenging Rep. Steve Cohen in a Democratic primary where race has become a
defining issue. (Herenton, who is black, has said that he enjoys more support
from African-American voters than Cohen, who is white; President Obama,
meanwhile, has endorsed Cohen in the race.)

Meanwhile, if you, like us, have been asking why these primaries are all
happening on a Thursday, we got our answer from the Division of Elections at the
Tennessee secretary of state's office: Apparently, going back at least as far as
the 1870s, the Volunteer State constitution has mandated that primaries be held
the first Thursday in August.

3. Just when you thought the Colorado Republican gubernatorial primary couldn't
get any weirder, two new twists have sent the race packing on a one-way trip to
bizarro world.

First, a Democratic-backed group has inserted itself in the primary, launching a
TV ad slamming gubernatorial candidate Scott McInnis for his involvement in a
plagiarism scandal.

Colorado Freedom Fund -- a group funded by the Democratic Governors Association,
the Public Education Committee teachers union and wealthy Colorado Democratic
donor Pat Stryker -- is running the $50,000 ad buy ahead of next Tuesday's
Republican gubernatorial primary.

Then, businessman Dan Maes, who is vying with McInnis for the GOP nod, told
supporters at a rally last week that the policies of Denver Mayor and
presumptive Democratic nominee John Hickenlooper are "converting Denver into a
United Nations community."

What policies, you ask? How about Hickenlooper's devious proposal to encourage
bicycle-riding in Denver?

Maes said that Hickenlooper's promotion of bike-sharing programs and other green
initiatives "aren't just warm, fuzzy ideas from the mayor. These are very
specific strategies that are dictated to us by this United Nations program that
mayors have signed on to."

A SurveyUSA poll released last weekend showed the under-funded Maes pulling even
with McInnis for the Republican nomination, with Maes taking 43 percent to
McInnis's 39 percent among likely primary voters. The poll also showed
Hickenlooper handily winning a three-way general election race against either
Maes or McInnis and former Rep. Tom "The Tank" Tancredo, who is running under
the banner of the American Constitution Party.

All of which spells bad news for Colorado Republicans -- and puts state
Republican Party Chairman Dick Wadhams in an unenviable position. (To weigh in
on what Wadhams should do, take our Daily Fix Poll.)

4. Texas Gov. Rick Perry (R) is renewing the call for his Democratic rival,
former Houston Mayor Bill White, to drop out of the race following an Associated
Press report that White played a larger role in a billing dispute related to a
company that he recommended for Hurricane Rita recovery efforts than he
initially stated.

"Because Bill White has failed to come clean with the people of Texas, I am
again calling upon him to drop out of the governor's race and to apologize to
the people of Houston and our state for his unethical actions and for
profiteering from a natural disaster while mayor of Houston," Perry said in a
statement.

Perry first called for White to drop out in June, after the Democrat released
his tax returns. At the time, Perry accused White of "profiting from Hurricane
Rita" because of his investment in a company, BTEC Turbine, that he had
recommended to aid the Houston-area Coastal Water Authority with relief efforts.
White insisted that he had "no interest" in BTEC at the time of the hurricane
and that "at no time did I benefit from BTEC's work on behalf of this
community."

But according to the Associated Press, White was closely involved in a billing
dispute between BTEC and the Coastal Water Authority related to BTEC's claims
that it wasn't being paid enough by the Authority. The dispute was eventually
settled in April 2006 and five months later, White was invited to invest $1
million in the company. He has since made a profit of more than $500,000 on the
investment.

White defended his actions late Wednesday, stating that he "called on dozens of
companies during the crisis of the hurricanes, and later made dozens of phone
calls to ensure those who'd been called on were paid for services provided. No
less, no more."

His camp also charged that Perry was "pushing old news in an attempt to distract
from his land deal scandal and the fact that he's on vacation in California
ignoring the $18 billion budget deficit." White has repeatedly hit Perry for
allegedly channeling taxpayer money to a businessman involved in a land deal
from which Perry made a significant profit.

While it's unclear just how intense the new scrutiny on White will be, the new
report certainly blunts the momentum he has been claiming of late in the
campaign.

5. West Virginia state Sen. Mike Oliverio (D) has taken a double-digit lead for
the open seat held by outgoing Rep. Alan Mollohan (D), according to a poll
conducted for Oliverio's campaign.

The  Hamilton Campaigns survey shows Oliverio leading former state Del. David
McKinley (R) 52 percent to 36 percent.

Republicans have made the race one of their top targets this year, but
Oliverio's win over Mollohan in a primary appears to have helped the Democratic
cause. With Democrats struggling to find favorable polling data in lots of
districts targeted by Republicans, Oliverio's poll is a notable exception.

At the same time, the full poll results show the race could be close.

On the generic ballot, a Republican candidate leads the race 42 percent to 41
percent, and President Obama's approval in the district is just 29 percent.

Oliverio also appears to be benefiting from much higher name recognition. Only
21 percent of voters didn't know him well enough to rate his favorability, while
53 percent couldn't rate McKinley's. That means McKinley has lots more room to
grow.

But the district, like much of West Virginia, shows itself willing to vote for a
Democrat for Congress; Gov. Joe Manchin (D) leads the Senate race over
Republican businessman John Raese 62 percent to 30 percent in the district.

Being over 50 percent is definitely a good sign for Oliverio, and his
favorable-to-unfavorable rating of 58 percent to 19 percent is encouraging. The
question is how much the national Democratic Party drags him down.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 12, 2010 Thursday 3:56 PM EST

McDonnell requests immigration powers

BYLINE: Anita Kumar

LENGTH: 420 words



HIGHLIGHT: Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell (R) sent a letter this week officially
asking U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to allow state
troopers to act as immigration and customs agents. Read the letter.


Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell (R) sent a letter this week officially asking U.S.
Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to allow state troopers to act
as immigration and customs agents. Read the letter.

McDonnell has spent months trying to reach an agreement with the federal
government behind the scenes to train and deputize troopers to make legal status
checks and refer individuals for deportation. The superintendent of the Virginia
State Police, Virginia secretary of public safety and McDonnell's chief of staff
have met with federal officials.

"A partnership of this nature will serve to improve public safety, while
providing more resources to an underfunded and understaffed federal agency in
the fight against criminal illegal immigration,'' McDonnell said. "The federal
government is clearly responsible for border security and immigration law
enforcement in this country. However, section 287g of the amended Immigration
and Nationality Act wisely permits state and local assistance in that
enforcement. Virginians want to see our laws enforced and our communities kept
safe and secure."

McDonnell, a former state attorney general, helped several localities, including
Prince William County, enter into similar agreements. He also repeatedly pressed
former governor Tim Kaine (D) to ask the Bush administration to enter into
agreement with Virginia, but Kaine refused.

The Obama administration has declined to issue the so-called 287g agreements to
some states in the past. "The Obama administration has a very different view
from the Bush administration,'' McDonnell said last week.

Richard Rocha, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, has
said he could not comment on pending applications.

Twenty-six states, including Maryland and Arizona, and eight localities in
Virginia, including Herndon and Prince William and Loudoun counties, have the
so-called 287 (g) status that deputizes local law enforcement.

On behalf of Prince William's police department and sheriff's department, Corey
A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Board of County Supervisors, sought and
received 287g status in 2007 and 2008. Since July 2007, officers' work has
helped lead to the deportations of nearly 3,000 people.

In recent weeks, the issue of illegal immigration has returned to the forefront
in Virginia. Opponents of illegal immigration have felt emboldened because
Arizona legislators passed a tough new law.

The Virginia State Police has 1,800 sworn agents. It's unclear how man would be
deputized.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2010 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 432 words

ARIZONA

Thousands protest county sheriff

An estimated 10,000  immigrant-rights advocates marched in front of a county
jail in Phoenix Saturday in a protest that was aimed at Maricopa County Sheriff
Joe Arpaio's immigration efforts and was marked by a clash between a small group
of protesters and police officers.

Organizers say the protest was meant to show officials in Washington that
Arpaio, who has been under investigation by the Justice Department for alleged
discrimination and unconstitutional searches, should not be permitted to handle
immigration enforcement.

Five protesters were arrested. Arpaio said he wasn't bothered by the protesters,
and said they should direct their frustrations at Congress because it has the
power to change America's immigration laws.

-- Associated Press

WHITE HOUSE

Obama to speak at D.C. church

President Obama will deliver remarks about Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Sunday
morning when he appears at a church in the District for the second time since he
was inaugurated and the third since his election.

As president-elect, Obama and his family attended services once at Nineteenth
Street Baptist Church, a Northwest Washington institution that is one of the
oldest historically black churches in the District. They attended Easter
services at the historic St. John's Episcopal Church near the White House.

The White House did not disclose the name of the church Obama will attend
Sunday.

-- Hamil R. Harris

 FLORIDA

NASA slashes price on shuttles for sale

 Here's a recession bargain: the space shuttle. NASA has slashed the price of
the 1970s-era spaceships from $42 million to $28.8 million apiece.

The shuttles are for sale once they quit flying, supposedly this fall. When NASA
put out the call to museums, schools and others in December 2008, seeking
buyers, about 20 expressed interest. NASA spokesman Mike Curie expects more
interest, what with the discount.

The space shuttle main engines are now free. NASA advertised them for $400,000
to $800,000 each in December 2008, but no one expressed interest. So now the
engines are available, along with other shuttle artifacts, for the cost of
transportation and handling.

-- Associated Press

Evacuation at JFK airport: A terminal at John F. Kennedy International Airport
in New York was evacuated and flghts were delayed Saturday after someone opened
a door to a secure area and set off an alarm, officials said. The security
breach apparently involved someone who left a first-class American Airlines
lounge that was supposed to be used only by airport workers and walked through.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Reed Saxon/associate Press; NASA is selling older spaceships,
such as the shuttle Discovery, once they are retired from service.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 17, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Born in Japan, but ordered out;
Immigration laws more strictly enforced as economy falters

BYLINE: Blaine Harden

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 1129 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


Fida Khan, a gangly 14-year-old, told the court that immigration authorities
should not deport him and his family merely because his foreign-born parents
lacked proper visas when they came to Japan more than 20 years ago.

During the past two decades, his Pakistani father and Filipino mother have held
steady jobs, raised children, paid taxes and have never been in trouble with the
law.

"I have the right to do my best to become a person who can contribute to this
society," Fida told a Tokyo district court in Japanese, the only language he
speaks.

But the court ruled last year that Fida has no right to stay in the country
where he was born. Unless a higher court or the Minister of Justice intervenes,
a deportation order will soon split the Khan family, sending the father, Waqar
Hassan Khan, back to Pakistan, while dispatching Fida and his sister Fatima, 7,
to the Philippines with their mother, Jennette.

Aggressive enforcement of Japanese immigration laws has increased in recent
years as the country's economy has floundered and the need for cheap foreign
labor has fallen.

Nationality in Japan is based on blood and parentage, not place of birth. This
island nation was closed to the outside world until the 1850s, when U.S.
warships forced it to open up to trade. Wariness of foreigners remains a potent
political force, one that politicians dare not ignore, especially when the
economy is weak.

As a result, the number of illegal immigrants has been slashed, often by
deportation, from 300,000 in 1995 to just 130,000, a minuscule number in
comparison to other rich countries. The United States, whose population is  2
1/2  times that of Japan's, has about 90 times as many illegal immigrants (11.6
million).

Among highly developed countries, Japan also ranks near the bottom in the
percentage of legal foreign residents. Just 1.7 percent are foreign or
foreign-born, compared with about 12 percent in the United States. Japan held a
pivotal election last year and voters tossed out a party that had ruled for
nearly 50 years. But the winner, the Democratic Party of Japan, has so far done
nothing to alter immigration policy.

That policy, in a country running low on working-age people, is helping to push
Japan off a demographic cliff. It already has fewer children and more elderly as
a percentage of its population than any country in recorded history. If trends
continue, the population of 127 million will shrink by a third in 50 years and
by two-thirds in a century. By 2060, Japan will have two retirees for every
three workers -- a ratio that will weaken and perhaps wreck pension and
health-care systems.

These dismal numbers upset Masaki Tsuchiya, who manages a Tokyo welding company
that for seven years has employed Waqar Khan.

"If Khan is deported, it will not be possible to find anyone like him, as many
Japanese workers have lost their hungriness," said Tsuchiya, who has urged
Japanese immigration officials to rescind the deportation order for the Khan
family. "When the Japanese population is declining, I believe our society has to
think more seriously about immigration."

At the Ministry of Justice, immigration officials say they are simply carrying
out rules politicians make. The rules, though, are not particularly precise.
They grant wide leeway to bureaucrats to use their own discretion in deciding
who stays and who gets deported. Last year, immigration officials granted
"special permits" to 8,500 undocumented foreigners, with about 65 percent of
them going to those who had married a Japanese citizen.

Exercising their discretion under the law, immigration authorities last year
offered Noriko Calderon, 13, the wrenching choice of living with her parents or
living in her homeland. The girl, who was born and educated in the Tokyo
suburbs, could stay in Japan, the government ruled. But she had to say goodbye
to her Filipino mother and father, who were deported after living illegally in
Japan for 16 years. Following tearful goodbyes at a Tokyo airport, Noriko
remained in Japan with an aunt.

Japan's growing need for working-age immigrants has not gone unnoticed by senior
leaders in government and business. Slightly relaxed rules have admitted skilled
professionals and guest workers. The number of legal foreign residents reached
an all-time high of 2.2 million at the end of 2008, with Chinese accounting for
the largest group, followed by Koreans, Brazilians (mostly of Japanese descent)
and Filipinos.

Still, experts say these numbers are far too low to head off significant
economic contraction. A group of 80 politicians said last year that the country
needs 10 million immigrants by 2050. Japan's largest business federation called
for 15 million, saying: "We cannot wait any longer to aggressively welcome
necessary personnel."

Yet the treatment of foreign workers already in Japan is unpredictable. The
government opened service centers last year to help foreign workers who lost
their jobs to recession. For the first time, it offered them free language
training, along with classes on social integration. As that program got
underway, however, the government began giving money -- about $12,000 for a
family of four -- to foreign workers, if they agreed to go home immediately and
never come back to work.

The Khan family's troubles began two years, when a policeman nabbed Waqar Khan
on his way home from work. He was detained for nine months. Police in Japan
often stop foreign-looking people on the street and ask for residency documents.

The letter of the law was clearly against Khan and his wife. He had overstayed a
15-day tourist visa by 20 years. She came into the country on a forged passport.

But they have refused to sign deportation documents, arguing that although their
papers are bad, their behavior as foreigners has been exemplary. Under Japanese
law, foreigners are eligible to become naturalized citizens if they have lived
in the country for more than five years, have good behavior and are
self-sufficient.

The Khans also argue that their children, who regard themselves as Japanese, are
assets for Japan. "It is a bit weird that the country needs children, but it is
saying to us, go away," Khan said.

The family's lawyer, Gen'ichi Yamaguchi, has tried -- and so far failed -- to
convince immigration officials and judges that the Khans are just the sort of
hardworking, Japanese-speaking immigrants that the country should embrace for
the sake of its own future.

"During the bubble years, the number of illegal workers increased a lot and the
police looked the other way," Yamaguchi said. "Japan has always looked at
immigrants as cheap but disposable labor."

An appeals court is scheduled to rule on the Khan case in the first week of
February.

Special correspondent Akiko Yamamoto contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Blaine Harden/the Washington Post; Fida Khan, 14, faces
deportation from Japan, although he was born there and speaks only Japanese.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Protesters demand action on immigration reform;
D.C. police divert traffic, make no arrests after activists block streets

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 449 words


About 150 activists gathered Tuesday in front of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement headquarters to deliver a "State of the Union" address that
protested what they consider a lack of progress on immigration reform.

Holding signs and loudspeakers at a noon rally, the group of community
organizers, advocates and faith leaders chanted "Si, se puede" ("Yes, we can")
before about 20 of them joined hands across 12th Street SW near Maryland Avenue,
blocking traffic. They sat on the road and waited for police to bring out their
handcuffs.

"We want to bring attention to the lack of movement on immigration reform," said
Gustavo Torres, executive director of CASA de Maryland, one of the organizing
groups.

Citing President Obama's promises to pursue immigration reform in the first year
of his administration, he said: "We were very excited, because the great
majority of the Latino community said: 'Finally, we have a president who looks
like us, and he's going to fight for us.' . . .

"We want to let him know that if there's no reforms, he's not going to be
reelected. The Latino community and the immigrant community are not going to
believe him."

The protest did not cause as much disruption as organizers had hoped. The police
stood to the side, chatting, their cars parked on 12th Street. Traffic had been
redirected to avoid the intersection.

"We hear they're going to arrest us," Torres said.

By 1 p.m., it became clear that they would not.

Organizers decided to move two blocks north, to the more heavily traveled
Independence Avenue, where blocking the street might be taken more seriously.
But no sooner had the human chain occupied the new location than traffic was
redirected again. Department of Agriculture employees stood behind windows to
watch the protesters beat on plastic paint buckets and march in a tight circle.

The protesters called on the Obama administration to immediately suspend
deportations of immigrants with family members who are U.S. citizens and to pass
the comprehensive immigration reform that they said Obama promised during his
campaign.

Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, said the
Obama administration is "committed to confronting this problem in practical,
effective ways, using the current tools at our disposal, while we work with
Congress to enact comprehensive reform."

Hugo Rodas, 40, a Gainesboro resident from Guatemala, said he has had trouble
finding construction work because he has no papers. "I'm here to ask for work,"
he said. "I want a better life."

About 2 p.m., the police picked up the seated protesters one by one and led them
to the sidewalk, according to one activist, who added that no one was arrested.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 1, 2010 Monday
                                Regional Edition

With chances dim, advocates push for immigration bill;
FRUSTRATION WITH OBAMA Little will in Congress seen for action soon

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 912 words


As President Obama vows to refocus Democrats' attention on jobs and the economy,
advocates for overhauling the nation's immigration laws say they are still
gearing up for a battle in the Senate in coming weeks, despite fading hopes for
victory.

Washington's drawn-out health-care debate badly damaged prospects for an
immigration bill this winter. It ate  up weeks of the Senate's time, sapped
progressive lawmakers' energy and, most recently, stoked  a populist backlash
that cost Democrats the  seat of the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (Mass.),  the
chamber's most prominent champion of liberal health-care and immigration
policies.

With time running out before lawmakers want to start focusing on the November
elections, "immigration is deader than a doornail," one veteran Senate lobbyist
put it. Advocates' frustration peaked last  week when Obama devoted  a single
sentence in his 71-minute State of the Union address to a topic he ranked as a
top legislative priority last summer, after health care and an energy bill.

"We should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration system," Obama
said, offering no specific remedy or timing, ". . . and ensure that everyone who
plays by the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our nation."

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who has introduced a House bill favored by
immigrant groups, said there was "disillusionment" among advocates across the
country.

"There's almost universal consensus that the president -- it was too little,"
Gutierrez said, noting that by contrast, Obama pledged  in the speech to repeal
the military's ban on service by openly gay people this year. "He was very weak
on immigration, lackadaisical," Gutierrez added.

"I had very low expectations, but he [the president] surprised even me with how
little he said," added Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice. He
and other advocates are pushing to legalize many of an estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants, strengthen enforcement of immigration laws and provide a
mechanism to control the  flow of immigrant workers.

Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) and Sen. Charles E.  Schumer
(D-N.Y.), who has taken the lead in drafting a Senate bill, rushed to reassure
immigrant advocates and Latino groups that they were still working with Sen.
Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) to find Republican backers for a bipartisan bill,
while shying away from setting a timetable.

"It's something we're committed to do, and we'll do it as soon as we can," Reid
told reporters.

A White House official said Obama's mention of the issue implicitly made it part
of his agenda for the year: "What he said in the speech was that we should move
the process and legislation forward this year."

Nevertheless, backers say they will have to thread a needle to move a bill to
the Senate floor by a springtime deadline, after which they fear midterm
election politics will take hold.

Several stakeholders said a breakthrough is possible only if Schumer strikes a
deal with at least  two Republican cosponsors, Democrats hold firm and  Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.)  wants a bipartisan accomplishment to
show voters this fall.

Opponents of increased immigration say they see little political will in
Congress to help illegal immigrants at a time when unemployment is near 10
percent.

"The chances that potentially  vulnerable congressmen and senators will want to
vote on legalizing illegal aliens is now zero," said Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks reduced immigration.

In a  poll last month by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press, the
public rated the importance of immigration near the bottom of a list of issues.

Advocates say that, if the health-care debate is resolved quickly, an
immigration bill could pass, putting the chance of success at 10 to 15 percent.
Because the Senate tried and failed to pass similar legislation in 2006 and
2007, there are fewer details to hammer out and less guesswork over how senators
might vote. Immigration may even benefit politically if health-care reform
collapses, they said, because both parties may want to show voters they are
serious about tackling a tough, long-festering domestic problem.

"They're going to have to show an accomplishment," said Angela M. Kelley, an
immigration policy analyst at the Center for American Progress, a liberal think
tank. "There's not many branches left to hang from, and I think [immigration] is
going to become low-hanging fruit."

Supporters said  many Republicans remain uneasy that the party's support from
Hispanics is eroding. Also, immigration advocates have retooled their message
during the recession, saying a legalization program could lead to $1.5 trillion
in economic growth over a decade, add billions in tax revenue as workers move
into the open economy, and protect jobs and wages by stopping illegal hiring.

"We're not ready to stick a fork in it," Sharry said. "We think we still have a
long shot, but a decent shot."

Still, the window of opportunity is growing narrow, as the Senate is also
preparing a jobs bill and financial regulations package.

Don Stewart, spokesman for McConnell, said it is  too soon to judge an
immigration bill that has not been introduced. Still, Stewart noted of
Democrats, "It hasn't been on the top of their talking points, and our side's
first question is: 'How does this create jobs?' "

Polling analyst Jennifer Agiesta contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ross Franklin/associated Press; Protesters in Phoenix
demonstrated in mid-January against Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio and his
immigration enforcement.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant rights leaders critical of Democrats;
Growing disillusion over slow legalization bill, record deportations

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman and Spencer S. Hsu

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 591 words


Leaders of nearly a dozen grass-roots immigrant rights groups excoriated
President Obama and congressional Democrats on Monday, accusing them of moving
too slowly to legalize the status of undocumented immigrants and citing a record
number of deportations in 2009.

"Our community is angry. Our members feel betrayed," said Brent Wilkes,
executive director of the League of United Latin American Citizens. "We never
believed in our wildest dreams that President Obama would have a record like
this."

The critique, among the harshest to date from Obama's erstwhile supporters,
comes as the president is struggling to deliver on a campaign promise to
overhaul the nation's immigration laws and with time running out for legislative
action before this fall's midterm elections.

Advocates have promised to bring tens of thousands of demonstrators to
Washington for a March 21 protest and to punish Democrats at the polls in
November if an immigration bill is not brought to a vote.

"No legalization. No reelection," Emma Lozano, executive director of the
Chicago-based Centro Sin Fronteras, told reporters.

White House officials said the president will be meeting soon with Sens. Charles
E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) to discuss the bipartisan
immigration bill. The president's "commitment to fixing our broken immigration
system remains unwavering," said Nicholas Shapiro, a White House spokesman.

Immigration advocates in Washington and lobbyists working with the two senators
said privately that the effort amounts to political damage control.

"We just don't see how this can happen in 2010. The best we can do is to get an
outline [of a bill] out and have a couple of hearings," said one lobbyist,
speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the ongoing talks. "This is a
way for everyone to say, 'We are doing something, and we are committed to
getting something through Congress after the election.' "

That may not be enough, said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum.

"A legislative show is not going to be acceptable," he said. "The necessity here
is a bipartisan piece of legislation that gets to the Senate floor, and that
will be the marker that immigrant voters and others will use in November 2010
and November 2012 and beyond."

In February, the immigration advocacy group America's Voice reported that
Hispanic voters could prove decisive this fall in 40 gubernatorial, Senate and
House races. The list includes eight Senate seats, including the one held by
Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), as well as those in California and New
York.

The tough line at Monday's news conference taken by the grass-roots groups --
which tend to work directly with immigrants in local communities -- stands in
contrast to public statements by the main national immigrant organizations
lobbying the White House and Congress. Those groups have refrained from
criticizing the president so directly.

The outcry, however, reflects the growing disillusionment on the ground in
Latino and immigrant communities.

"People are suffering. Millions and millions of people cannot drive, cannot go
to school, live in fear," said Dae Joong Yoon, the executive director of the
Korean Resource Center in Los Angeles. "In 2008 many of our community members
voted for change. . . . We've been waiting, waiting, waiting. But since then our
president, our Congress members, have been in a deep sleep. So now we're saying,
'We can't take it anymore! Wake up! Do something!' "

Staff writer Scott Wilson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

DIGEST

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 291 words


IMMIGRATION

Senators outline plan to overhaul system

 Sens. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) outlined a new
push in Congress to overhaul immigration laws Thursday, describing a plan to
require U.S. citizens and legal immigrants to obtain a Social Security card
linked to their fingerprints or other biometric identifiers and to create a
system to bring in temporary workers as the economy demands.

In a statement, President Obama urged Congress "to act at the earliest possible
opportunity," adding, "I . . . pledge to do everything in my power to forge a
bipartisan consensus on this important issue so we can continue to move forward
on comprehensive immigration reform."

Graham and Schumer, in a Washington Post op-ed article, did not say when they
will introduce a bill.

-- Spencer S. Hsu

Subpoenas issued in Ensign inquiry: A federal grand jury has issued subpoenas to
a GOP campaign committee and companies in Nevada in an investigation of Sen.
John Ensign (R-Nev.), who has been under scrutiny for his efforts to find
lobbying work for the husband of his former mistress. One subpoena went to the
National Republican Senatorial Committee, which Ensign chaired, committee
spokesman Brian Walsh said. Last June, Ensign acknowledged an extramarital
affair with Cynthia Hampton. He helped her husband, Douglas Hampton, gain
employment with a lobbying firm.

Sanfords' divorce final: A judge has finalized South Carolina Gov. Mark
Sanford's divorce from his wife, Jenny, ending their 20-year marriage. Court
records show that Family Court Judge Jocelyn Cate issued her ruling Thursday,
less than three weeks after the first lady appeared, asking to end the marriage
because of her husband's adultery.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant groups reach out to blacks;
Organizers of march try coalition building on jobs, other issues

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 884 words


Organizers of a march for immigrants' rights in Washington on Sunday are
reaching out to African Americans, hoping to bring the two communities together
around an issue that has been a wedge between them.

The campaign includes ads for the march on urban radio stations along the East
Coast, asking for listeners to lend their support. "Everyone has been hurt by
the economy, especially African Americans and immigrants. The truth is, together
you can demand real change," the ads state.

The effort is part of a broader strategy among Hispanic, black and Asian civil
rights groups to unite on areas of common interest and to get Congress and the
Obama administration to enact major legislation on jobs and immigration -- even
as the nation's political leaders are focused on health care.

"It is a reflection of a much deeper connection between African American
constituencies and immigrant constituencies," said Deepak Bhargava, executive
director of the Center for Community Change, which is helping to plan the march.
"In the last year, there's been a ton of work done on the ground where
immigrants and African Americans have worked together on a range of issues, from
the jobs crisis to the foreclosure crisis."

The coalition-building approach is a shift for immigrant rights groups, which
held similar marches in 2006 and 2007. Then, disparate Hispanic groups spurred a
large protest movement to push for citizenship for the nation's 11 million
illegal immigrants, relying little on organizations outside the community.

The idea of a racial coalition aims to push an overhaul of immigration law as an
"American issue, not just an immigrant issue," said Jorge-Mario Cabrera, a
spokesman for the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. "Up
until at least two years ago, the discussion was really being had amongst
ourselves."

Immigration activists took flak, even from supporters, after thousands marched
on the Mall to demand U.S. citizenship while carrying flags from their countries
of origin. This time, organizers want to send a different signal, tying their
pursuit of a wholesale overhaul of immigration law to the civil rights movement
of the 1960s.

"The immigrant community really holds a great deal of respect and admiration for
the work that the African American community has done in the civil rights
movement, and that movement is an inspiration for the immigrant rights
movement," said Clarissa Martinez De Castro, director of the National Council of
La Raza's immigration campaign.

Cabrera said his group spent October and November going to Sunday services at
black churches across Los Angeles, sharing the stories of illegal immigrants,
and they've begun sending news releases to African American newspapers and radio
shows in California.

"We don't get a lot of media requests from them, but we know that they are
listening, and we know that they are getting our information," Cabrera said. "We
are pushing against the conversation that we are taking their jobs."

But the issue of job competition remains, said Vernon Briggs, a professor
emeritus of industrial and labor relations at Cornell University who favors low
immigration rates.

"What we have got here is people using immigration as a political issue to unite
certain segments of the population, regardless of the economic and labor market
impact," Briggs said. "In my view, African American workers are the most
adversely affected of all groups, but many legal immigrants in the Hispanic
community are also severely impacted because they are disproportionately in the
low-skilled labor market where the illegal immigrants compete."

Leaders of black civil rights groups push back at that idea. NAACP President
Benjamin Jealous and National Urban League President Marc Morial will speak at
the rally Sunday in support of providing illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship.

"This new generation of leaders recognize the need to build stronger
coalitions," Morial said. "It is very important that the nation's communities of
color do not simply see themselves as groups competing for crumbs."

Jealous said he plans to talk Sunday about ways that overhauling immigration law
will help all workers. "There is a need for a floor for how all workers are
treated," he said. "There is a need to ensure that nobody in this country can be
forced to work in near-slavery-like conditions. So much of the black experience
has been about us fighting over centuries to be part of this country, and for
Latinos it's a similar story."

Last year, La Raza and the NAACP launched their first joint ad campaign in
support of overhauling the health-care system. The Urban League joined with La
Raza and the National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development
in a program to stem home foreclosures in minority communities.

A similar level of cooperation is happening in North Carolina, where the state
NAACP and the immigration rights group El Pueblo have formed an alliance in
Raleigh. "We found that the same forces that fight changing the laws to help
immigrants also fight civil rights, they also fight health-care reform, they
also fight educational reform," said the Rev. William Barber, president of the
North Carolina NAACP.

Tony Asion, executive director at El Pueblo, put it this way: "If we don't stick
together, then we both lose."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Rob Carr/associated Press; Saul Linares rests at a
Baltimore church Thursday, after walking six days from Hempstead, N.Y., en route
to Sunday's march in Washington.
IMAGE; Linares, a factory worker, will join other activists marching to the
Mall, calling for immigration reform.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Going left, right for immigration reform;
Leader of Hispanic evangelicals seeks support from all sides

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1363 words


The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez wants immigration reform, and believes building
bridges across political divides is how to win it.

As president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, he has
made himself at home with secular progressives and right-wing evangelicals, with
liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans.

Rodriguez, 40, describes the 16 million Latino evangelicals he represents as a
mix of "Billy Graham and Martin Luther King Jr. -- with a little salsa tossed
in." He sees himself that way, too.

Like most Latino evangelicals, his political alliances are not cemented. As he
and several thousand others from his group prepare to descend on Washington
Sunday, his message is this: Stand in the way of an overhaul of immigration
policy and we will oppose you -- Democrat or Republican. Because the  way to
win, Samuels believes, is to press when pressing is necessary.

The marchers, who will include evangelicals arriving in church vans and buses
from, by Rodriguez's count, 17 states, will demand that President Obama keep his
campaign promise to make it possible for many of the nation's estimated 12
million illegal immigrants to become citizens. They are to meet on the National
Mall, hold an interfaith prayer service with 5,000 religious leaders, and
protest alongside Hispanic Catholics and a diverse group of what organizers say
will be tens of thousands of immigration activists from across the country.

"If not the Obama administration, with a Democratic Congress, then who?"
Rodriguez asked. "If not now -- then when?"

Hispanics are the fastest-growing part of the U.S. population; evangelicals are
the fastest-growing part of the Hispanic religious community. And Rodriguez,
head of the NHCLC for a decade, has been watching those two trends as they merge
to form a potent swing vote. The biggest test of the community's power comes
now, Rodriguez says, as they press Obama and Congress to overhaul immigration
law during the next few months.

On the political spectrum, he places himself somewhere between white
evangelicals, two-thirds of whom vote Republican, and black churchgoers,
two-thirds of whom vote Democratic.

"The brown comes along and says, 'Why can't we have both?' " Rodriguez said. He
strongly opposes same-sex marriage and abortion, and he cares about reducing
poverty and improving the education and justice systems.

It is from that central position that Hispanic voters, and more precisely
Hispanic evangelicals such as himself, have become one of the factions that help
sway critical elections. In 1996, about 66 percent of Latino Protestants voted
for Bill Clinton. In 2004, 63 percent went for George W. Bush. In 2008, Obama
won 57 percent of their support.

Bipartisan outreach

For the past decade, Rodriguez has made connections across political lines by
seeking common ground. It began when Bush's team invited him to the White House
and later asked him to join Karl Rove's weekly strategy calls. Then Rodriguez
started getting calls from congressional leaders, both Republicans and
Democrats. Last year, he prayed for Obama at a private service along with Bishop
T.D. Jakes and mega-church pastor Joel Hunter.

"No one knows how to label me," Rodriguez said with a smile.

In 2000, he took over a small group of pastors and built one of the country's
largest associations of Latino evangelicals, with 25,434 churches.

About 10 million Latinos voted in the 2008 presidential election, and
evangelicals are considered to make up about one-third of the Hispanic vote. But
their political impact is larger than their numbers, said Gaston Espinosa, a
professor of religious studies at Claremont McKenna College and author of
"Religion, Race, and the American Presidency" and several books about Latino
Protestants.

His research also found that as many as 600,000 Latinos convert to
evangelicalism every year, and Hispanic evangelicals tend to vote at higher
rates than Hispanic Catholics. They are also heavily concentrated in swing
states, such as Colorado, Florida and New Mexico.

Rodriguez will now find out whether the community's clout and his
hold-hands-with-everyone-approach help advance the contentious issue of
overhauling immigration law. He is not naive about all those friendships he has
made.

"I've been with people that I pray with, who are some of my greatest friends on
the right, who'll say they want to deport 12 million people," Rodriguez said.
"Or they'll say -- and this is how they'll say it -- 'Why doesn't your people
learn English? If they can't, they need to go.' "

He shook his head.

He has no illusions on the other side either, and some on that side, in turn,
view him with suspicion. Bruce Wilson, a founder of an online publication
opposed to the religious right, calls Rodriguez proof that the "new face of the
politicized Christian conservative movement is not exclusively associated with
the Republican Party."

"It's an extremely cynical approach," Wilson said.  "Rodriguez wants to play
both sides."

The way Rodriguez sees it, he might be working both the right and the left, but
he sees no conflict. "Sometimes I do feel a little schizophrenic," he said. "But
I let both sides know what I'm doing. I operate in integrity."

Still, navigating the partisan divide, especially in Washington, has its risks.

Take the call Rodriguez received last year from the office of Sen. Patrick J.
Leahy (D-Vt.), asking that he testify in support of Sonia Sotomayor's Supreme
Court nomination. Proud of the racial barrier she would break, Rodriguez's
conference of churches had issued a statement backing the nomination -- with a
caveat over abortion policy.

But word got out that Rodriguez planned to testify before Leahy's panel. Calls
came in from "friends on the right" who said they would refuse to back
immigration reform if he testified. "They were bartering with me," Rodriguez
said.

In the political calculus, it was clear that Sotomayor would be confirmed with
or without Rodriguez's support. He turned down the invitation to testify, but
sent for the record a statement supporting Sotomayor.

Losing the burgeoning support of white evangelicals for immigration reform was a
bigger risk, Rodriguez decided.

A balancing act

Last month, Rodriguez was speaking to the Oak Initiative, led by pastor and
televangelist Rick Joyner, who has built a large ministry in Fort Mill, S.C.
Rodriguez, who is on Oak's board, describes it as "the Christian tea party
without all the anger." For the most part, the conference attendees, who came
from around the country, are fans of Fox News commentator Glenn Beck and fear
that big government is bankrupting the nation.

Rodriguez worried that they might be vulnerable to what he has called the
"xenophobia and anti-Latino rhetoric" of some on the right.

"It's 2010. The old modus operandi will not succeed. It's going to take white,
black, brown to win elections," he told them.

As evidence, he talked about the support evangelicals across racial lines were
able to build for Proposition 8 in California, which banned same-sex marriage in
the state. After the speech, the 150 activists in South Carolina took a straw
poll; each one supported making it possible for illegal immigrants to become
citizens.

Rodriguez counted it a small victory.

There have been larger ones. After what he described as a few years of lobbying,
the National Evangelical Association's board voted in October to support an
immigration overhaul.

"Immigrants are a part of who we are, and we see the question through the lens
of people we know and care about," said Galen Carey, the group's D.C.-based
government affairs director. "It's not just an abstraction."

Rodriguez knows the chances for change this year are slim amid the debate over
health-care and economic recovery efforts. For now, he continues to push
right-wing evangelicals to support the policy. If the makeup of Congress changes
after November's midterm elections, he thinks Latino evangelicals could persuade
Republicans to get behind the issue.

To skeptics, Rodriguez points to the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act,
the last major overhaul of immigration law to grant citizenship to illegal
immigrants.

"Ronald Reagan supported it," Rodriguez said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Susan Biddle/the Washington Post; "No one knows how to label
me," said the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, left, shown at the recent Conservative
Political Action Conference.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Caught up in hope, but snared in a raid;
Rally for immigration reform falls under shadow of arrests

BYLINE: David Montgomery

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 2309 words


In the VIP section behind the big stage with a majestic view of the U.S.
Capitol, Esvin Blanco, Oved Vigil and Edwin Mazariegos showed the ankle
bracelets they must wear beneath their baggy jeans so U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement can keep track of them before they face possible deportation
in coming weeks.

Onstage a few yards away, Carlos Luna wore an American flag as a cape in support
of his brother, Mauricio, caught in the same series of raids 11 days ago. And
Cesar Guanoquiza took the microphone to make his public speaking debut, in honor
of a nephew, a brother and a cousin who were detained.

"We are not criminals," Guanoquiza declared. "We are workers here to push this
country forward!"

Last week, the detainees had been behind bars in Maryland on suspicion of
immigrating illegally to this country. But on Sunday afternoon during the March
for America, they were hailed by cheering thousands on the Mall as the human
face of the need for immigration reform.

There is, of course, another view.

"I understand why they use people like this as props," said Mark Krikorian,
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, as word spread before
the march that newly released detainees would be featured in the program.

"We've made immigration policy for too long on these wrenching anecdotes," said
Krikorian, who favors tighter restrictions on immigration.

Victim, criminal, hard-working breadwinner -- the illegal immigrant is the
ambiguous symbol at the heart of the debate. And raids, in which immigration
agents burst into workplaces and arrest suspected illegal immigrants, are the
point at which the debate ceases to be abstract. Lines are drawn, sympathy must
take sides.

The recent raids at two popular Maryland restaurants and other locations have
created human and economic ripple effects that have washed over immigrant and
American families from the Washington region to Central and South America. The
implications even reached the Obama administration, where officials scrambled to
explain the timing of the actions taking place on the home turf of
pro-immigration activists, who were in the midst of planning the march.

One of the themes they had settled upon: "Stop the raids."

The three immigrants wearing ankle bracelets couldn't stay for the whole march.
The bracelets' batteries were running low. If they didn't recharge them,
immigration agents would be after them again.

The first time had been enough.

Trouble at the door

Gustavo Torres's cellphone was stacking up with urgent text messages, but he
couldn't check them because he was in the Roosevelt Room of the White House,
meeting President Obama.

It was just after midday, Thursday, March 11, and it seemed like an auspicious
moment for Torres, executive director of CASA of Maryland, and a dozen other
immigrant-rights leaders granted the 75-minute presidential audience. The
president reaffirmed his commitment to reforming the broken immigration system.
And the advocates looked forward to flexing the movement's grass-roots muscles
during the upcoming march on the Mall.

Torres's job in the meeting was to raise the subject of workplace raids, which
he believes sweep up people whose only crime was crossing the border in search
of work. The Obama administration has significantly reduced the number of
workplace raids, but most immigrants removed through all enforcement measures
continue to be non-criminals.

Focus on people who've committed crimes, Torres urged the president, according
to participants. Obama replied that he must enforce existing law, but he
directed Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to meet with the
leaders to discuss ways to lessen the impact on hardworking immigrants.

Torres left the White House feeling optimistic. Then he checked his phone. His
top organizer had sent a text message.

"Dealing with raid," the organizer said. "YOU NEED TO CALL ME NOW."

Just a couple of hours earlier, about 10:45 a.m., a kitchen worker at Timbuktu
Restaurant in Hanover was going to a refrigerator to get some potatoes when he
saw agents coming in a rear door. He ran into the main part of the kitchen.
"Immigration!" he warned his co-workers.

Police vans, unmarked SUVs and squad cars had wheeled into the driveways and
parking lots of two restaurants, an office and several residences in Anne
Arundel and Baltimore counties. Dozens of ICE agents and local police surrounded
the properties and secured the exits.

Immigration, they said on entering, according to witnesses. Don't move. Stay
calm. Nothing's going to happen. We're only going to identify each person.

(Immigration enforcement officials declined to discuss details of the raids
because the investigation is ongoing.)

There was no escape. One desperate immigrant dived into a large walk-in
refrigerator and slid under a shelf holding cases of beer. He muted his
cellphone and watched as heavy black shoes paced up and down the chilly chamber.

The agents asked the workers if they had proof of legal residency. They bound
suspected illegal immigrants with white plastic handcuffs behind their backs.

At the raided locations, 28 men and one woman from Guatemala, Ecuador, El
Salvador, Honduras, Mexico and Bangladesh were detained. So far, none has been
charged with a crime. All are suspected of "administrative" violations of
immigration law. All but six were released by Friday. The six are those who have
prior immigration violations. The fates of the others will be decided by
immigration officials in coming weeks.

The questioning went on for hours. Where are you from? When did you arrive?
Where did you enter?

Timbuktu busboy Walter Rosas Alvarez, 34, answered: He came from Guayaquil,
Ecuador, about five years ago. He is single with no children and was helping
support his parents back in his homeland. He had never been in trouble with the
police or immigration officials in either country and had been paying taxes with
an IRS tax ID number.

Later, Rosas Alvarez would say that he dreamed of staying in the United States
and had been counting on immigration reform making that possible. He had been
saving his money and buying sophisticated woodworking tools to continue the
skilled carpentry work he once did in Ecuador. Now he expects to be deported.
"For five years, all I did was work," he said. "I came suffering, and I leave
suffering."

A similar scene unfolded at By the Docks restaurant in Middle River, just
outside Baltimore. Agents searched the restaurants' offices for paperwork and
took computer hard drives, according to witnesses.

In the redbrick rambler next door to Timbuktu, where about nine of the immigrant
workers lived, Jose Martinez, 35, a cook from Cuenca, Ecuador, heard agents
shouting commands to open the door. But before Martinez could answer, a
battering ram crashed through the door and three agents entered the living room,
guns pointed at him, Martinez recalled later.

Three other workers, including Josue Perez, 21, were also in the house. Perez, a
busboy, explained later that he was working to support his elderly parents and
three younger brothers who are deaf and unable to speak.

The agents cuffed the men and questioned them. They searched the rooms, pulling
out belongings and throwing things on the floor, Martinez said. Later, the
agents marched the workers to vans and drove them to the detention centers in
Howard and Carroll counties.

After seven hours in the refrigerator at Timbuktu, the hidden immigrant stuck
his head out from under the beer shelf. He felt frozen. He couldn't walk. Two
acquaintances carried him close to the kitchen oven, to warm him.

He had escaped the raid. But now what?

Trying to lie low

About the same time Torres was heading into the White House, and 29 handcuffed
immigrants were answering questions, Valerie Yahlouskaya was driving on Eastern
Boulevard in Middle River.

Yahlouskaya passed By the Docks, where her husband worked in the kitchen. She
thought it was strange that police cars were blocking the entrance and exit to
the parking lot. She saw a waitress crying on the restaurant porch.

Yahlouskaya tried to call her husband. No answer. She called the restaurant. No
answer. Then she got a call, and a waitress, between sobs, talked low and fast
before abruptly hanging up: The cops came and they took all the guys. . . . A
cop is coming, I have to go!

"I was in shock," Yahlouskaya said, recalling events later. "It was surreal. I
got scared."

She spoke on the condition that her husband's name and his home country in
Central America not be disclosed. (Immigration officials declined to identify
any of the suspects.)

Yahlouskaya and her husband, both 30, met in 2003 and married in 2004. They have
three children, American citizens, ages 2, 3 and 5.

Her husband worked in the restaurant kitchen six days a week, up to 12 hours a
day. They had been getting ready to buy a house, Yahlouskaya said. "We kept
waiting to see -- maybe they'll pass the [immigration reform] law," she said.
"We got a new president. . . . It was just lay low and see if something
changes."

Now her husband faces possible deportation.

"No way, I don't want to think about it," Yahlouskaya says. Neither she nor the
children speak Spanish, she said, and she's not sure she could relocate to
Central America.

But if she didn't, "he won't see his kids, they won't see their father."

The ripple effects of the raid know no borders.

In the little town of Quebrada de Arena, Honduras, Esperanza Pineda learned that
her husband had been detained. He had been sending home $900 a month, the sole
support for his wife and four children, ages 14 and younger.

Maria Perez's cellphone rang in Langley Park. It was her uncle, who works
construction in Maryland: Had she heard from her brother Josue? Josue was picked
up in the raid on the group house.

"I thought it was a bad joke," said Maria Perez, 20, a waitress.

She would have to tell their parents in Central America. (A lawyer advised her
not to disclose the country.)

Josue had come to the United States five years ago, Maria three years ago.
Together they sent home $150 a month to help support their parents and disabled
brothers -- about a quarter of the family's monthly budget, according to their
mother, Elvida Esperanza Oliva Cardona.

"He went away, risking and suffering to support his brothers," Oliva Cardona
said in a telephone interview, bursting into tears. "He is our right hand."

Now with Josue's future uncertain, "it's up to me to stay, more than ever,"
Maria Perez said. "It's a big responsibility."

Two tough choices

Skeptics of immigration reform support the raids and dispute attempts to paint
the alleged illegal immigrants and their families as victims.

"You need to have raids and arrests, not just of employers, but of illegal
workers, in order to make clear you can't get away with this," Krikorian said.

"These are clearly heart-wrenching stories, there's no question about it," he
continued. But "you can't just say, 'Here's a guy who has got kids living on a
dirt floor in Guatemala, therefore we should just let him violate the whole
system of public laws.' . . . It doesn't address the harm that low-skilled
immigration does to the American workers, who are competing against immigrant
workers."

Other supporters of tougher immigration controls argue that illegal immigrants
are a strain on school budgets and the health-care system, which are not fully
compensated by the taxes many of the workers pay.

Torres activated CASA's raid-response system. Lawyers and volunteers for the
immigrant advocacy group began contacting family members and making arrangements
to visit the detainees and advise them of their rights.

Torres charged that the timing looked like an attempt to "intimidate" the
marchers.

Meanwhile, administration officials used back channels to try to convince
advocates that the timing was coincidental. They characterized these raids as
fitting the administration's policy of targeting alleged criminal violators,
including employers.

"It was part of an ongoing criminal investigation into worker exploitation,"
said a federal law enforcement official who declined to be identified in order
to discuss the case.

No charges have been filed against the owners of the restaurants and houses.

A Maryland institution, Timbuktu was co-founded three decades ago by Michael
Stavlas. Now George Anagnostou, a relative of Stavlas's, is a principal owner of
both Timbuktu and By the Docks. Stavlas is an owner of the group house.

Timbuktu and By the Docks are large operations, proud of their crab cakes,
employing as many as 250 people.

Anagnostou and Stavlas declined to comment on the raids or the investigations.
Several of the immigrant workers and their family members spoke fondly of
Anagnostou.

"He was always good with the guys," Yahlouskaya said. "He gave raises, paid
overtime. . . . He took taxes out of their paychecks."

What now?

He was wearing a green rugby shirt and standing outside a discount appliance
store in suburban Baltimore: The immigrant who got away.

After warming himself by the stove the day of the raid, he made it to a friend's
house. At 41 years old, he has devoted nearly half of his life to working in the
United States, mostly at Timbuktu.

"The truth is, I feel as though I became a part of this country," he said,
blinking back tears. "The only thing I don't have is legal papers. My dream is
to have a house, form a business and move ahead. I paid taxes because I wanted
to have everything be clean.

"Now all that's finished."

He knows it was a violation for him to arrive and stay without authorization.
But he considers himself honorable. For all the raid's destiny-altering
consequences, for him it was above all a humiliation.

"Because we are not criminals," he said.

After Sunday's march, he planned to find another state to live in. Start all
over, still in the shadows.

Staff researcher Magda Jean-Louis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; The faces of reform: From left, Gustavo Torres, head of CASA of Maryland,
with Oved Vigil, Edwin Mazariegos and Esvin Blanco, who were among those
arrested recently at several Maryland locations. Josue Perez, right, a busboy at
Timbuktu Restaurant, was also among those arrested. Below, the tracking ankle
bracelets three of the detainees wore to Sunday's immigration reform march.
IMAGE; Above And Top Left: Evy Mages For The Washington Post; Timbuktu: David
Montgomery/the Washington Post; Perez: Family Photo
IMAGE
IMAGE; Evy Mages For The Washington Post; Showing their colors: Esvin Blanco,
Oved Vigi and Edwin Mazariegos at Sunday's March for America. "We are not
criminals," said one speaker. "We are workers here to push this country
forward!"
IMAGE; Evy Mages For The Washington Post; Taking a stand: Cesar Guanoquiza spoke
at the rally on behalf of a nephew, a brother and a cousin who were arrested in
raids March 11.
IMAGE; David Montgomery/the Washington Post; Shelter but no refuge: This house
in Hanover was home to about nine of the immigrant employees of the nearby
Timbuktu Restaurant.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

A broad coalition rallies for an overhaul of immigration laws;
Path sought to citizenship Mall fills with calls for Congress, Obama to act

BYLINE: Nurith Aizenman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 895 words


Tens of thousands of immigrants and their supporters from across the United
States packed the Mall on Sunday in a last-ditch effort to spur Congress and the
White House to overhaul the nation's immigration system and offer its 10.8
million illegal immigrants a path to citizenship this year against increasingly
long odds.

Warmed by occasional bursts of sunshine, the festive crowd beat drums and waved
American flags and placards reading "Change takes Courage" and "Obama Don't
Forget Your Promise!"

"We've been patient long enough. We've listened quietly. We've asked politely.
We've turned the other cheek so many times our heads are spinning," Rep. Luis V.
Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who has led the push for immigration legislation within the
House of Representatives, shouted, to roars of approval. "It's time to let
immigrants come out of the shadows into the light and for America to embrace
them and protect them."

D.C. officials do not give crowd estimates, so it was difficult to determine
whether turnout reached the several hundred thousand estimated by organizers.
But the rally, which stretched from Seventh to 12th streets in a dense carpet of
humanity, appeared to be the movement's largest show of strength since 2006,
when mass rallies in favor of a legalization plan erupted in cities across the
country.

As at past rallies by the movement, most of Sunday's participants appeared to be
Latino, including many who broke into repeated chants in Spanish, such as "SÃ­,
se puede!" (Yes, we can!) But there were also displays of diversity, including a
group of Senegalese immigrant women, who had perched tiny American flags in
their traditional headdresses, and immigrant Thai families carrying signs
written in the script of their native country as they pushed their American-born
children in strollers.

Like many in the crowd, 15-year-old Yessenia Saucedo, the U.S.-born child of
Mexican immigrants living in Oakland, Calif., had spent weeks selling tamales
and candy to raise money for the trip to Washington.

"It was important for me to come because my mother is undocumented, and we're
constantly in fear that we're going to get separated," said the girl, who
traveled for four days by bus with a group of youth leaders. "It's just very
emotional for me to be here."

The roster of speakers also highlighted the degree to which immigrant-rights
groups have broadened their coalition since their last major effort at a
congressional overhaul of immigration failed in 2007.

Benjamin Jealous, executive director of the NAACP, was among the first to speak,
underscoring recent widespread efforts by Latino leaders to reach out to a
constituency often concerned that Latino immigrants take jobs from low-income
African Americans.

Catholic leaders, who have long supported a legalization plan, were joined by
evangelicals who have recently signed on to the effort.

Also onstage was Arlene Holt Baker, executive vice president of the AFL-CIO,
which expressed reservations about the 2007 immigration bill, fearing that it
did not protect workers' rights. This year, the union has united with others to
back the effort.

Similarly, prominent Latino figures such as Janet MurguÃ­a, president of the
National Council of La Raza, were joined by leaders of Asian American
organizations and smaller groups representing immigrants from countries
including Haiti.

Numerous speakers pointed to the political muscle Latinos demonstrated during
the presidential election, when 57 percent voted for Barack Obama.

"Wake up and smell the cafecito!" yelled Maria Rodriguez, executive director of
the Florida Immigrant Coalition. "Latino workers, campesinos [farm workers] and
families are here to stay. To be counted in the ballot box."

Last week, organizers said the impending mobilization had already reaped
results. In a commentary article in Friday's Washington Post, Sens. Charles E.
Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) laid out a blueprint for an
overhaul bill. Among the points: Illegal immigrants would pay back taxes and
perform community service before they could gain legal status, U.S. citizens and
legal immigrants would be required to obtain a new high-tech Social Security
card and a system to bring in temporary workers in line with the demands of the
U.S. economy would be created.

President Obama, who appeared in a video message played at the demonstration,
immediately endorsed the plan, although he stopped short of earlier promises to
move on a bill this year. Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) also
promised floor time if the bill emerges from the Judiciary Committee.

However, Sunday's rally also highlighted the challenges of taking on the
immigration system with midterm elections approaching in the fall and at a time
of 10 percent unemployment. Noticeably absent were business groups, such as the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which was a key backer of the 2007 legislation. The
chamber has expressed doubts about details of this year's proposal.

Still, the mood of the crowd remained hopeful and often defiant.

"It really feels like we're finally being taken into account," said Rodolfo
Amilca, 34, an illegal immigrant from El Salvador who lives in Silver Spring. A
house painter who had never before joined a demonstration, he said the immense
turnout had fueled his optimism.

"This is a day I will never forget," Amilca said. "It was really special."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Marvin Joseph/ The Washington Post; A photograph of
President Ronald Reagan, who signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act in
1986, is held aloft at the rally on the Mall. The act made it illegal to
knowingly hire or recruit illegal immigrants and granted amnesty to certain
illegal immigrants. For a video and more photos from the immigration rally,
visit washingtonpost.com/local.
IMAGE; Anna Bayona, left, and Mary Luz walk beneath a giant American flag. The
demonstration stretched from Seventh to 12th streets.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

POST PARTISAN;
Excerpts from The Post's opinion blog, updated daily at
washingtonpost.com/postpartisan

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 353 words


Eva Rodriguez

  The wrong banner to take up

 I found it offensive that some of the people who marched on Washington on
Sunday for immigration reform were waving the flags of Mexico, Honduras and El
Salvador while demanding rights and privileges from this country. The flags and
the demands for action "NOW!" suggested a sort of arrogance and entitlement when
humility would have been more in order.

Perhaps these marchers meant the flags as symbols of cultural or ethnic identity
and not as political banners of foreign sovereigns. Perhaps they meant
absolutely no offense and are at once proud of their heritage and sincere in
their desire to become Americans. But flags weren't my only problem.

I don't understand the claim by some that those here illegally are somehow
victims. Did they not choose to come to this country, and did they not know that
they either entered illegally or illegally overstayed visas? Of course they did.
Do they not appreciate that one of the things that makes this country great is
the rule of law -- unlike, sadly, some of the countries they left behind? If so,
undocumented immigrants must take responsibility for their plight.

Let me be clear: I am the daughter of immigrants who fled Cuba in 1960. They
arrived in this country with the blessing of the U.S. government, which
generously offered people like my parents refuge from Fidel Castro's regime.
They were welcomed and encouraged to set down roots. My parents became fluent in
English, became citizens as soon as they could and raised their four children on
lechon asado (Cuban roast pork) and the Pledge of Allegiance.

It is a travesty that more would-be immigrants aren't given such opportunities.
I understand that our immigration system is haplessly dysfunctional and that
major reforms are needed. I understand the feelings of the tens of thousands of
people who took to the Mall and voiced their desire for a path to citizenship,
who want to live without fear of arrest, who want to do an honest day's work and
see their children thrive. I understand that. But next time, show a little
respect and leave the foreign flags at home.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Danny Alvarado waves the Salvadoran flag at Sunday's immigration
rally on the Mall.
IMAGE; Nick Kirkpatrick/the Washington Post

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. permits wider police immigration status checks;
Queries permitted in routine stops Cuccinelli opinion thrusts state into
national debate

BYLINE: Anita Kumar and Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1356 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


Virginia joined the national debate over immigration Monday when Attorney
General Ken Cuccinelli II issued a legal opinion that authorizes law enforcement
to check the immigration status of anyone stopped by police officers for any
reason.

Previously, law enforcement officers in Virginia were required to investigate
the legal status only of those who were arrested and jailed.

Cuccinelli's opinion is less stringent than the portion of an Arizona law that
was stopped by a federal court last week. Under that law, Arizona authorities
were required to question people who they have a "reasonable suspicion" are
illegal immigrants.

"Our opinion basically said that Virginia law enforcement has the authority to
make such inquiries so long as they don't extend the duration of a stop by any
significant degree,'' Cuccinelli (R) said at a news conference Monday. "That's
consistent with Supreme Court authority."

The attorney general issued the opinion in response to a request from Del.
Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince William), who sought clarification on whether local
police, conservation officers and zoning officials could inquire about legal
status.

Marshall said he chose to seek the legal opinion because he feared that the
Senate, under Democratic control, would not approve legislation permitting law
enforcement officers to inquire about legal status during routine stops. Bills
seeking similar powers were killed in the Senate in recent years.

Marshall wrote to Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) on Monday asking him to codify
Cuccinelli's opinion through executive order. He said he thinks that Virginia
can avoid legal trouble by allowing but not mandating the checks by police.

McDonnell spokesman Tucker Martin said the governor will review the opinion,
saying it built upon an opinion he issued as attorney general in 2007. "That
opinion detailed how local and state law enforcement officials can work in
cooperation with federal authorities to ensure the criminal immigration laws of
this nation are upheld and enforced," Martin said in a statement.

'The same inquiries'

In his opinion, Cuccinelli also wrote that local law enforcement officers can
arrest those they suspect of committing criminal violations of immigration laws
-- crossing the border -- but not those they think have violated civil
immigration statutes -- overstaying visas. But he says that checking immigration
status is different than arresting for a violation, and that law enforcement can
inquire.

"Virginia law enforcement officers have the authority to make the same inquiries
as those contemplated by the new Arizona law. So long as the officers have the
requisite level of suspicion to believe that a violation of the law has
occurred, the officers may detain and briefly question a person they suspect has
committed a federal crime," he writes.

Cuccinelli said, however, that local law enforcement can arrest those suspected
of violating criminal laws, but that it is generally "inadvisable" to arrest
those suspected of committing civil violations. "The ability to arrest lies
clearly when there is a criminal offense and it is decidedly unclear where there
is a civil offense," he said.

The attorney general's legal opinion was issued amid a growing national debate
about immigration. A U.S. district judge temporarily blocked the most
controversial sections of Arizona's law, which took effect last week. Nearly 20
states have introduced bills similar to the Arizona law, and nine states,
including Virginia, are filing appellate briefs supporting Arizona.

In Virginia, Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Prince William Board
of County Supervisors, is pushing state lawmakers to pass legislation that would
crack down on illegal immigrants. His proposal includes language that would
require police to check the legal status of anyone who is detained if there is
"reasonable suspicion" that the person is in the United States illegally.

Stewart said Cuccinelli's opinion is a "positive step" that presses local
jurisdictions to act. He said police have been reluctant to check immigration
status because of the workload and fears that they would be accused of racial
profiling.

Senate Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) said some localities may
adopt ordinances based on Cuccinelli's opinion, but predicted such ordinances
would be challenged.

"I think they will have a problem in court,'' he said. "They're going to be told
to go back to the General Assembly."

Of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States, 275,000 to
325,000 live in Virginia, according to the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington.
And some regional advocacy groups fear that Cuccinelli's legal opinion gives law
enforcement the immediate authority to check immigration status.

"There's a danger that some law enforcement would do this,'' said Claire Guthrie
Gastanaga, a former Virginia chief deputy attorney general who lobbies for
immigrant organizations. "They may use this as a permission slip."

Caught off guard

Cuccinelli's opinion caught some law enforcement groups in the state off guard,
including the Virginia Association of Chiefs of Police.

"We were not consulted, and we always welcome the opportunity to talk with the
office of the attorney general. We would have welcomed the opportunity to talk
with him before this opinion, but we still welcome it," said Dana G. Schrad, the
group's executive director. The association does not have a position on asking
about immigration status during stops. "We have a mixed bag of feelings on
immigration status matters, so it's more complicated than do we support it or
not," she said.

Although procedures vary by department, Schrad said police and sheriffs in the
state who inquire about immigration status tend to do so after an arrest, not
during routine stops, although departments including Prince William may ask
about status during a traffic stop to help determine identity if someone lacks
valid identification.

Prince William Chief Charlie Deane has criticized any sweeping questioning,
saying it would cost taxpayers by sapping police resources and could lead to
allegations of racism while harming community relations. Department spokeswoman
Sgt. Kim Chinn said Deane will review Cuccinelli's opinion.

Corinne Geller, a spokeswoman for the Virginia State Police, said Superintendent
W. Steven Flaherty is aware of the opinion but does not plan to make procedural
changes. She said that troopers are allowed to question the people they stop,
but that they do not unless they have a specific reason. For example, she said,
if someone's license, registration and insurance do not match.

Officials at the Virginia Association of Counties and at the Virginia Municipal
League, which represents cities, towns and some counties in the commonwealth,
said it is too soon to say how members will react to the opinion. But the action
comes as several local jurisdictions continue to weigh how best to handle the
influx of illegal immigrants.

"I think the general sense seems to be that Prince William seems to be the only
county interested in enforcing federal law at this point," said James D.
Campbell, executive director of the counties association. "There doesn't seem to
be a lot of discussion elsewhere in the state."

Mark Flynn, director of legal services at the Municipal League, said the
nonpartisan association's board recently asked him, with help from graduate
students at George Mason University, to prepare a report on the costs of illegal
immigration that are borne by local jurisdictions.

"We found that, yes, it has terrific costs on local government," especially on
schools, social services and police, Flynn said. But Flynn said the group
discovered that calculating those costs precisely is difficult; the group also
recognized that immigrants have brought benefits that are equally challenging to
quantify.

In the end, with members' policies ranging from the get-tough action in Prince
William to the open door in Arlington County, the league has decided to remain
neutral on the approach to illegal immigration.

Staff writers Fredrick Kunkle and Mary Pat Flaherty contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Fatal crash fuels debate on immigration policies;
Bolivian man awaiting hearing on deportation after 2008 DUI case

BYLINE: Paul Duggan and Carol Morello

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1001 words


Proponents of tougher immigration enforcement have seized on the case of a
Bolivian man charged with killing a nun and critically injuring two others while
driving drunk as a symbol of a badly broken immigration system.

Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, 23, who entered the United States illegally at age
8 with his parents and sister, has been awaiting a deportation hearing after two
convictions for drunken driving in 2007 and 2008. His case has been postponed
three times -- and it is one of about 243,000 cases that are clogging
immigration courts, according to statistics compiled by Syracuse University.

Because of the backlog, it takes 15 months to conclude the average case.
Martinelly-Montano's has dragged on for nearly two years.

Immigrant advocates and groups such as Mothers Against Drunk Driving have said
that this is a case about drunken driving, not illegal immigration. The nuns'
order, the Benedictine Sisters of Virginia, has asked that the crash not be
politicized.

But Martinelly-Montano has become Exhibit A in calls to stiffen immigration
enforcement since his car swerved Sunday into the path of a vehicle carrying
three nuns who were on their way to a retreat in Prince William County. He told
police he didn't remember the crash, according to the arrest warrant. Prince
William Commonwealth's Attorney Paul Ebert said he intends to ask a grand jury
to return a second-degree murder indictment next month.

A wake will be held Thursday for Sister Denise Mosier, 66, and her funeral will
be Friday. The two nuns injured in the crash, Sister Connie Ruth Lupton, 75, and
Sister Charlotte Lange, 70, remained in critical condition Wednesday.

Corey A. Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors,
said Wednesday that Congress, President Obama and Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano "all have blood on their hands."

"This tragedy is not due to some mistake by some low-level staff at the
Department of Homeland Security," said Stewart (R-At Large). "The president and
Congress have deliberately starved the department to the point that [Immigration
and Customs Enforcement] doesn't even have the resources to hold and deport
illegal aliens who commit crimes in our communities."

Martinelly-Montano's journey through the immigration system is hard to verify,
because privacy rules bar officials from discussing specifics of the case.
Homeland Security officials will conduct an internal review to determine why the
effort to deport Martinelly-Montano after his second drunken-driving arrest, in
2008, was incomplete at the time of Sunday's crash.

His mother, Maria Martinelly, said in an interview that she, husband Alejandro,
Martinelly-Montano and a daughter entered the United States illegally from
Bolivia in 1996. They filed for permission to live here permanently in 2001 --
an application that she described as still pending -- and were granted work
permits in 2007, she said.

Martinelly showed the employment authorization cards, which were issued by U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, to a Washington Post reporter this week.
But work permits do not confer legal status to undocumented immigrants, said
Crystal L. Williams, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

"That's actually a common misunderstanding of people who get employment cards,"
she said. "When they get the card, it makes them think they're legal. In fact,
all the government is saying to them is: 'You have what appears on its face to
be a valid petition for legal residency. So while we're trying to decide that,
we'll let you work.' "

After Martinelly-Montano's first drunken-driving arrest, in Prince William in
2007, ICE apparently was not notified of the charge, said an ICE official who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case. The
agency's first contact with him was after his second drunken-driving arrest in
2008, also in Prince William, the official said. Martinelly-Montano served no
jail time in the first case and 20 days in the second.

Although Martinelly-Montano had a work permit at the time of his October 2008
arrest, he had not been granted legal status, the official said. A month after
that arrest, the official said, ICE began trying to have him deported.

Even if he had been granted legal status by then, Williams said, he still would
have been "removable." She said ICE probably would have sought deportation based
on the drunken-driving arrests, regardless of his status.

Martinelly-Montano's deportation hearing before an immigration judge was
initially scheduled for April 21, 2009, six months after ICE had first
encountered him, said Elaine Komis, a spokeswoman for the immigration court. In
the meantime, rather than detaining him, ICE allowed Martinelly-Montano to
remain free on his own recognizance, the official said.

Williams said ICE typically detains violent criminals pending deportation
hearings but not convicted drunk drivers. "There's not enough room in the jails,
and it's incredibly expensive," she said. "The federal government has got to
make these choices, and does every day, on how to best use taxpayer resources."

Citing privacy rules, Komis would not disclose why Martinelly-Montano's hearing
was repeatedly delayed -- from April 2009 to May 7, 2009; then to Dec. 3, 2009;
then to Aug. 19.

Williams said that the number of continuances in Martinelly-Montano's case was
"a bit unusual," although it is common for lawyers on both sides to seek delays.
"That happens a lot," she said.

Critics of the immigration system say that's part of the problem.

"Here is a perfect example of how our government at various levels -- state,
federal and local -- is failing to protect the public safety," said Greg
Letiecq, head of the anti-illegal immigrant group Help Save Manassas. "If the
government had done the job they promised us they would do, and kept illegal
aliens out of this country, a nun would be alive today."

Staff writers Jennifer Buske and Kevin Sieff contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Martinelly-Montano is charged with manslaughter.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Stop the torrent of hate after a deadly drunk-driving crash

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 203 words


As a Catholic sister, I grieve the death of Sister Denise Mosier in an auto
accident caused by a drunk driver ["Va. driver had record of DUIs before fatal
crash," front page, Aug. 3] and the serious injury of two of her fellow nuns.
But I am also horrified that people are using this tragedy to fuel their
anti-immigrant ravings aimed at our Hispanic neighbors. This vilification began
even before news reports revealed the driver's immigration status. His Hispanic
name was enough to unleash a torrent of hateful messages in The Post's online
comments section. Local politicians soon followed with anti-immigrant statements
to fuel their political agendas.

Enough! Hate speech does not honor these good sisters. Prayer and compassion are
the appropriate response. DUI offenses should be taken more seriously since the
driver's intoxication -- not his immigration status -- caused this tragedy.

We as a nation must stop this immigrant-bashing. It is time for all of us to
insist that Congress show some courage and pass comprehensive immigration
reform. This would be a proper tribute to Sister Denise's memory.

Simone Campbell, Washington

The writer is executive director of Network, a Catholic social justice advocacy
group.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Crash spurs request for immigration data;
Pr. William official wants Congress to subpoena records

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 631 words


The chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors has asked
Congress to subpoena certain Immigration and Customs Enforcement records that he
thinks will outrage the general public and make the Obama administration take a
closer look at immigration reform.

On Thursday, Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) sent letters to several
members of Congress, asking them to subpoena ICE records that show how many
illegal immigrants are being released from ICE custody back into the county and
what crimes they  are accused of committing.

Stewart said that county officials have tried over the years to get the
information but that their requests have gone unanswered. With Congress behind
him, however, he thinks that will change.

"Once I have these numbers, I will publicize them as much as possible," said
Stewart, who also sent a copy of the letter to the director of ICE. "I think the
vast majority of Americans are going to be absolutely shocked at the Obama
administration's policy of releasing illegal aliens who have committed crimes
and pose a clear threat back into their neighborhoods."

Stewart said his action was prompted by a car crash Sunday in Bristow in which a
nun was killed and two others were seriously injured. Carlos A.
Martinelly-Montano, who is charged with drunken driving and involuntary
manslaughter in the crash, entered the United States illegally as a child. He
was released by immigration authorities after two previous drunken driving
convictions and had been awaiting a deportation hearing.

The nuns' religious order has asked people not to politicize the crash.

Clarissa Martinez, director of immigration and national campaigns for the
National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group, said Stewart was
ignoring that appeal.

"I think Corey Stewart has a proven record of using immigration for political
reasons, and I think it's sad he is not heeding the call from the nuns,"
Martinez said. "He has built a political career on railing against immigration
and adopting decisions that have led to the problem he is railing about now."

Martinez said Stewart's push for a crackdown on illegal immigration has led to
the system's being overwhelmed. The county's policy, adopted in 2007 and
modified in 2008, requires police officers to check the immigration status of
anyone arrested on suspicion of violating a state or local law.

Stewart said he plans to appear before a congressional subcommittee on
immigration, although no appearance is scheduled.

Stewart, who announced his plan Thursday on CNN, said the problem is not that
ICE officials are "evil," they just don't have the resources to do their job.
Stewart said the numbers, if released by ICE, will speak for themselves and
hopefully rally the community and Congress to take a closer look at immigration
reform.

When asked whether Stewart had a chance of  obtaining the information, ICE
responded with national statistics. In fiscal 2009, of 380,000 illegal
immigrants detained by ICE, 117,000 were potentially eligible to be released
back into the community,  said ICE spokesman Matthew Chandler, who declined to
comment directly  on Stewart's request.

David Leopold, national president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said Congress has "tremendous authority" and can ask for whatever
information it wants.

ICE releases statistics on deportations of illegal immigrants, Leopold said, and
as long as Stewart isn't asking for information about specific cases, ICE should
be able to provide the information.

Leopold, however, said he doesn't know whether Congress will  give a positive
response to Stewart's plea.

"I would think people in Congress would pause"  before acting on the request, he
said. "There is no logical reason that this information is going to help in this
case."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Mr. Cuccinelli chimes in;
Immigration law was clear enough without the Virginia attorney general's
opinion.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 418 words


IN SOME WAYS, the opinion issued last week by Virginia Attorney General Ken
Cuccinelli II on immigration checks is unremarkable.

In a letter, Mr. Cuccinelli essentially gave law enforcement officers the green
light to check the immigration status of anyone they stop. Although the letter
made headlines after news reports of the Aug. 1 death of a Virginia nun at the
hands of an undocumented immigrant who was accused of driving drunk,  it is
dated July 30 -- two days before the tragic accident. Mr. Cuccinelli issued his
pronouncement in response to a lawmaker's query about the status of Virginia
law.

The opinion largely mirrors a 2007 letter issued by Robert F. McDonnell, then
attorney general and now governor,  which concluded that officers have the
authority to ask about immigration status during routine stops. These opinions
are nonbinding and do not mandate specific action on the part of the law
enforcement officers, giving local jurisdiction the discretion to decide what
procedures to adopt. This is a far cry from the recently blocked portion of an
Arizona law that required officers to check immigration status if they had
"reasonable suspicion" that a person they stopped was in the country illegally.
Yet Mr. Cuccinelli's letter and his news  conference serve as powerful reminders
of the animus and ignorance that fuels so much of the immigration debate.

Virginia already has a number of laws on the books that require officers to
check the immigration status of those who are arrested. For example, a 2008 law
mandates that the immigration status of anyone arrested and jailed in the state
must be  checked. This approach dovetails with the federal Secure Communities
program, which was begun under the Bush administration and advanced by President
Obama. The program makes it easier and more financially feasible for local and
state jurisdictions to verify whether someone is in the country legally.

This approach is a sensible one. But state and local law enforcement officers
should not be in the business of rounding up foreign-looking or foreign-sounding
individuals to check on immigration status in the absence of a criminal
violation. Such an approach would only lead to racial profiling and probably
scare many otherwise law-abiding immigrants from reporting crimes or cooperating
with an investigation.

As for Mr. Cuccinelli, he would do better to devote himself to Virginia's
genuine legal problems, rather than grandstanding about immigration matters that
require no clarification.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Time to get neighborly with the Americas

BYLINE: Bill Richardson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 805 words


Arizona's attempt to create and enforce its own immigration policy has once
again amplified -- and politicized -- the immigration debate in this country.
But the fallout of that debate extends beyond our borders. The anti-

immigrant push in Arizona has further alienated our neighbors throughout Latin
America, who had been hoping for better relations with the United States after
President Obama's election. We need to turn this opportunity to our advantage
and engage with our neighbors throughout the Western Hemisphere.

Latin America has perhaps the greatest impact, in terms of trade and culture, on
the daily lives of most Americans. U.S. exports to Latin America have grown
faster in the past 11 years than to any other region, including Asia. Hispanics
represent the biggest ethnic and most sought-after voting bloc in the United
States. And nearly every country in North America, Central America, South
America and the Caribbean now has a democratically elected government.

The time is right to leverage our trade and partnerships and advance a more
collaborative relationship with our neighbors to the south. The Obama
administration should consider these five steps:

-- First, it should aggressively lobby Congress for a comprehensive immigration
law. Such legislation would include increased border security; a crackdown on
illegal hires; and an accountable path to legalization that requires the 11
million immigrants here illegally to learn English, pass a background check, pay
fines and get in line behind those who are trying to enter our country legally.
Illegal immigrants come to our country from Central and South America and the
Caribbean. This is not just an issue with Mexico; it is a hemispheric issue that
needs a comprehensive response.

-- Second, as a first step to changing our policy toward Cuba, the president
should issue an executive order to lift as much of the travel ban as possible.
The travel ban penalizes U.S. businesses, lowers our credibility in Latin
America and fuels anti-U.S. propaganda. Lifting the ban would also be a
reciprocal gesture for Cuba's recent agreement, negotiated among the Catholic
Church, the Spanish government and President RaÃºl Castro, to release political
dissidents. Obama has taken significant steps to loosen restrictions on family
travel, remove limits for remittance and expand cooperation in other areas such
as expanding the export of humanitarian goods from the United States into Cuba.
Loosening travel restrictions is in U.S. interests and would be a bold move
toward normalization of relations with Cuba.

-- Third, embark on a new Alliance for Progress with Latin America and the
Caribbean, modeled on President John F. Kennedy's vision for the hemisphere.
This should not be a one-sided alliance preconceived on expansion of U.S.
markets, nor an agreement that imposes a U.S. solution. We need a new
partnership in which we close the gap between the haves and have-nots by
addressing both human and economic needs and giving more priority to the
indigenous people of this hemisphere.

The United States needs to craft a hemispheric agenda that includes and
emphasizes solutions to energy demands and climate change in Latin America and
the Caribbean. Perhaps we need a hemispheric agreement on renewable energy that
provides the technical know-how for the Americas and dramatically expands the
biofuel agreement with Brazil. We also need to move quickly toward a real
carbon-trading system that would reward countries that protect their forests.

-- Fourth, we should continue to seek trade agreements that are free and fair
and contain strong standards on labor, the environment and human rights. Pending
trade agreements with Colombia and Panama should be approved by Congress and
once again establish the United States as a reliable trading partner.
Additionally, the Obama administration should seek a hemispheric agreement on
common labor, environmental and human rights standards. This bold move would
promote our interests and image in the region.

-- Finally, we need a hemispheric accord on crime and violence. In New Mexico,
we are working with law enforcement at the local, state and federal levels and
on both sides of our border with Mexico to share intelligence and stop the
illicit trade of narcotics, illegal guns and human trafficking. These are
transnational issues that involve a coordinated effort to protect the safety of
law-abiding citizens of the United States and Mexico. We must not allow the
immigration debate to distract from our national responsibility to engage with
our neighbors in Latin America and the Caribbean. Better hemispheric relations
should be a foreign policy priority, not an afterthought.

The writer, a Democrat, is governor of New Mexico. He is former U.S. ambassador
to the United Nations and former energy secretary.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Justice threatens to sue Arizona sheriff;
Cooperation with discrimination investigation at issue

BYLINE: Jerry Markon and Stephanie McCrummen

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1361 words


A federal investigation of a controversial Arizona sheriff known for tough
immigration enforcement has intensified in recent days, escalating the conflict
between the Obama administration and officials in the border state.

Justice Department officials in Washington have issued a rare threat to sue
Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio if he does not cooperate with their
investigation of whether he discriminates against Hispanics. The civil rights
inquiry is one of two that target the man who calls himself "America's toughest
sheriff." A federal grand jury in Phoenix is examining whether Arpaio has used
his power to investigate and intimidate political opponents and whether his
office misappropriated government money, sources said.

The standoff comes just weeks after the Justice Department sued Arizona and Gov.
Jan Brewer (R) because of the state's new immigration law, heightening tensions
over the issue ahead of November's midterm elections. The renewed debate has
focused attention on Arpaio, a former D.C. police officer who runs a
3,800-employee department, and a state at the epicenter of the controversy over
the nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Once seen as a quirky figure who has inmates dress in pink underwear and forces
them to work on chain gangs, Arpaio has in recent years become a kind of folk
hero to those who favor

his heavily publicized "crime sweeps," conducted mostly in Hispanic
neighborhoods. But civil rights groups accuse the 78-year-old lawman of racial
profiling. And some Maricopa County officials say Arpaio has begun meritless
corruption investigations of officials who have criticized his policies or
opposed his requests.

Those allegations are at the core of the Justice Department investigations,
according to documents, lawyers familiar with the inquiries, and people who have
been questioned by FBI agents and the grand jury.

The investigations reflect the tangled politics surrounding the immigration
debate. The criminal probe is led by Dennis K. Burke, the U.S. attorney in
Phoenix who was a top aide to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano.

Two of Arpaio's attorneys, Robert N. Driscoll and Asheesh Agarwal, were
officials in the Justice Department's civil rights division in the George W.
Bush administration. They denied that the sheriff, a Republican who has been
reelected four times since 1992, has been uncooperative or has engaged in racial
profiling, misusing money or targeting political enemies.

"The sheriff's office is cooperating fully with the grand jury investigation and
has complete confidence that the inquiry will clear it of any wrongdoing,"
Agarwal said. "The office has always fulfilled its responsibilities truthfully,
honorably, and in full compliance with state and federal law."

Arpaio's attorneys contend that the investigations are politically motivated,
citing a news conference in March at which Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.
was quoted as saying he expects the inquiries to "produce results."

"While we have no quarrel with the assistant U.S. attorneys handling the
investigation, the attorney general's comments appear to violate federal
regulations, departmental policy and state ethical rules designed to ensure the
fairness of criminal investigations," Agarwal said.

Brewer and her supporters have also asserted that the Justice Department was
politically motivated in its lawsuit over the state law, which authorizes, among
other things, police officers to ask about the status of  people suspected of
being in the country illegally. A federal judge last month stopped the most
controversial sections of the legislation from taking effect.

Justice Department officials denied any political considerations, saying the
investigations and the lawsuit are based on the facts and the law. They declined
to comment on details of the Arpaio inquiries.

The civil rights division's investigation began in March 2009 and focuses on
whether Arpaio's department engaged in "discriminatory police practices and
unconstitutional searches and seizures," along with allegations that his jail
discriminated against Hispanic inmates, according to letters the division sent
to Arpaio. A complaint to the Justice Department said that even bilingual jail
guards are required to speak to inmates only in English and that the rule could
endanger prisoners' medical care. The jail was also accused of forcing Hispanic
visitors to fill out a "citizenship check" form, the letters said.

Lawyers in the division have repeatedly interviewed Phoenix area human rights
leaders about Arpaio's immigration sweeps, and local "cop watch" groups have
turned over hours of video footage of the sweeps to investigators.

"Their questions are in regards to racial profiling, questions about what are
the practices when people get stopped," said Salvador Reza, an organizer with
the Puente human rights movement who has met with Justice Department lawyers. He
said the lawyers have asked about the treatment of inmates in Arpaio's jail.

In an Aug. 3 letter to Arpaio's attorneys, Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney
general for the civil rights division, said the sheriff's office had declined
repeated requests to turn over documents and meet with investigators. Without
cooperation by Tuesday, the letter said, the government would file suit "to
compel access to the requested documents, facilities and personnel."

In his Aug. 5 reply, Driscoll accused the Justice Department of "a desperate
attempt" to compel cooperation and of "a public relations campaign against
Sheriff Arpaio." He added: "DOJ cannot require the reproduction of millions of
pages of documents so DOJ can 'see what it can find.' "

Arpaio's resistance is highly unusual: Justice Department officials said the
threat of such a lawsuit is rare. They added that they plan to meet with the
sheriff's attorneys next week in a last-ditch effort to forestall litigation. If
the department files a broader civil lawsuit, it could result in the department
terminating the several million dollars in grants to Arpaio's office each year
or in a judge's order forcing him to change his policies.

On a separate track, the grand jury investigation has been underway since at
least January. Lawyers familiar with the inquiry and witnesses said it is
focused on allegations that as Arpaio has fought with the county board over his
budget and other issues, he and his deputies have retaliated by carrying out at
least seven criminal investigations of county officials alleging corruption,
fraud and other crimes.

Some legal experts say it could be difficult for such allegations to result in
criminal charges. "I don't know what a charge would be," said Peter Zeidenberg,
a former Justice Department public corruption prosecutor. "We all would agree
that being abusive is wrong, but I'm not aware of any federal statute that would
fit."

In one case, Arpaio leveled 40 corruption-related charges against a county
supervisor who had spoken out against his policies, all of which a judge
dismissed. In another, the sheriff's allies in the county attorney's office
filed more than 100 criminal counts against another supervisor for improperly
filling out required financial disclosure forms. Several days after a judge
dismissed most of those, Arpaio's deputies arrested the supervisor in a parking
garage and walked him before TV cameras to jail, announcing more than 100 new
charges, which a judge dismissed. (Some of the original charges remain on
appeal.)

"They'll never stop," said Deputy County Manager Sandi Wilson, who was named in
one of Arpaio's investigations. Wilson testified before the grand jury and has
spoken to FBI investigators more than a dozen times, as recently as last week.
"They don't care who tells them to stop."

County Manager David Smith said grand jurors also questioned him about deputies'
trips to conferences and training missions in Las Vegas, Honduras and other
destinations, where he said they often stayed at "boutique" hotels. He said
prosecutors were focusing on "issues that might involve the crime of extortion
over the county budget, misappropriation of funds and abuse of police power."

McCrummen reported from Phoenix.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Joe Arpaio

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 27, 2010 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigration policies sparking tensions within ICE;
Obama administration stances on detentions face internal resistance

BYLINE: Andrew Becker

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1204 words


As it poises for further immigration initiatives, U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement is struggling with festering internal divisions between political
appointees and career officials over how to enforce laws and handle detainees
facing deportation.

Under the Obama administration, the Department of Homeland Security has shifted
its focus away from the worksite raids and sweeps employed during George W.
Bush's presidency to deporting more criminals and creating less prisonlike
detention settings. But ICE, a branch of DHS, is facing intensified resistance
from agency middle managers and attorneys, and the union that represents
immigration officers.

The internal conflict has grown increasingly public over ICE's plans, among them
to expand a risk assessment tool to guide agents on detention decisions, cut
down on transfers of detained immigrants, and open more "civil" detention
facilities -- what field directors call "soft" detention.

Immigration officers say the new measures limit their enforcement efforts and
the revamped lockups will compromise their safety. In June, their union took the
unprecedented step of issuing a vote of no confidence in the agency's director,
John Morton, and the official overseeing detention reform, Phyllis Coven.

Months before that, the 24 field managers who oversee detention and deportation
sent a memorandum to Morton that challenged a number of recommended changes.
Current and former ICE attorneys in New York, Houston and other offices
nationwide say they are angry that they have been instructed to drop efforts to
deport some immigrants.

"We can't find a supervisor or manager that supports Morton or his initiatives,"
said Chris Crane, president of the American Federation of Government Employees'
National Council 118, the union that issued the no-confidence vote.

Many of the measures, set to be implemented in the coming weeks and months, may
not require a conversation with the union, but ICE leadership seeks the union's
viewpoint on issues tied most closely to immigration reform, said Beth Gibson,
ICE's assistant deputy director.

"We are at the beginning of a big push," Gibson said in an interview. "We are
about to come up on a series of things I see as incredibly powerful pieces of
reform."

Crane said the union wants to negotiate over implementation, which could delay
some changes.

The criticisms of ICE illustrate the obstacles the Obama administration must
navigate in selling the changes to the ranks while trying to appear both tough
on enforcement and serious about fixing the nation's immigration laws. The
friction between the agency's leadership and managers tasked with instituting
the changes reflects the nation's split over immigration.

A senior White House official, acknowledging the rift between ICE leadership and
boots-on-the-ground employees, said the union's unusual posture of addressing
policy sent a message consistent with groups that espouse tougher immigration
restrictions.

"The call from the left is John Morton is too tough. The guy is leading the
effort to remove more people from the country than ever before," said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters. "That
others say he's soft on enforcement strikes me as remarkable. At the end of the
day, it's about sound law-and-order principles, not decisions based on the
political wind."

Several current and former immigration officers, senior managers and attorneys,
however, said in interviews that the agency's leadership regularly changes
course on policy, apparently based on the political climate. Attorneys point to
an ongoing review of pending cases and the dismissal of deportation charges
against some immigrants without serious criminal records.

Michael D. Rozos Sr., who retired May 1 as one of the agency's most senior field
managers, said he left his position in Miami "several years early" out of
frustration that the agency was moving backward toward the years of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The defunct agency became part of ICE
when DHS was created in 2002.

"I see a repeat of what the INS was like, which was chasing its tail," Rozos
said. "They're trying to go in every direction and end up going in circles."

Rozos was one of the 24 field managers who sent a 19-page memo, obtained by the
Center for Investigative Reporting, that outlined objections to an October
report widely adopted as the detention-policy playbook. They also complained
that their input was never sought.

"The Report seems to advocate that an entirely 'soft' detention system would be
the ideal," the memo states. "In reality, there is a significant population with
criminal convictions, arrest histories, gang affiliation, psychological issues,
drug abuse, etc., and these individuals pose a flight risk or security risk to
ICE officers, other detainees and, at times, themselves."

The "soft" detention facilities will house low-risk detainees without criminal
records in less restrictive settings while giving more access to recreation.

One of the new civil detention sites, the James Musick Facility, is a
non-working farm near Los Angeles, Gibson said. Other lockups will open in San
Francisco, Miami, Chicago and elsewhere to cut down on transfers.

ICE spokesman Brian P. Hale said the agency remains committed to reform, despite
the internal rumblings. "There are significant numbers that are in agreement and
support our effort," Hale said. "Our challenge and ultimate goal is to stay
focused and successfully implement our goals."

ICE might not be alone in facing a backlash. Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) in
July released a leaked draft memo from ICE's sister agency, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, which outlined administrative remedies if a legislative
fix falls short.

The memo angered  Republicans, who said it proved the Obama administration wants
to circumvent Congress to provide amnesty to thousands of illegal immigrants.

Janice Kephart of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for
immigration restrictions, said agents are frustrated because they feel they
aren't allowed to do their jobs to fully enforce the law. Frank Sharry,
executive director of the pro-immigration-reform group America's Voice, said ICE
is run by "a bunch of political appointees on top of a rogue agency."

Doris Meissner, who as INS commissioner in the 1990s saw similar tensions, said
the union's message is a "severe internal pushback."

"It is a barometer of how difficult it is to make change and how they have to
really work it internally as well as externally," added Meissner, a senior
fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan Washington think tank.

Though ideological differences pose a challenge, they are not insurmountable,
Meissner said, adding that she expects ICE employees to follow the new policies.
The dissension, fostered by the country's polarization over immigration, is a
product of legislative inaction, she said.

"Congress hasn't moved forward with the legislation that the administration
envisioned, which puts ICE in the middle of the fray," she said. "The only thing
happening with immigration in the country is enforcement."

Andrew Becker is a reporter for the Center for Investigative Reporting.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Bill O'leary/the Washington Post; The union representing
immigration officers issued a vote of no confidence ICE director John Morton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

U.S. files new suit on Ariz. immigration issue

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 976 words


The Justice Department filed another lawsuit against immigration practices by
Arizona authorities, saying Monday that a network of community colleges acted
illegally in requiring noncitizens to provide their green cards before they
could be hired for jobs.

The suit against the Phoenix area Maricopa Community Colleges was filed less
than two months after the Justice Department sued Arizona and Gov. Jan Brewer
(R) over the state's new immigration law. It also comes as the department is
investigating Joe Arpaio, the sheriff in Maricopa County, who is known for tough
immigration enforcement.

In Monday's lawsuit, Justice officials said the colleges discriminated against
nearly 250 noncitizen job applicants by mandating that they fill out more
documents than required by law to prove their eligibility to work. That violated
the federal Immigration and Nationality Act, the department said.

The law's anti-discrimination provision "makes it unlawful to treat authorized
workers differently during the hiring process based on their citizenship
status," said Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney general for Justice's Civil
Rights Division. He said the government "is acting now to remedy this pattern or
practice of discrimination."

Tom Gariepy, a spokesman for Maricopa Community Colleges -  which operates 10
colleges and two vocational training centers in and around Phoenix - declined to
comment.

Justice Department officials said the lawsuit is unrelated to the case against
Brewer and the probe of Arpaio and stems from a different investigation that
began in January 2009 - the month the Obama administration took office.

It is the latest example of stepped-up enforcement by the department's Civil
Rights Division, which has been reshaping itself after an exodus of lawyers
during the Bush administration. It filed a similiar lawsuit in April against
John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York.

The lawsuit was filed Tuesday before the Executive Office for Immigration
Review, a Justice Department unit that adjudicates immigration cases. It was
filed on behalf of Zainul Singaporewalla, a U.S. permanent resident who was
offered a math teaching position at Glendale Community College, part of the
Maricopa network.

After filling out a federal form attesting to his immigration status and
producing a driver's license and Social Security card, he was told to complete
another form with more immigration-related information, the lawsuit said.

That form required other documents and his green card. When he couldn't present
his green card, the suit said, the college would not process his paperwork and
would not let him work.

The government is asking a judge within the Justice Department unit to order the
Maricopa colleges to pay a civil penalty of $1,100 for each of the 247
non-U.S.-citizen job applicants it says were required to produce the additional
documents. It says the colleges ended the practice in January.

The Justice Department filed another lawsuit against immigration practices by
Arizona authorities, saying Monday that a network of community colleges acted
illegally in requiring noncitizens to provide their green cards before they
could be hired for jobs.

The suit against the Phoenix-area Maricopa Community Colleges was filed less
than two months after the Justice Department sued Arizona and Gov. Jan Brewer
(R) over the state's new immigration law. It also comes as the department is
investigating Joe Arpaio, the sheriff in Maricopa County, who is known for tough
immigration enforcement.

In Monday's lawsuit, Justice officials said the colleges discriminated against
nearly 250 noncitizen job applicants by mandating that they fill out more
documents than required by law to prove their eligibility to work. That violated
the federal Immigration and Nationality Act, the department said.

The law's antidiscrimination provision "makes it unlawful to treat authorized
workers differently during the hiring process based on their citizenship
status," said Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney general for Justice's Civil
Rights Division. He said the government "is acting now to remedy this pattern or
practice of discrimination."

Tom Gariepy, a spokesman for Maricopa Community Colleges -  which operates 10
colleges and two vocational training centers in and around Phoenix - declined to
comment.

Justice Department officials said the lawsuit is unrelated to the case against
Brewer and the probe of Arpaio and stems from a different investigation that
began in January 2009 - the month the Obama administration took office.

It is the latest example of stepped-up enforcement by the department's Civil
Rights Division, which has been reshaping itself after an exodus of lawyers
during the Bush administration. It filed a similiar lawsuit in April against
John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York.

The lawsuit was filed Tuesday before the Executive Office for Immigration
Review, a Justice Department unit that adjudicates immigration cases. It was
filed on behalf of Zainul Singaporewalla, a U.S. permanent resident who was
offered a math teaching position at Glendale Community College, part of the
Maricopa network.

After filling out a federal form attesting to his immigration status and
producing a driver's license and Social Security card, he was told to complete
another form with more immigration-related information, the lawsuit said.

That form required other documents and his green card. When he couldn't present
his green card, the lawsuit said, the college would not process his paperwork
and would not let him work.

The government is asking a judge within the Justice Department unit to order the
Maricopa colleges to pay a civil penalty of $1,100 for each of the 247 non-U.S.
citizen job applicants it says were required to produce the additional
documents. It says the colleges ended the practice in January.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 3, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Supreme Court docket: Free-speech rights, violent video games, immigration law
Supreme Court docket: Free-speech rights, violent video games, immigration law

BYLINE: - Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 471 words


The Supreme Court has accepted about two-thirds of the cases it will hear this
term. Among the more important oral arguments the court is scheduled to hear
before the end of the year:

l Tuesday: Will determine what kinds of questions the federal government may ask
of contract employees, in this case, whether a background check can include
questions about illegal drug use without violating the right to informational
privacy.

l Wednesday: Poses questions about the First Amendment's protection of free
speech vs. privacy rights. The court will examine protests by the Westboro
Baptist Church of Kansas and its leader, the Rev. Fred W. Phelps, at military
funerals. Albert Snyder sued the church after its 2006 protest in northern
Maryland at the funeral of his son Matthew. A jury awarded Snyder millions of
dollars, finding the protest constituted intentional infliction of emotional
distress, but an appeals court said the group's protests were protected speech.

Connick v. Thompson

l Wednesday: Did a former district attorney shirk his duty to make sure his
deputies complied with their obligations to turn over evidence to the defense?
In this case, prosecutors did not turn over exonerating evidence, and a man was
sent to death row before the incident was uncovered. A jury awarded him $14
million.

l Oct. 12: Looks at whether the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act prevents a
lawsuit by parents who say their child suffered seizures and mental impairment
as a result of a vaccination.

l Oct. 13: Raises again the question of when a state must allow inmates the
right to test DNA evidence that might show their innocence. A Texas death row
inmate says state officials denying his request have violated his civil rights
and his right to due process.

l Nov. 2: California is the latest state attempting to prevent the sale of
"violent" video games to minors. An appeals court said, similar to decisions of
courts elsewhere, that the law violates First Amendment free-speech rights.

l Nov. 13: An Arizona law allows residents to designate a portion of the taxes
they owe to "school tuition organizations" that provide scholarships, most of
which have gone to students at religious schools. Those challenging the law say
that violates the separation of church and state.

l Nov. 13: Federal regulations allowed Mazda to install either a lap seat belt
or a shoulder belt in the second seat of its minivans. The family of a child
injured in an accident says it should have the right to sue Mazda for its choice
of the lap belt.

l Dec. 8: One of Arizona's attempts to crack down on illegal immigrants allows
the state to yank the licenses of employers who hire undocumented workers.
Business groups, civil rights organizations and the federal government say a
state does not have the authority to implement immigration law.

- Robert Barnes

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Whistleblower case probed

BYLINE: Andrew Becker

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 880 words


When a high-ranking immigration official in Florida learned last year that a
local sub-office of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services had reportedly
mishandled hundreds of sensitive naturalization and citizenship certificates,
she was concerned. But after Maria Aran, the chief of staff for the agency's
Miami district, decided the agency wasn't doing enough to address the problem,
she sounded the alarm.

She blew the whistle - a little too hard.

Instead of sending one e-mail to the agency's Office of Security and Integrity,
Aran mistakenly sent her complaint to 300 agents nationwide. One of those agents
then shared the e-mail with Aran's boss.

The Office of Special Counsel, the federal agency that shields government
whistleblowers, is investigating Aran's assertion that her supervisors
retaliated, revoked her responsibilities and threatened to fire her if she
didn't take an involuntary job transfer to another Florida office. An
independent administrative appeals agency last month ordered a 45-day stay of
the reassignment, pending the completion of the Special Counsel's investigation.

The stay, which began Sept. 7, was granted by the Merit Systems Protection
Board, which also ordered USCIS to return Aran to her duties as chief of staff.
The Department of Homeland Security agency administers immigration and
naturalization documents.

"There are reasonable grounds to believe that the agency decided to reassign Ms.
Aran because of her protected disclosures," board chair Susan Tsui Grundmann
wrote in her stay order.

But while USCIS officials concede that there were security problems and other
issues related to the documents, they deny any retaliation against Aran, and
say, in fact, the agency - and Aran - knew of the problems months before her
disclosure.

Aran's attorney acknowledged that personality conflicts not related to the
documents may have existed between Aran and her supervisor, but questioned the
agency's decision to transfer Aran long after those initial tensions arose.

The watchdog agency's investigation is nearly complete, according to its Aug. 30
stay request. The Special Counsel's office declined to comment further.

"There is reasonable basis to believe that Aran's allegations may have also
evidenced a danger to public health and safety due to the serious national
security implications inherent in losing or mishandling hundreds of
naturalization certificates including blank certificates," Special Counsel
attorney Anne Gullick wrote in the stay.

Aran, who through her attorney declined to be interviewed, reported to the
agency's internal affairs office in June 2009 that more than 600 naturalization
and citizenship certificates were routinely left unsecured, unaccounted for, or
issued without the record-keeping necessary to counter fraudulent use, according
to government records.

"If someone is involved in nefarious activities, and they get a bunch of
naturalization certificates, they can give anyone the ticket to walk around the
country unfettered,"Aran's attorney, Daniel N. Vara Jr., said.

USCIS launched an internal investigation after Aran's disclosure. The probe
found last November that the district's Oakland Park sub-office had "numerous
problem areas and lapses in the handling of certificates," according to the stay
request.

USCIS spokesman Bill Wright said the allegation that naturalization certificates
were lost is false and national security was never at risk. "Improvements were
needed in the office's record-keeping practices to accurately account for all
naturalization certificates. Those improvements were instituted," Wright said in
a  statement.

He also denied the allegations that Aran was a whistleblower and that she faced
retaliation. He said the agency knew about the issue in February 2009 and had
begun to address the problems before Aran's disclosure. The agency conducted an
earlier review in April 2009, according to agency officials.

Aran, however, feared her supervisors weren't adequately addressing the
problems, Vara said, so she sent her e-mail. - and got more than she intended.

USCIS district director Linda Swacina confronted Aran about the e-mail,
according to the Special Counsel's stay request. Later, the then-acting
Southeast regional director for USCIS, Rosemary Melville, reassigned Aran to a
position that had other qualified applicants. Aran had 10 days to accept the
assignment, or face possible termination, records show.

"While Swacina and Melville have indicated in investigative interviews that Aran
is being reassigned for performance-related reasons, they were unable to provide
any documentary proof," Gullick, the Special Counsel attorney, wrote in the stay
request.

The proposed move had no relation to the record-keeping issues or Aran's
complaint, Wright said. The transfer would have put Aran in charge of another
field office, he said.

Swacina acknowledged in the management response to the internal investigation
that the Oakland Park field office, which was established in December 2008, did
not have necessary procedures to manage its workload, resulting in "multiple
vulnerabilities."

The agency is instituting national standards for handling of the sensitive
documents, a USCIS official said.

Andrew Becker is a reporter for the Center for Investigative Reporting.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Arlington, Alexandria consider legislative priorities

BYLINE: Christy Goodman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. T30

LENGTH: 527 words


Opposition to a new mandate that requires local governments to cover state
responsibilities, loss of local funding sources and possible immigration laws
are among legislative issues under consideration by Arlington County and
Alexandria officials.

At meetings Saturday, officials from the jurisdictions discussed their
priorities for the 2011 General Assembly session.

"We are concerned about how the General Assembly is changing its commitment to
local governments," said Patricia Carroll, Arlington's legislative liaison.  She
said that the state once returned about half of its revenue to municipalities,
but that in the past three years, the percentage has been 42 percent.

Jurisdictions could face more financial trouble because of a report from the
Governor's Commission on Government Reform and Restructuring, which suggests
legislators consider repealing the business, professional and occupational
license tax, or BPOL tax, and the machinery and tools taxes.

Alexandria's BPOL tax provides about $30 million to the city, "a very impressive
source" of funding, said Bernie Caton, Alexandria's legislative liaison. That
number is near $60 million in Arlington, Carroll said.

She said new funding sources would have to be identified to replace the tax
revenue.

Officials from the jurisdictions decided not to support any legislation that
might resemble Arizona's immigration law, which criminalizes illegal immigration
by defining it as trespassing and allows local law enforcement agencies to
question people they suspect of being undocumented. Both jurisdictions support
in-state tuition rates for all high school graduates, including undocumented
students.

Immigration "is a federal issue [and] states have little authority," Caton told
the City Council and Alexandria delegation at a legislative meeting last week.

Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) has drafted bills dealing with immigration that
are being supported by Dels. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas) and L. Scott
Lingamfelter (R-Prince William).

Richard Merit of Alexandria said at a public hearing that he supports a proposal
by Del.  David L. Englin (D-Alexandria) to raise the cigarette tax to help fund
programs to keep young people from smoking. Alexandria officials support the
bill, and, Carroll said, Arlington officials have not taken a stance on it.

Arlington has requested legislation to renew the transient occupancy charge that
funds convention and visitors services. The county also has requested a bill to
ensure online travel companies pay the tax based on their Virginia bookings.

"A lot of our legislative suggestions will help all the jurisdictions in the
state," said County Board member Barbara A. Favola (D).

A 5-cent tax on plastic bags, use of more federal funds for senior programming
and meals, more transportation funding, support of pretrial release programs for
jails and state affordable housing funds are also among issues considered for
legislation.

Alexandria officials approved their priorities, and Arlington officials are
expected to approve theirs next month. The jurisdictions' delegations have yet
to schedule public hearings on the proposals.

goodmanc@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Alexandria-Arlington

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

County asks localities across Va. to follow it on immigration

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske

SECTION: Pg. T01

LENGTH: 704 words


Prince William County supervisors are calling on other localities in Virginia to
adopt an immigration policy similar to the one they put in place nearly three
years ago.

By a vote of 6 to 2, the Board of County Supervisors approved a policy statement
Tuesday that calls the county's immigration policy "effective" and says that
given its "successful implementation," it should be used by all law enforcement
agencies across the commonwealth. The statement was approved as part of the
board's legislative agenda.

Supervisors Frank J. Principi (D-Woodbridge) and Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles) cast
the dissenting votes, questioning whether the board was suggesting or requiring
jurisdictions to participate in immigration reform.

"This sounds like an unfunded mandate, and I know we don't appreciate unfunded
mandates," Principi said. "Our policy costs millions of dollars to implement,
and if that's the case, I'm not sure I want to be in the position to [authorize]
an unfunded mandate."

The legislative priority was initiated by board Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At
Large), who began a separate campaign this year to bring an immigration
crackdown to Virginia. Although the original goal of his campaign, dubbed
Virginia Rule of Law, was to have the state implement a policy similar to
Arizona's controversial law, Stewart said Wednesday that he would prefer that
the state adopt a policy similar to Prince William's and direct jurisdictions to
follow it.

"Yes, this costs money, and you could consider it an unfunded mandate, but the
reality is some things are worth it," Stewart said, noting he views illegal
immigration as an unfunded mandate. "I want the mandate. The message we want to
send is this policy worked for Prince William and it would be good on a
statewide basis."

The statement does not say Virginia should mandate that jurisdictions follow a
specific immigration policy. Instead, it says, the county supports the
implementation of similar policies and programs because they would "enhance
public safety across the Commonwealth."

Supervisor Michael C. May (R-Occoquan) said that if the board had asked the
state to create a uniform immigration policy jurisdictions had to follow, he
would want the state to fund it and reimburse Prince William for the millions it
has spent implementing its policy.

Adopted in 2007 and modified in 2008, Prince William's policy requires police
officers to check the immigration status of all people arrested on suspicion of
violating state or federal law. The original policy directed officers to check
the immigration status of people only if there was probable cause to believe
that they were in the country illegally.

Stewart said Del. Jackson H. Miller (R-Manassas) is drafting immigration
legislation for the General Assembly session that begins in January. Stewart
said that the legislation probably would pass the House but that the Senate
would be tricky. If it fails, Stewart predicted, it could become an election
issue.

Miller did not return calls seeking comment.

The board's action Tuesday came after supervisors were briefed on a University
of Virginia study that looked at the policy's implementation and impact. The
report said there was evidence the policy had had some effect because the
Hispanic noncitizen population in Prince William has decreased. The growth in
the county's overall Hispanic population also lags that in other jurisdictions.
The report also noted that it is hard to determine the policy's full effect
because the economic downturn and mortgage crisis coincided with its
implementation.

The report also says the policy created some initial distrust among Hispanics in
the county and that Hispanics outside the county are avoiding moving to Prince
William. Researchers said the policy did not affect most types of crime.
Although aggravated assaults and hit-and-runs dropped significantly, only 6
percent of those arrested for serious crimes in 2009 were illegal immigrants.

"I did toy with duplicating Arizona's law," Stewart said, "but now that Prince
William's law has been tried and tested and the study shows very few negative
impacts and a lot of positive impacts, I think we have the data needed" to
implement it across the state.

buskej@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 22, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Reversals by immigration officials are sowing mistrust

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 881 words


Months after Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano assured House
Democrats that jurisdictions could opt out of a controversial immigration
enforcement program, officials reversed themselves and said opting out was not
possible.

Weeks after quelling a growing furor on the right by announcing an investigation
into why an illegal immigrant who was driving drunk when he killed a nun in
Prince William County had not been deported after two previous convictions,
officials said they would not make the investigation's results public.

And hours after a senior official, who was publicly challenged last week by a
Maryland woman facing deportation, assured the woman that she had not been
picked up under a controversial immigration program, officials said the woman
had indeed been identified via the program, known as Secure Communities.

Advocates on both the right and the left say these and other incidents have
created a climate of mistrust in which immigration officials initially tell
people want they want to hear, only to antagonize them later when reality kicks
in.

Defenders of the administration say the problem is that officials have been
placed in the impossible position of enforcing laws that they themselves believe
are unfair and outdated.

"We have made a very high priority of transparency and candor," said Beth
Gibson, assistant deputy director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).
"We have posted all our policies online . . . we are operating openly and
forthrightly."

But months after assuring Congress that local jurisdictions could opt out of
Secure Communities - which runs fingerprints obtained by local police through a
national database to see whether they belong to illegal immigrants - officials
backtracked.

The letter Napolitano sent to Congress said, "a local law enforcement agency
that does not wish to participate in the Secure Communities deployment plan must
formally notify the Assistant Director for the Secure Communities program."

But what they meant, officials said, was only that communities could temporarily
postpone when they signed up for the program.

"If I were writing the sentence now, it would say, 'Jurisdictions cannot opt out
of Secure Communities, but we will work with you to mitigate your concerns,' "
Gibson said.

Walter Tejada, an Arlington County Board member who spearheaded a resolution for
the county to opt out of the program only to learn that it was impossible, said:
"If that had been the case why didn't they tell us in May? Why did we have to go
through all this hoopla?"

Similarly, after a public outcry in August over why officials had not deported
drunk driver Carlos Martinelly-Montano, officials at the Department of Homeland
Security promised an investigation.

Once the report was completed, officials said, they were not going to make the
results public. Spokesman Matthew Chandler said the findings would be shared
with Congress and local law enforcement. A senior official, speaking on the
condition of anonymity, previously said the report would not be publicly
released because of "law enforcement sensitivities."

"They say one thing and do another," Corey Stewart, chairman of the Prince
William Board of County Supervisors, complained recently about the federal
agency. "They say they are going to do something and then backtrack."

Last Thursday, when ICE Assistant Director David Venturella was confronted at a
Wilson Center event by a Hyattsville woman in deportation proceedings about the
Secure Communities program he heads, Venturella told Maria Bolanos that she had
not been targeted via the program. "You were not a Secure Communities referral
or a hit."

Hours later, agency spokesman Brian Hale e-mailed to say: "To clarify this
situation, Ms. Bolanos was in fact encountered through Secure Communities."

Bolanos was detained by immigration officials after she received an arrest
warrant for selling phone cards without a license. That charge stemmed from an
earlier call for help she made to police during a domestic dispute. An officer
who responded saw phone cards on her table and, believing she was selling them
illegally, issued a summons. The charge was soon dropped, but by then Bolanos's
fingerprints had gone to ICE via the Secure Communities program, and she was
detained and put into deportation proceedings.

Gibson said Venturella was only "trying to make a clear distinction that the
domestic violence call was not a direct cause of her coming into ICE custody."

"To me it is not news that someone from ICE is misrepresenting stuff," said
Gustavo Andrade, organizing director of CASA de Maryland, an immigration rights
group that is helping Bolanos.

Doris Meissner, a former immigration chief during the Clinton administration and
now a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, said the problem was that
Obama officials had found themselves in an impossible situation.

"On the one hand, they are embracing the idea that the laws need to be changed
and current laws are not up to the task," she said, referring to administration
pleas for an overhaul of the immigration system. "At the same time, it is their
responsibility as executive branch officials, as the responsible heads of
agencies, to implement the laws currently on the books."

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration reform or just politics?

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 770 words


Lots of people cheered this week when it was reported that Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had agreed to steer
comprehensive immigration reform through Congress by year's end. This is a bold,
exciting plan -- and if it works, it could be a game-changer.

But that's only if it leads to a genuine, bipartisan push for an overhaul. A
symbolic, partisan effort -- such as introducing a bill that cannot pass --
would be worse than no action at all and could set the cause back for years.

Congress has tried and failed to pass immigration reform twice in the past four
years. A failure this summer would make it much harder for lawmakers to try
again soon. Reformers have only one more shot before 2012 -- an opportunity they
must not waste.

President Obama is trying to jump-start the debate, calling several Republican
senators this week to gauge their interest in immigration. But the odds of
getting a bill through Congress this year are steep.

Even with Democratic majorities in both houses, it's going to take both
Democrats and Republicans to pass reform: Many moderate Democrats are just as
likely as Republicans to vote no. Voters across the country are angry at
incumbents. Unemployment is still hovering near 10 percent. And after the ordeal
of health care, few lawmakers in either party are in the mood to take another
controversial vote.

Neither Reid nor Pelosi has commented on the odds of success. But since Reid
declared he would move a bill (he made the surprise announcement this month at a
largely Latino rally in Nevada, where Latinos make up 15 percent of the vote),
many Democrats have jumped in to speak for him.

These supporters fall into two camps. Some, including leaders of the movement
for immigrant rights, argue that forcing consideration of a bill this year would
create momentum and draw Republicans into the debate -- and that some GOP
lawmakers, fearful of alienating Latino voters, will ultimately support reform.
As this group sees it, Reid is playing hardball with Republicans, but his
ultimate goal is passing a bipartisan bill.

A  second group of Democrats has offered a strikingly different, more cynical
calculus.

Listen to Markos Moulitsas of the Daily Kos: "Reid should push for a vote
whether he has the 60 [votes] or not. While the ultimate goal is reform, even a
losing vote would show Latinos where the opposition is coming from and help
motivate them for the November elections."

An unnamed Democratic Senate aide spoke even more bluntly to Roll Call last
week: "An all-Democratic bill works better . . . because the tea party and
right-wing will react strongly and permanently alienate Latinos."

In other words, some Democrats don't particularly care if no Republicans vote
for reform -- if anything, they welcome the opportunity to show up the GOP.

But that would do nothing to fix the country's broken immigration system. It
would not bring a single undocumented immigrant out of the shadows. It would not
create a workable, legal immigration system to serve U.S. interests during the
economic recovery and beyond. The way some activists see things, Democrats don't
need to deliver reform to please Latinos, the fastest-growing voting bloc in the
country. They just need to make Republicans look bad.

There is nothing new about this kind of political thinking. Most lawmakers fall
into one of two categories: those who want to solve problems and those whose
main concern is scoring political points.  When the second group wins, pressing
problems become perennial wedge issues -- issues we then give up on solving
because they're so potent on Election Day.

If it is difficult to move on immigration reform now, isn't the climate likely
to be worse in 2011? Many reformers think so. No one who believes we need to fix
immigration wants to wait. And Republicans will surely gain seats in November.

But contrary to conventional wisdom, Republican gains could actually create
incentives for bipartisanship on both sides of the aisle -- on immigration and
other issues. By early 2011, the economy would be growing and unemployment
ebbing. Obama would be under intense pressure to deliver for Latino voters. And
many Republicans, too, would want to fix the system and get immigration behind
them before a tumultuous presidential election year.

The mood in Washington is volatile, and Congress may well take up immigration
this year. But a partisan push that failed, or poisoned the well for the future,
would ultimately be far worse than no push at all.

The writer is president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a national federation of
employers advocating immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration reform must be bipartisan

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY

LENGTH: 784 words


Lots of people cheered this week when it was reported that Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had agreed to steer
comprehensive immigration reform through Congress by year's end. This is a bold,
exciting plan -- and if it works, it could potentially be a game-changer for
reform.

But that's only if it leads to a genuine, bipartisan push for an overhaul. A
symbolic, partisan effort -- such as introducing a bill that cannot pass --
would be worse than no action at all and could set the cause back for years.

Congress has tried and failed to pass immigration reform twice in the past four
years. A failure this summer would make it much harder for lawmakers to try
again soon. Reformers have only one more shot before 2012 -- an opportunity they
must not waste.

President Obama is trying to jump-start the debate, calling several Republican
senators this week to gauge their interest in immigration. But the odds of
getting a bill through Congress this year are steep.

Even with Democratic majorities in both houses, it's still going to take both
Democrats and Republicans to pass reform: Many moderate Democrats are just as
likely as Republicans to vote no. Voters across the country are angry at
incumbents. Unemployment is still hovering near 10 percent. And after the ordeal
of health care, few lawmakers in either party are in the mood to take another
controversial vote.

Neither Reid nor Pelosi has commented on the odds of success. But since Reid
declared he would move a bill (he made the surprise announcement earlier this
month at a largely Latino rally in Nevada, where Latinos make up 15 percent of
the vote), many Democrats have jumped in to speak for him.

These supporters fall into two camps. Some, including leaders of the movement
for immigrant rights, argue that forcing consideration of a bill this year would
create momentum and draw Republicans into the debate -- and that some GOP
lawmakers, fearful of alienating Latino voters, will ultimately support reform.
As this group sees it, Reid is playing hardball with Republicans, but his
ultimate goal is passing a bipartisan bill.

But a second group of Democrats has offered a strikingly different, more cynical
calculus.

Listen to Markos Moulitsas of the Daily Kos: "Reid should push for a vote
whether he has the 60 [votes] or not. While the ultimate goal is reform, even a
losing vote would show Latinos where the opposition is coming from and help
motivate them for the November elections."

An unnamed Democratic Senate aide spoke even more bluntly to Roll Call last
week: "An all-Democratic bill works better . . . because the tea party and
right-wing will react strongly and permanently alienate Latinos."

In other words, some Democrats don't particularly care if no Republicans end up
voting for reform -- if anything, they welcome the opportunity to show up the
GOP.

But that would do nothing to fix the country's broken immigration system. It
would not bring a single undocumented immigrant out of the shadows. It would not
create a workable, legal immigration system to serve U.S. interests during the
economic recovery and beyond. The way some activists see things, Democrats don't
need to deliver reform to please Latinos, the fastest-growing voting bloc in the
country. They just need to make Republicans look bad.

There is nothing new about this kind of political thinking. Most lawmakers fall
into one of two categories: those who want to solve problems and those whose
main concern is scoring political points. The trouble is what happens when the
second group wins. Pressing problems become perennial wedge issues -- issues we
then give up on solving because they're so potent on Election Day.

If it is difficult to move on immigration reform now, isn't the climate likely
to be worse in 2011? Many reformers think so. No one who believes we need to fix
immigration wants to wait. And Republicans will surely gain seats in November.

But contrary to conventional wisdom, Republican gains might well create
incentives for bipartisanship on both sides of the aisle -- on immigration and
other issues. By early 2011, the economy would be growing and unemployment
ebbing. President Obama would be under intense pressure to deliver for Latino
voters. And many Republicans, too, would want to fix the system and get
immigration behind them before a tumultuous presidential election year.

The mood in Washington is volatile, and Congress may well take up immigration
this year. But a partisan push that failed, or poisoned the well for the future,
would ultimately be far worse than no push at all.

The writer is president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a national federation of
employers advocating immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Climate legislation suffers setback;
Key Republican drops support Graham objects to immigration effort

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 763 words


The effort to enact comprehensive climate and energy legislation this year
suffered a critical blow Saturday when Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.), the key
Republican proponent of the bill, withdrew his support because of what he said
was a "cynical political" decision by Democrats to advance immigration
legislation first.

The move forced the other two authors of the climate and energy bill, Sens. John
F. Kerry (D-Mass.) and Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), to cancel a
much-anticipated news conference planned for Monday at which they were to unveil
the plan they negotiated with Graham.

Graham, who spent weeks working with Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) on an
immigration measure that will appeal to both parties, wrote in an open letter
Saturday to leaders of the climate effort, "Moving forward on immigration -- in
this hurried, panicked manner -- is nothing more than a cynical political ploy."

Late last week, Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) raised the idea of
bringing up immigration legislation before an energy bill, and President Obama
on Friday criticized Arizona's tough new immigration law and said Congress must
act on immigration or risk leaving the door open to "irresponsibility by
others."

In an interview, Graham said he has become convinced that Democrats have decided
to push for an immigration overhaul in an effort to mobilize Hispanic voters, a
key political bloc, and that only a focused effort on a climate and energy bill
could ensure its passage.

Democrats denied that election-related considerations were driving the focus on
immigration, and the White House, Reid, and Kerry and Lieberman said they would
continue to press ahead with the climate and energy effort.

Even so, Graham's departure greatly undermines Democrats' prospects of picking
up the handful of Republican votes needed for passage. "If Senator Graham leaves
the effort, a long shot becomes a no-shot," said Joe Stanko, who heads up
government relations for the law firm Hunton & Williams and represents several
industries that would face new federal regulation under a climate bill.

Graham said he did not see how the Senate could pass any climate and energy bill
this year if Senate Democratic leaders and President Obama pushed for
immigration reform, as they suggested they would last week.

"The political environment that we needed to have a chance [to pass the bill]
has been completely destroyed" by the push for immigration reform, Graham said.
"What was hard has become impossible. I don't mind doing hard things. I just
don't want to do impossible and stupid things."

He said he had spoken to Reid on Saturday and warned him that he would bolt
unless he was assured that the Senate would take up energy legislation first.
"What's happened here is mid-terms are on us and Harry Reid's in a state with a
heavy Hispanic vote," Graham said.

In a statement, Reid said he will not allow Graham "to play one issue off of
another, and neither will the American people."

"As I have said, I am committed to trying to enact comprehensive clean energy
legislation this session of Congress. Doing so will require strong bipartisan
support and energy could be next if it's ready," Reid said. "I have also said we
will try to pass comprehensive immigration reform. This, too, will require
bipartisan support and significant committee work that has not yet begun."

Reid spokesman Jim Manley called the suggestion that Reid had factored political
considerations into his scheduling "absolutely ridiculous."

"At the beginning of this Congress, Senator Reid considered immigration reform
among the Senate's top priorities, and it continues to be a high priority for
him. Nothing has changed, except that maybe the situation in Arizona again
highlights why we need to fix our broken immigration system," he said.

The White House declined to indicate whether it would address Graham's concerns,
issuing a statement by climate and energy czar Carol M. Browner saying: "We
believe the only way to make progress on these priorities is to continue working
as we have thus far in a bipartisan manner to build more support for both
comprehensive energy independence and immigration reform legislation."

Kerry said he would continue to press for passage of comprehensive climate
legislation.

"Joe and I will continue to work together and are hopeful that Lindsey will
rejoin us once the politics of immigration are resolved," he said in a
statement. "The White House and Senate leadership have told us . . . that this
is the year for action, and until they tell us otherwise we're pressing
forward."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Scott J. Ferrell/congressional Quarterly; Senate colleagues,
from left, John F. Kerry, Lindsey O. Graham and Joseph I. Lieberman had been
working on climate legislation. Kerry and Lieberman say they will press ahead
without the Republican.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Both sides in immigration fight criticize Washington;
Inaction by Congress blamed for making Arizona law possible

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1018 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


On the grounds of the Capitol, in a state that only days earlier had adopted the
nation's strictest anti-immigration law, the two sides of an angry debate are
united on one thing: They blame Washington.

Years of congressional inaction and paralysis on immigration created a vacuum
that either forced the Arizona legislature to step in or allowed overzealous
lawmakers to trump federal authority, depending on whom you ask.

The law is injecting new life into the election-year debate over an issue felt
strongly in the states, particularly along the Mexican border, even as Congress
appears to be at an impasse over whether  to consider a complex immigration bill
before facing voters this fall.

President Obama came to office promising a broad overhaul of laws governing
border security and how illegal immigrants are treated after they arrive in the
United States. But he must decide how far to push the issue in the face of a
legislative calendar  crowded with a pending Supreme Court nomination and
fights over financial regulation and the sweeping energy reform policy known as
cap and trade. Democrats and Republicans are torn, with Senate Majority Leader
Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) urging action ahead of his difficult reelection fight but
others unmoved.

Three days after Gov. Jan Brewer (R) signed the bill, the parched grass
surrounding the Capitol remained a political staging ground for both sides. A
young woman in a "Legalize Arizona" T-shirt vied for attention with a man
carrying a sign that read "You are an Illigal Immigrant in my Country."

The law gives local police broad authority to stop and request documents from
anyone they reasonably suspect is an illegal immigrant. It calls for aggressive
prosecution of illegal immigrants, and officers can be sued if they do not
enforce the law.

Opponents are vowing a federal lawsuit, and some Democrats are calling for an
economic boycott of the state, drawing a rebuke from Republicans. Phoenix Mayor
Phil Gordon (D) said:  "This is dividing our city and our state. It's tearing us
apart."

A vigil kept by opponents of the new law stretched into another night, while
former congressman J.D. Hayworth, a border security hawk, used the domed Capitol
as a backdrop to file his formal primary challenge against  Sen. John McCain
(R-Ariz.).

"Stop the hate," read a handmade sign carried by a Mexican-born U.S. citizen.

"Silent no more," said a sign carried by a transplant from Chicago who said he
is fed up with Mexican immigrants.

Brewer, who signed the bill Friday, said the legislature had no choice but to
assert itself in the absence of federal legislation addressing the tide sweeping
across her state. The long border with Mexico remains porous despite significant
increases in patrols, and Arizona is home to about 450,000 illegal immigrants.

"We in Arizona have been more than patient waiting for Washington to act,"
Brewer said. "But decades of federal inaction and misguided policy have created
a dangerous and unacceptable situation."

Obama criticized the Arizona law and said he would ask the Justice Department to
study it for potential civil rights violations. Yet he, too, acknowledged the
past failure to grapple with the issue effectively, predicting "misguided
efforts" in other states "if we continue to fail to act at the federal level."

Even if Congress were to take up reform, it remains  hard to discern which path
would satisfy the opposing activists who gathered in the 90-degree heat.

"The culture is being destroyed. You call anywhere, it's 'Push one for English,
two for Spanish.' All it does is make it easier for people to live here once
they sneak into the country" said Gary Arbitter, who supports the new law and
carried the "Silent no more" sign.

Dentist Blaine Brimley agreed. He said there has been too much fear-mongering
and too little understanding of the new law, which will go into effect in fewer
than 90 days if no court blocks it.

"I just saw a shirt that said 'Shame on Arizona,' " he said, protesting that the
state is simply strengthening its laws and enforcing them. "They're not going to
do profiling. They're only going to talk to people for traffic violations or
something else."

Obama, a former constitutional law professor who, as an Illinois state senator,
helped pass a law prohibiting racial profiling,  said Arizona's policy threatens
"to undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as Americans."

Yet supporters of the measure said  Arizona Republicans -- only one Republican
voted against the bill; all Democrats opposed it -- rightly stepped into a
vacuum.

"If [Obama] was doing his job, Arizona would not need to pass this law and
Governor Brewer wouldn't need to sign it," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform. "This has been brewing in Arizona
for some time."

On that point, Melanie Nelson, a leader of the Pima County Interfaith Council,
agreed. She opposes the law and predicts negative consequences, including harm
to  businesses and employers and a decline in police cooperation from worried
immigrants.

Citing a recent poll that showed support for the law, she said:  "People are
very frustrated. There's even more tension because there's nothing happening at
the federal level."

Outside the Capitol, Ross Canyon addressed a group of young protesters chanting
"SÃ­, se puede," or "Yes, we can," the motto of the United Farm Workers. That
slogan was later adopted by reformers who favor a path to citizenship for the
nation's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants. "People don't like the idea
that they will be stopped and carded because of their skin color," said Canyon,
a Navajo born in Arizona. "I've had the sheriff stop me, and I'm not from the
other side of the border."

Alfonso Garnica, who wore the "Stop the hate" sandwich board, predicted that
police, already overburdened, would resort to profiling and called on the
federal government to  step in.

"They're going to start messing with us, pulling us over and asking for ID. We
don't like that," Garnica, an unemployed driver, said. "We're going to have to
fight it until we get rid of it."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; John Moore/getty Images; Opponents of Arizona's new immigration
law protest outside the state Capitol in Phoenix. The parched grounds remained a
staging area for both sides of the debate days after the measure was signed into
law.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Stalled front;
A climate change bill shouldn't take a back seat to immigration reform.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 423 words


IS THE Senate climate bill doomed?  It certainly took a hit Saturday, when Sen.
Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), hitherto the bill's lone Republican backer,
threatened to abandon the effort. Mr. Graham, who had worked with Sens. John F.
Kerry (D-Mass.) and Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.) for months on the bill,
derided Democratic leaders for opening the way to take up immigration reform
before the climate bill, calling the move "a cynical political ploy" and
claiming that it endangered the climate effort. He has a point.

Painstaking negotiations on the substance of a compromise climate bill are
nearly complete. Mr. Graham, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lieberman have gone to
extraordinary lengths to attract a coalition of supporters, including
environmental groups, electric utilities, businesses, the Christian Coalition
and even oil companies. Fence-sitting senators concerned about the bill's
effects on manufacturing and American competitiveness seem to be coming around
to the idea of pricing carbon. This emerging coalition, backers claim, is still
behind the bill.

In contrast, there is no comparable groundwork that would lead to an immigration
bill's passage. But at least some Democrats say they believe the politics of
immigration reform are more favorable to them than the politics of climate
legislation. House Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) faces a tough
reelection battle, where a sizable Hispanic population wants to see him make an
effort to achieve reform. We understand the politics, and we support immigration
reform. If it's possible to accomplish something this year, great. But Mr. Reid
and the White House should not allow immigration to push climate change so far
down the calendar that it becomes impossible for the Senate to take up. And all
parties -- including Mr. Graham -- should keep in mind that the politics of
climate change are likely to be harder next year, when Democratic majorities
will probably be slimmer. Defeat or postponement now could fracture the
coalition behind the effort.

Politics aside, it's past time that Congress dealt with climate change.
Businesses face stifling uncertainty about the shape of inevitable climate
legislation. World leaders wonder when America will finally lead on global
warming. And every year Congress waits to legislate, adequately curbing
emissions will get harder and more expensive. Any comprehensive climate bill
will require the support of at least a few Republicans to pass. We hope Mr.
Graham and his Democratic partners find a way not to miss this opportunity.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

The loneliest senator

BYLINE: Ruth Marcus

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 756 words


It isn't easy being a caucus of one.

Sometimes you don't even agree with yourself.

Just last month, South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham -- the Senate
Democrats' indispensable man on immigration reform -- was insisting that
President Obama "step it up" on immigration if he hoped to see results.

Just last weekend, Graham -- the Senate Democrats' indispensable man on climate
change -- pulled the plug on an about-to-be unveiled bipartisan energy bill
because, he said, there was too much focus on immigration. Graham denounced the
"hurried, panicked" shift to immigration as "a cynical political ploy." By
Monday night, he was demanding assurances from Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
that immigration be tabled for the year.

Perhaps not coincidentally, Reid is in a tough reelection race in a state with a
large, and so far largely unmotivated, Hispanic population.

You could understand why Reid would be vowing to move on immigration reform,
even if no package is close to ready -- and even if he can't count 50 votes for
reform, much less 60. You could also understand why, having barely gotten health
reform through, he might not be anxious to bring up an energy bill certain to be
assailed as another governmental intrusion into the economy.

Perhaps not coincidentally, Graham's closest friend in the Senate, John McCain
of Arizona, is in a tough reelection race in a state with a large number of
illegal immigrants, a noxious new immigration law -- and a primary opponent
flaying McCain for his previous squishiness on the topic.

You could understand why Graham might want to spare recovering maverick McCain
from an immigration debate. And you could understand why Graham, censured by
three chapters of the South Carolina Republican Party for fraternizing with
Democrats, might want to ease some of the heat he's been taking for pushing
"Grahamnesty."

Until recently, at least, Graham has reveled in his role as the Republican Man
to See: breaking ranks to be the only Republican on the Senate Judiciary
Committee to back Supreme Court nominee Sonia Sotomayor; negotiating with John
Kerry and Joe Lieberman on climate change; dickering with Chuck Schumer on
immigration; horse-trading with Rahm Emanuel on closing Guantanamo and trying
terrorist detainees.

Graham has managed to carve out political space for this admirable unorthodoxy,
sacrificing some support among his state's Republican base but making it up by
attracting independent and Democratic voters.

The disturbing question is whether this remains a safe path in a Tea Party era
when political line-crossers such as Florida Gov. Charlie Crist are endangered
and even stalwart conservatives such as Utah Sen. Robert Bennett have to worry
about primary challenges from the right.

In South Carolina, the attacks on Graham have gotten increasingly ugly. Graham
"has shown incredible courage," a senior administration official told me before
the recent eruption. "He has willingly taken on party orthodoxy at his own
political peril. Thank God he's not up until 2014."

Given the risks he has taken and the time he has put in on climate change,
Graham's frustration is understandable. His political analysis -- that the new
focus on immigration reform has more to do with electoral politics than any
realistic hope of getting legislation passed -- is spot-on.

Immigration reform is hard even with extensive groundwork; this is why the
president -- at Graham's behest -- has been phoning around in an effort to find
a second Republican to join the cause. Forcing senators to take a preelection
stunt vote risks hardening positions for the future. Climate change is hardly
easier, but the moment, at least, is riper, with an unlikely array of backers
from business to the Christian Coalition to environmental groups.

Nonetheless, there was something outsized about Graham's dramatic public
pullout. Immigration wasn't about to leapfrog ahead of climate change on the
Senate floor; there's no bill ready to move.

Was Graham shielding McCain? Was he looking for an excuse -- in the wake of
accusations that the measure would include a "gas tax" -- to get out of the
climate debate? Was it just getting too uncomfortable being "a caucus unto
himself," as an administration official described Graham?

I hope the weekend's flare-up is a minor rift, quickly mended. Because the
Senate badly needs more people with Graham's combination of energy, pragmatism
and courage. A Senate without a Graham in the fray would be even more
dysfunctional. Which is saying something.

marcusr@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Alex Wong/getty Images; Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), left, at a
news conference with Sen. John F. Kerry (D-Mass.).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

The immigration debate heats up

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 415 words


Regarding the April 27 editorial "Stalled front":

The irony of Democratic efforts to push so-called comprehensive immigration
reform ahead of climate change in hopes of catching a political wave against
Arizona's strict new immigration law is that even if climate change legislation
becomes law, amnesty will undermine its impact.

The reason is simple. The Pew Research Center projects that the U.S. population,
now 308 million, will grow to 438 million by 2050. Four-fifths of that growth
will be the result of mass immigration, including children born to immigrants.
The average immigrant's greenhouse gas emissions rise four-fold after he or she
arrives in the United States.

Sadly, by pushing immigration in this manner, President Obama will lose a large
chunk of political capital, further reducing the probability of passing climate
change legislation. That's because Americans strongly oppose comprehensive
immigration reform. Even Americans of Hispanic descent oppose it, 52 to 34
percent, according to a recent Zogby poll.

David C. Holzman, Lexington, Mass.

--

I resent Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon's remarks ["A hateful law obscures the real
Arizona," op-ed, April 24] calling those responsible for the state's new
immigration law "bitter, small-minded and full of hate." Mr. Gordon has
mischaracterized the majority of Arizona citizens, and he has misrepresented
himself as a spokesman for the majority.

Arizona legislators enacted this law to protect the safety of Arizona citizens
and to stop the negative impact on taxpayers  caused by costs incurred in
providing health-care, education and law enforcement services to immigrants who
are in this country illegally. Neither misguided nor small-minded, the Arizona
legislators have shown courage in attacking  this problem in a direct legal way.

Patricia Hance, Phoenix

--

President Obama called the new Arizona immigration bill "misguided." It is far
more than misguided. At a news conference, Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) could not
say what someone who is in this country illegally looks like. If she can't, how
can  Arizona police officers? Will the police stop people with accents  and ask
them for their papers? Will the police imprison people from foreign countries if
they don't have their papers on them? Do people in Arizona or traveling through
Arizona have to carry their passports, visas or birth/naturalization
certificates at all times?

How many innocent people will be arrested before this law is repealed?

Susan Jones Kang, Richmond

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Reid amends his pledge for fast action on immigration;
Original plan drew criticism GOP negotiator Graham abandoned effort

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray and Anne E. Kornblut

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 851 words


Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid backed off Tuesday from his pledge to
fast-track an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, after fellow Democrats
voiced skepticism and a key Republican supporter abandoned the effort.

Meanwhile, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said the Justice Department may
sue Arizona over a new state law that authorizes police to question the
immigration status of anyone they suspect of being in the country illegally.
"I'm very concerned about the wedge it could draw between communities that law
enforcement is supposed to serve and those of us in law enforcement," Holder
said.

Reid (D), who is facing a tough reelection battle in his home state of Nevada,
surprised the White House and many of his Capitol Hill colleagues April 10 when
he said that a broad immigration bill "cannot wait." He told a cheering crowd in
Las Vegas, "We're going to have comprehensive immigration reform now."

That angered Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.), the chief GOP negotiator on
immigration, who accused Reid of engaging in a "cynical political ploy" to win
Hispanic votes, given that the House has not even called up an immigration bill.
Graham withdrew his support from a separate climate-change proposal that he had
been prepared to endorse, and on Tuesday, he announced that he would oppose any
immigration measure until U.S. border security had been improved.

With the fate of two Democratic priorities suddenly thrown into question, Reid
said Tuesday that he would not dictate the sequencing of the two measures. He
added that both remained on the horizon after the Senate concludes its current
debate on financial regulations.

"If you have a bill that's ready to go, that's the one I'm going to go to" after
the Senate concludes its current debate on financial regulations, Reid said. But
he added, "Immigration and energy are equally vital to our economic and national
security, and we've ignored both of them for far too long. I'm committed to
doing both this session of Congress."

But other Democrats, including senior Obama administration officials, concede
privately that an immigration bill is unlikely to move forward in 2010. They
fret about the political cost in November should a Democratic-controlled Senate
try and fail to pass a bill.

Graham met last month with President Obama to discuss immigration legislation,
and he and Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) drafted what they called "a
framework for action on immigration."

But he suggested Tuesday during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing that the
prudent course is to go slowly. Congress could pass a comprehensive bill, he
said, "by 2012 if we're smart, and we address the big elephant in the room, and
that is that our borders are broken and there's a war going on," a reference to
the rampant drug-related violence that has gripped Mexico.

He added that, while he  opposes the Arizona law, it  reflects legitimate public
anger. "Good people are so afraid of an out-of-control border that they had to
resort to a law that I think is unconstitutional -- it doesn't represent the
best way forward," Graham said.

Some Democrats have wondered privately whether Graham's new, go-slow position on
immigration is a favor  in behalf of Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), a friend. The
onetime GOP presidential nominee is locked in a taut primary fight, and a
Washington debate over immigration legislation is the last thing he wants right
now. But GOP consultant John Weaver, who is close to both men, insists that
Graham is not doing McCain's bidding.

Reid accused Republicans such as Graham and McCain of abandoning their moderate
stances on immigration in response to conservative pressure. "Republicans can't
have it both ways," Reid said. "They can't be passing laws like they did in
Arizona and making all the statements they're making in Arizona and around the
country blaming it on Washington, and then we have senators from Arizona and
Lindsey Graham who don't want us to move to the legislation."

Despite declining prospects for a bipartisan deal, Schumer has scheduled
meetings for Wednesday and Thursday with a handful of other Republicans, to
gauge their support. "We're moving along," Schumer said. "You will see some
things happening."

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told Graham and other lawmakers at
Tuesday's hearing that the Southern border "is as secure as it has ever been."
She noted that the federal government has met security demands voiced by
lawmakers in 2006 and 2007, when Congress last considered an immigration
overhaul.

For example, Napolitano said, the number of Border Patrol agents has doubled to
20,000 since 2002, including 4,000 in Arizona. The number of illegal border
crossers in Arizona caught by the Border Patrol has dropped by half since 2000,
although the agency now makes more arrests there than in any other state.

"One of the questions we need to talk about is whether securing the border is
ever going to be reached in the sense of Congress, or whether that goal post is
going to keep moving," she said.

Staff writers Spencer S. Hsu and Michael D. Shear contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Obama's fatal flinch on immigration

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 788 words


Air Force One was about seven miles over Appalachia this week when President
Obama dropped a bomb on his party.

Senate Democrats had that very day circulated an immigration reform proposal,
and the Associated Press, receiving a leaked copy, reported on the "draft
legislation."

But as Obama returned to Washington from Illinois Wednesday night, he walked
back to the press cabin on the presidential aircraft and, in an impromptu Q&A,
essentially declared immigration reform dead. He said "there may not be an
appetite" for it.

Obama's retreat -- after encouraging senators only weeks ago to take up
immigration reform -- clotheslined Senate Democrats. Since their proposal had
already been leaked, they had no choice but to go ahead with the rollout of the
plan Obama had just doomed. "I don't know in what context the statement was made
last night," Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid told reporters at Thursday
night's rollout.

Well, Mr. Leader, the context is fear. As the Arizona abomination makes clear,
there is a desperate need for federal immigration action to stop the country
from  turning into a nation of vigilantes suspicious of anybody with dark skin.
But leaders on both sides have instead run for the hills, called there by the
yodels from their respective extremes.

The most tragic case is that of John McCain, who once nobly led the fight for
immigration reform but now, cowering in the face of a conservative primary
threat, endorses Arizona's racial profiling plan. On the Democratic side, Reid
has been in headless-chicken mode. In need of Latino votes in his Senate
reelection bid, he promised he would move immediately to pass immigration
reform, then reversed himself, then floated the "framework" with no promise of
action.

Obama, meanwhile, afraid of breaking his campaign promise to take up immigration
legislation during his first year, tried to juggle immigration reform and
climate change legislation -- and now he may wind up with neither. The lone
Republican supporter of both efforts, Sen. Lindsey Graham (S.C.), has for the
moment pulled out of both, justifiably feeling that he's been jerked around by
Reid's maneuverings and Obama's mixed signals.

The whole episode is a reminder of what works and what doesn't about Obama's
management style. When he engages forcefully, as he did in the final month of
the health-care debate, the results are good. But when he hesitates and leaves
matters to Congress, the results are poor.

After the extended health-care fight kept immigration off the agenda last year,
Obama assured immigration groups in March that he would get it done this year.
He summoned to the White House Graham and Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) who had
been negotiating in good faith on an immigration proposal.

The two senators, at the president's urging, published an op-ed in The Post on
March 19 outlining their plan, and Obama endorsed the idea. Then, in the absence
of forceful leadership from the White House, it all fell apart. Obama called
five Republican senators to lobby them on the immigration bill (Schumer and
Graham told him they couldn't proceed without a second Republican sponsor) but
came up empty. Reid, meanwhile, went rogue, proposing without consulting Graham
to take up immigration before the climate bill. Graham, piqued, abandoned the
Democrats on both pieces of legislation.

The president could have made a major push for reform (always a difficult
prospect in an election year), or he could have told immigration advocates they
had to wait until 2011 (which would have antagonized a key voting bloc). But
instead, he left a vacuum. This may sound familiar to those who watched Obama's
handling of another thorny issue -- the "public option" in the health-care
debate. He neither made an all-out push (which would have been politically
perilous) nor ruled it out (which would have angered liberal groups) -- a stance
that resulted in months of disarray in Congress.

The immigration vacillation led to Thursday night's humiliation in the Capitol,
where Reid and his colleagues unveiled their dead-on-arrival proposal. They
played down the rollout as best they could -- and happened to walk before the
cameras at the exact moment that Florida Gov. Charlie Crist was announcing his
independent run for the Senate. In questioning, Reid admitted that, without
Republican help, "we're not going to have a bill on the floor."

The White House, trying to repair the damage, issued a statement calling the
plan "a very important step." For those thirsting for strong presidential
leadership, it was too little, too late.

danamilbank@washpost.com

Dana Milbank will be online to chat with readers on Monday at noon. Submit your
questions and comments before or during the discussion.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 440 words

IMMIGRATION

Thousands to protest for overhaul bill

Thousands of labor, civil rights and immigration activists plan to stage
demonstrations nationwide Saturday, renewing their effort to pressure Congress
into taking up comprehensive immigration legislation.

The May 1 protests have been an annual ritual on behalf of immigration rights
since 2006, when hundreds of thousands of people, in cities from coast to coast,
turned out to urge Congress to grant legal status to undocumented immigrants in
the United States.

The issue has gained renewed interest since the signing last week of a law in
Arizona, the toughest in the nation, that among other things makes it a state
crime to lack immigration papers.

The Service Employees International Union, one of the nation's most politically
powerful labor organizations, is staging 16 demonstrations on Saturday,
including one in the District. The rally will begin at 1 p.m. at Lafayette
Square.

-- Philip Rucker

Ariz. faces boycott calls over new law

 Arizona is facing a backlash over its new law cracking down on illegal
immigrants, with opponents pushing for a tourism boycott like the one that was
used to punish the state 20 years ago for its refusal to honor the Rev. Martin
Luther King Jr. with a holiday. By the time voters finally passed a holiday bill
two years later, estimates of lost convention business in the Phoenix area alone
topped $190 million.

"The goal is to as quickly as possible bring to a shocking stop the economy of
Arizona," former state senator Alfredo Gutierrez said Friday as a coalition
called Boycott Arizona announced its formation.

Groups have called on people not to fly Tempe-based US Airways or rent trucks
from Phoenix-based U-Haul. A New York congressman and others are urging Major
League Baseball to move the 2011 All Star Game out of Phoenix. The cities of San
Francisco and Los Angeles have talked of cutting off deals with the state and
its businesses.

-- Associated Press

Blagojevich judge won't subpoena Obama: A federal judge refused Friday to
approve a subpoena calling for President Obama to testify at the political
corruption trial of former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich. The request from
Blagojevich's attorneys fell "very short of authorizing a subpoena for the
president," U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel said.

Florida Republican retiring from Congress: Florida Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite (R)
announced Friday that she would leave Congress at the end of this term, saying:
"I have been troubled by persistent health problems and have come to the
disappointing and sad conclusion that I cannot run for reelection."

-- From staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; M. Spencer Green/associated Press; ILLINOIS Andrew Zimmerman
watches Jim, a 15-year-old grizzly bear, swim in a pool in the new Great Bear
Wilderness exhibit at the Brookfield Zoo. The 7.5-acre exhibit opens May 8.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Obama puts immigration reform on table

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 154 words


President Obama said at a White House reception Wednesday that he wants "to
begin work this year" on comprehensive immigration reform, warning the audience
that securing the legislation will be difficult but possible.

Addressing an audience celebrating Cinco de Mayo in the Rose Garden, Obama said,
"America's diversity is America's strength." That, he added, is why he has
spoken out against Arizona's recently passed immigration law, which has raised
concerns about racial profiling.

"We can't start singling out people because of who they look like," he said to
applause. "That's why we have to close the door on this kind of misconceived
action by meeting our obligations here in Washington."

Obama suggested recently that immigration reform would not be possible this
year, drawing some criticism. His comments Wednesday appeared to reinforce the
view that passing a bill this year is most likely impossible.

-- Scott Wilson

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Customs chief neglected to file forms on household workers;
New commissioner says legal status was verified for all employees

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 381 words


Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Alan D. Bersin said Thursday he
didn't know he's required by law to file paperwork verifying that his household
employees were authorized to work in the United States.

Bersin told senators that he and his wife tracked the immigration status of a
nanny, house cleaners and babysitters "on a piece of paper that was on file in
our home."

"No employee ineligible to work in the United States has ever worked in our
household," Bersin said. "No employee who has worked in our household has not
had taxes paid for."

According to a memo by the Senate Finance Committee, Bersin has employed 10
household employees since 1993 and failed to complete I-9 forms for all of them.
The I-9 form is issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which
shares immigration enforcement responsibilities with CBP and Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

President Obama nominated Bersin in September and issued a recess appointment
for him and 14 other nominees in March. Obama said all of the nominees would
remain in the Senate for confirmation.

The Finance Committee considered Bersin's nomination Thursday, but Chairman Max
Baucus (D-Mont.) told Bersin that his failure to file the paperwork was
"unacceptable."

"Part of the agency's responsibilities is to secure our borders. To credibly
enforce the law, you must first follow the law," Baucus said, adding later that
Bersin's term "will expire at the end of the next session." Nominees installed
during a congressional recess serve until the end of the next congressional
session, meaning Bersin's term will expire in late 2011 if the Senate does not
confirm him.

Bersin previously served as Obama's U.S.-Mexico border czar, advising Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano on border security matters. The former
California education secretary, San Diego schools superintendent and
private-practice lawyer also served as a U.S. attorney during the Clinton
administration. He maintains the full support of the White House.

"Mr. Bersin has responded honestly and candidly to all questions from Committee
staff," White House spokesman Nicholas Shapiro said in an e-mail. "He has
displayed the integrity and forthrightness that have been hallmarks of his
career in government, academia, and the private sector."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Alan D. Bersin leads Customs and Border Protection.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

A suicidal stand on Hispanics

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 816 words


Has the Republican Party become, as Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid recently
charged, the "anti-immigrant party"?

The accusation is overbroad. Republicans (and others) who are offended by chaos
at the southern border, who are concerned about the strains illegal immigration
places on public services and who believe enforcement should precede
comprehensive reform are not necessarily "anti-immigrant."

Reid has an interest in painting with the broadest possible brush to motivate
Hispanic supporters in his own, uphill reelection campaign.

But it would be absurd to deny that the Republican ideological coalition
includes elements that are anti-immigrant -- those who believe that Hispanics,
particularly Mexicans, are a threat to American culture and identity. When
Arizona Republican Senate candidate J.D. Hayworth calls for a moratorium on
legal immigration from Mexico, when then-Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) refers to
Miami as a "Third World country," when state Rep. Russell Pearce (R), one of the
authors of the Arizona immigration law, says Mexicans' and Central Americans'
"way of doing business" is different, Latinos can reasonably assume that they
are unwelcome in certain Republican circles.

The intensity of these Republican attitudes is evident not just from what
activists say but also from what Republican leaders are being forced to say.
Sen. John McCain, a long-term supporter of humane, comprehensive immigration
reform, has run a commercial feeding fears of "drug and human smuggling, home
invasions, murder" by illegal immigrants.

Never mind that the level of illegal immigration is down in Arizona or that
skyrocketing crime rates along the border are a myth. McCain's tag line --
"Complete the danged fence" -- will rank as one of the most humiliating
capitulations in modern political history.

Ethnic politics is symbolic and personal. Democratic presidential candidate John
F. Kennedy gained African American support by calling Coretta Scott King while
her husband was in prison. Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater
lost support by voting against the Civil Rights Act of 1964. A generation of
African American voters never forgot either gesture.

Republicans have now sent three clear signals to Hispanic voters:

California's Proposition 187, which was passed in 1994 and attempted to deny
illegal immigrants health care and public education before being struck down in
court; the immigration debate of 2006, dominated by strident Republican
opponents of reform; and now the Arizona immigration law. According to a 2008
study by the Pew Hispanic Center, 49 percent of Hispanics said that Democrats
had more concern for people of their background; 7 percent believed this was
true of Republicans. Since the Arizona controversy, this gap can only have
grown. In a matter of months, Hispanic voters in Arizona have gone from being
among the most pro-GOP in the nation to being among the most hostile.

Immigration issues are emotional and complex. But this must be recognized for
what it is: political suicide. Consider that Hispanics  make up 40 percent of
the K-12 students in Arizona, 44 percent in Texas, 47 percent in California, 54
percent in New Mexico. Whatever temporary gains Republicans might make feeding
resentment of this demographic shift, the party identified with that resentment
will eventually be voted into singularity. In a matter of decades, the
Republican Party could cease to be a national party.

Even describing this reality invites scorn from those who regard immigration as
a matter of principle instead of politics. But this represents a deep
misunderstanding of politics itself. In America, political ideals are carried by
parties. Republicans who are pro-business and pro-life, support a strong
national defense and oppose deficit spending depend on one another to achieve
influence. Each of these convictions alienates someone -- pro-choice voters,
economic liberals, pacifists. But Republican activists who alienate not an
issue-group but an influential, growing ethnic group are a threat to every other
constituency. The vocal faction of anti-immigrant Republicans is not merely part
of a coalition; it will eventually make it impossible for anyone else in that
coalition to succeed at the national level.

The good news for Republicans is that Hispanics tend to be entrepreneurial and
socially conservative. While the general image Hispanics hold of the GOP is
poor, individual Republican candidates can make significant inroads. In
presidential elections, Hispanic support can swing widely. In 1996, Bill Clinton
got 72 percent of the Hispanic vote. In 2004, John Kerry's support was in the
50s. And Republicans do not need to win a majority of the Latino vote to compete
nationally, just a competitive minority of that vote.

But even this modest goal is impossible if Hispanic voters feel targeted rather
than courted.

mgerson@globalengage.org

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Outlawing heritage

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 779 words


At least we don't have to pretend anymore. Arizona's passing of that
mean-spirited immigration law wasn't about high-minded principle or the need to
maintain public order. Apparently, it was all about putting Latinos in their
place.

It's hard to reach any other conclusion given the state's latest swipe at
Latinos. On Tuesday, Gov. Jan Brewer signed a measure making it illegal for any
course in the public schools to "advocate ethnic solidarity." Arizona's top
education official, Tom Horne, fought for the new law as a weapon against a
program in Tucson that teaches Mexican American students about their history and
culture.

Horne claims the Tucson classes teach "ethnic chauvinism." He has complained
that young Mexican Americans are falsely being led to believe that they belong
to an oppressed minority. The way to dispel that notion, it seems, is to pass
oppressive new legislation aimed squarely at Mexican Americans. That'll teach
the kids a lesson, all right: We have power. You don't.

Arizona is already facing criticism and boycotts over its "breathing while
Latino" law, which in essence requires police to identify and jail undocumented
immigrants. Now the state adds insult to that injury.

The education bill begins with a bizarre piece of nonsense, making it illegal
for public or charter schools to offer courses that "promote the overthrow of
the United States government." Then it shifts from weird to offensive,
prohibiting classes that "promote resentment toward a race or class of people,"
that "are designed primarily for pupils of a particular ethnic group," and that
"advocate ethnic solidarity instead of the treatment of pupils as individuals."
When you try to parse those words, the effect is chilling.

Is it permissible, under the new law, to teach basic history? More than half the
students in the Tucson Unified School District are Latino, the great majority of
them Mexican American. The land that is now Arizona once belonged to Mexico.
Might teaching that fact "promote resentment" among students of Mexican descent?
What about a class that taught students how activists fought to end
discrimination against Latinos in Arizona and other Western states? Would that
illegally encourage students to resent the way their parents and grandparents
were treated?

The legislation has an answer: Mexican American students, it seems, should not
be taught to be proud of their heritage.

This angry anti-Latino spasm in Arizona is only partly about illegal
immigration, which has fallen substantially in the past few years. It's really
about fear and denial.

About 30 percent of the state's population is Latino, and that number continues
to rise. This demographic shift has induced culture shock among some Arizonans
who see the old Anglo power structure losing control. It is evidently
threatening, to some people, that Mexican Americans would see themselves as a
group with common interests and grievances -- and even more threatening that
they might see themselves as distant heirs to the men and women who lived in
Arizona long before the first Anglos arrived.

To counter the threat, solidarity among Mexican Americans has to be
delegitimized. The group itself has to be atomized -- has to be taught to see
itself as a population of unaffiliated individuals. The social, cultural and
historical ties that have united people across the border since long before
there was a border must be denied.

Every minority group's struggle for acceptance is distinctive, but I can't avoid
hearing echoes of the Jim Crow era in the South. Whites went to great lengths to
try to keep "agitators" from awakening African Americans' sense of pride and
injustice. They failed, just as the new Arizona law will fail.

It's important to distinguish between Arizona officials' legitimate concerns and
their illegitimate ones. The state does have a real problem with illegal
immigration, and the federal government has ignored its responsibility to enact
comprehensive reform that would make the border more secure. But Arizona is
lashing out with measures that will not just punish the undocumented but also
negatively affect Mexican American citizens whose local roots are generations
deep.

The new education law is gratuitous and absurd. Arizona can't be picked up and
moved to the Midwest; it's next to Mexico. There have always been families and
traditions that straddle the two societies, and there always will be. Mexican
Americans are inevitably going to feel proud of who they are and where they came
from -- even if acknowledging and encouraging such pride in the classroom are
against the law.

You know kids. They'll just learn it in the street.

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; John Moore/getty Images; A man holds the Mexican flag while
wearing the American flag during a protest in Phoenix of Arizona's new
immigration bill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

For Mexico's president, one state visit has dual agenda;
CalderÃ³n in Washington to press drug war case, push against Ariz. law

BYLINE: William Booth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1021 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Felipe CalderÃ³n arrives in Washington this week for a two-day state
visit that was supposed to be a celebration of U.S.-Mexican cooperation in his
drug war. Instead, it is likely to showcase Mexico's frustration over Arizona's
tough new immigration law, which CalderÃ³n has described as anti-Mexican.

The legislation's passage has put the hot-button issue of illegal immigration on
the bilateral agenda. It requires police enforcing another law to question a
person's immigration status if there is "reasonable suspicion" that the person
is in the United States illegally.

At home, CalderÃ³n -- who is usually cautious, lawyerly and scripted in his
public remarks -- speaks daily about the fight against the drug cartels but
rarely about immigration, although roughly 10 percent of Mexico's population
lives in the United States.

He has been frank in his condemnation of the Arizona law, however, saying it
"opens the door to intolerance, hate, discrimination and abuse in law
enforcement" and noting that the U.S. economy was built with a lot of Mexican
sweat, legal and not.

In remarks to Spain's El Pais newspaper Friday, he asserted that the law is
creating tensions between the two countries.

In Mexico, the political class from right to left has closed ranks to deplore
the Arizona measure, which has dominated front pages and TV news here. Elected
officials from the three major parties are exhorting CalderÃ³n to challenge it
in Washington, where on Wednesday he will be greeted with pomp and ceremony at
the White House and feted with high-end Mexican fusion food at a state dinner,
and will address a joint session of Congress.

But the atmosphere might be a little strained.

Soon after Arizona's Republican governor, Jan Brewer, signed the measure last
month, Mexico issued a rare "travel advisory" to its citizens warning them of
possible harassment in the state.

The governors of the six northern Mexican states that share a border with the
United States have denounced the law and said they would boycott an upcoming
conference of governors in Phoenix.

The Mexican Embassy in Washington is preparing amicus briefs to support lawsuits
by civil rights groups seeking repeal of the measure. The head of Mexico's
National Human Rights Commission declared the law "xenophobic." Mexican
universities said they would suspend student-exchange programs involving
Arizona. And cartoonists here have had a field day depicting an Arizona without
Mexicans, where U.S. citizens are forced to cook their own food, cut their
lawns, pick their crops and care for their children.

"So, yes, we don't like this law," Mexico's interior secretary, Fernando
GÃ³mez-Mont, said at a forum in Washington this month.

The drug issue

There are an estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants in Arizona, most of them from
Mexico. Mexican migrants, legal and otherwise, sent home more than $20 billion
last year, the second leading source of legitimate foreign income in the country
after oil sales. Illegal drug sales may account for as much as $25 billion.

The U.S. ambassador to Mexico, Carlos Pascual, who worked for six months to
arrange the state visit for CalderÃ³n, has sought to calm emotions, repeating at
every opportunity that President Obama and his administration consider the
Arizona measure "misdirected" and are exploring legal challenges.

A former Mexican foreign minister, Jorge CastaÃ±eda, now a professor at New York
University, has described the law as "stupid but useful," meaning that it may
help create momentum for federal immigration reform.

The law also appears to be feeding Mexican frustration -- usually expressed off
the record -- that the United States is not doing enough in the drug war.
Mexican officials are complaining more openly that authorities here are under
grenade attack by drug-smuggling syndicates while pot pharmacies in Los Angeles
sell bags of marijuana to so-called patients.

Authority figures in Mexico are coming under increasing assault. This weekend, a
former presidential candidate mysteriously disappeared, and police think that
kidnappers or drug gangs may be responsible. Diego FernÃ¡ndez de Cevallos, a
power broker in CalderÃ³n's political party, went missing in the central state
of Queretaro near his ranch, leaving behind an empty car and few clues.

Under the Merida Initiative aid package, U.S. taxpayers have contributed $1.3
billion to the fight, money that pays for Black Hawk helicopters, night-vision
goggles and armored cars and trains for Mexican police officers and judges.
Obama wants to continue the aid initiative and has asked for $310 million for
Mexico in 2011.

CalderÃ³n, who has described his northern neighbors as "the biggest consumers of
drugs in the world," said last week that the binational struggle against drug
trafficking will still be at the center of discussions in Washington.

"The president has to say something about the Arizona law in his speech, but he
is really speaking more to Mexicans," said RaÃºl BenÃ­tez Manaut, an expert in
national security issues and immigration at the Autonomous University of Mexico.
"He also will be careful not to upset the Republicans in Congress, whom he needs
to continue the fight against the cartels."

Systemic corruption

At home, CalderÃ³n has complained that billions of dollars in drug profits
empower the cartels while the United States, with its freewheeling gun market,
is the source of most of the weapons smuggled into Mexico.

More than 22,700 people have died in drug-related violence since CalderÃ³n
declared war against the cartels in December 2006 and sent the first of 50,000
Mexican troops into the streets.

U.S. officials might push back, however. Although they have publicly applauded
CalderÃ³n's courage in attacking the cartels, the fight has revealed systemic
corruption in Mexico.

The latest shock was the discovery of a pile of documents that the government
seized from an associate of Mexico's most-wanted drug trafficker, JoaquÃ­n "El
Chapo" GuzmÃ¡n. The stash included lists of Mexican federal agents, their names
and numbers, and references to intelligence shared by the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Possible side effects of immigrant checks;
Montgomery police fear Arizona-like law would deter crime witnesses

BYLINE: Dan Morse

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 868 words


Outside a Wheaton nightclub last month, police say, a middle-aged Hispanic man
watched a driver ram his Toyota Camry into the side of a Honda Accord, get out,
stab one of the Accord passengers nearly to death, get back into his Camry and
leave. The witness wrote down the Camry's license plate number, waited for
police and passed along the information.

What does that have to do with the nationwide debate over Arizona's tough new
immigration law? More than you might think.

The help provided by the witness, said Montgomery County's police chief, is just
the kind of cooperation that could vanish if local police officers start
aggressively enforcing immigration laws. And Chief J. Thomas Manger is emerging
as a national voice in the debate over immigration laws and policing.

"I understand why a lot of folks in Arizona thought this was the solution," said
Manger, who is scheduled to speak at a news conference Monday as the
representative of the Major Cities Chiefs Association. "But I just know from a
police chief's perspective, there can easily be as many negative consequences."

Not everyone agrees with Manger, nationally or in Montgomery.

"It's unfortunate that he has become a poster child for law enforcement and how
to handle illegal immigration," said Brad Botwin, director of the anti-illegal
immigration group Help Save Maryland. Manger's approach, which relies heavily on
federal agents, "doesn't do nearly enough," Botwin said.

Under the Arizona law, scheduled to take effect in July, police officers would
have to ask about the status of people they come into contact with whom they
suspect could be in the country illegally. At least 10 other states are
considering similar measures, according to the Law Enforcement Engagement
Initiative, a group opposed to the new law.

The question of how far local police should go on immigration isn't new to the
Washington area. The issue surfaced in Montgomery in 2008 and last year, when
suspects with questionable immigration statuses were arrested in connection with
a series of homicides.

One case that grabbed attention was the Nov. 1, 2008, slaying of a 14-year-old
honor student aboard a commuter bus.

Two of the men convicted in that case -- Gilmar L. Romero and Hector M.
Hernandez -- were illegal immigrants whose statuses had gone undetected during
previous arrests in the county, according to police.

In response, Manger instituted a purposely restrained new policy. When officers
arrest people in a violent crime or handgun crime, they now refer them to
immigration agents. But officers are forbidden from asking people they come into
contact with for lesser offenses about their immigration status.

Manger said it's partly a question of staffing.

"Immigration law is as complicated, if not more, than tax law," Manger said.

"I don't want one of my officers stopping somebody for running a stop sign and
then spending the next two hours trying to determine if they're here illegally
or not," he said.

More broadly, Manger hopes to draw a sharp line between those arrested for
serious crimes and everyone else police deal with so that those who are
witnesses or victims and whose legal status is questionable won't be scared to
come forward.

Against that backdrop came the events of April 23, when Edwin Escobar-Salmeron,
29, noticed that his ex-girlfriend was out with other people in Wheaton,
according to authorities. She and four others left in her Honda Accord.

A short distance away, Escobar-Salmeron rammed them with his car, got out,
banged on the Honda and then stabbed a 27-year-old man five times, police said.
Officers arrived to find the victim on the sidewalk, unresponsive and in a pool
of blood.

Escobar-Salmeron's ex-girlfriend initially didn't say much to police. But
Detective Kye Pak was able to speak with one of the Honda's occupants, who told
him that the assailant used to be the woman's boyfriend. Then Pak got the
license plate number.

The detective, who has worked in the department's Wheaton district for seven
years, estimates that 30 percent of those he comes into contact with are
Hispanic. He said he would lose witnesses' cooperation if he and other officers
started making immigration inquiries beyond those they ask of people arrested
for violent offenses.

And he doubts he would have gotten help from the license plate witness if
Montgomery had a more aggressive policy or if the witness had immigration
issues.

"There'd be no reason for him to stick around," Pak said.

Pak filed charges of attempted murder, first-degree assault, stalking and other
counts against Escobar-Salmeron, who remains in the county jail pending action
in his case.

Authorities say he is an illegal immigrant. And that gets to a broader point,
say Botwin and those who advocate for more-aggressive local police policies
regarding immigration issues.

Botwin calls for measures that he said would make illegal immigrants, such as
Escobar-Salmeron, not want to live in Montgomery in the first place. Among them:
police officers making immigration checks of more people they come into contact
with who they suspect could have status problems, no government funding for
day-laborer centers and cracking down on companies that hire illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: May 21, 2010 Friday



CORRECTION: -- A May 17 Metro article about Montgomery County Police Chief J.
Thomas Manger's criticism of a new Arizona immigration law incorrectly said that
the law requires police to check the immigration status of people they come in
contact with if officers suspect they are in the country illegally. That
description was based on an earlier version of the bill, which was amended to
raise the threshold. As the law now reads, police are to ask such questions
after they have stopped or detained someone for a possible offense unrelated to
immigration. Also, officers are not required to make the inquiries if they think
doing so would hinder an investigation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 4, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

White House, Ariz. to talk border security;
President and governor meet but don't agree on comprehensive bill

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 254 words


Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) said Thursday that President Obama assured her that
he would send White House staff members to her state to talk with officials
about efforts to secure the U.S.-Mexico border.

The governor said her meeting with Obama in the Oval Office was cordial, despite
their disagreement over the widely criticized state law she signed in April,
which gave police greater powers to enforce federal immigration laws.

She said Obama declined to discuss whether the Justice Department plans to file
a lawsuit to block the law before it takes effect next month.

The White House said in a statement that the meeting went well but that Obama
reiterated his concerns about the law, including that a patchwork of state
immigration regulations would complicate the federal government's role in
setting and enforcing immigration policy. The White House said Obama would like
Brewer to work with him to help pass comprehensive changes to the immigration
system that would provide a path to citizenship for those already in the country
illegally.

White House press secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters that, in particular, the
president hoped Brewer would help persuade Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) to support
broad immigration legislation, as he did several times earlier this decade. "I
doubt we are going to get comprehensive immigration reform if we don't have John
McCain doing what he did during those years," Gibbs said.

But as she was leaving the White House, Brewer said that she thinks the border
must "be secured" first.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Marvin Joseph/the Washington Post; Protesters outside the White
House denounce Arizona's plans to increase screening for undocumented immigrants
while Gov. Jan Brewer (R) and President Obama meet inside to discuss the issue.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

All-American, just not on paper

BYLINE: Marjorie Valbrun

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1111 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Among the 10,000 or so protesters who gathered in front of the state Capitol
here last weekend under a scorching sun, one group stood out. Despite the heat,
they wore graduation caps and gowns in shiny royal blue and sunburst yellow.

They were graduates of American colleges, young people who mostly grew up in the
United States, accidental Americans who just happen to be living here illegally.

Like the rest of the crowd, they came to protest Arizona's controversial new
immigration enforcement law, but they also sought recognition of a long-sought
goal -- passage of the Dream Act, federal legislation that would provide a path
toward legal status for people like them, undocumented immigrants who were
brought to this country as children by their parents.

Unlike their parents, however, these young people aren't keeping quiet about
their immigration status. They are staging protests around the country, risking
arrest and deportation. It's something their parents, for the most part, would
never thinkof doing. But as this group of mostly 20-somethings sees it, they are
American in every way -- except on paper. They have lived in the United States
for at least 10 years. They speak perfect English and attended grade schools and
universities here. They have American friends, American lifestyles and typical
American sensibilities.

And what's more American than speaking out?

"In school we learned that if you do everything right and live by the rules,
that you'll be rewarded, that everything will pay off, that you can be whatever
you want to be," said Lizbeth Mateo, 25, who came to this country from Mexico at
age 14. "We really believed that. We never felt different from other American
kids, and now we want to start contributing to our country and make our country
better."

In the past few weeks, as public criticism of Arizona's law has grown, several
young activists have been arrested while engaging in civil disobedience. They've
sought to capitalize on a moment when Americans are fixated on immigration to
draw attention to their own political battle. Though they despise the Arizona
law, they don't want the Dream Act to get lost in the debate. They support
comprehensive reform that would provide a path to legalization for the estimated
11 million undocumented immigrants living in this country, but they want
separate legislation -- "a down payment" for the roughly 1.5 million people who
would be eligible for the Dream Act -- passed in the interim.

These young people are tired of waiting. So they are staging sit-ins at the
district offices of members of Congress and blocking traffic in front of federal
buildings. In some cases, those arrested may face deportation to countries where
they have not lived for many years and where they no longer have strong ties.

"We've been organizing for years," said Yahaira Carrillo, 25, who came to the
United States at age 8 with her parents. "We've done everything else that we
could, the faxing letters to Congress, the lobbying, the letter-writing
campaigns, the conference panels, the media interviews. What else do we need to
do for our political leaders to hear us?"

Carrillo was one of five students who took part in a sit-in last month outside
the Tucson office of Sen. John McCain (R). They were hoping to convince the
senator to help revive the Dream Act legislation. Instead, four of them were
arrested and are awaiting a court hearing later this month. Three of the
students, including Carrillo, are undocumented.

And if they face deportation? "That's something that we'll deal with when we
have to," Carrillo says calmly.

That fearlessness -- or naivete -- separates Carrillo's generation from that of
her parents. This divide was evident at the protest last Saturday. "These are
different times," said Irene, an older immigrant from El Salvador who took part
in the march and did not give her last name for fear of repercussions at her
job. "Our kids are of a different time. They feel they are a more vital part of
America."

Her friend Ann Saladrigas added: "They're more out in the open."

The difference is striking to me, too. As an immigrant who came of age in the
early 1980s, I've watched this fledging movement with a mix of admiration and
trepidation. I admire the young immigrants' unapologetic moxie, but I worry that
it might cause a backlash. "American except on paper" is an important
distinction to a lot of people who view legal status as a privilege, not a
right. Then again, few activist movements won new "rights" by waiting for them
to be handed out; they got them  by agitating for them.

I came to the United States from Haiti at age 6, along with four older siblings.
Although my family came here legally, we had friends and relatives who were
undocumented. In those days, we never discussed loved ones' immigration status
with anyone outside the family. Rallies and sit-ins were out of the question.
Being undocumented was a source of embarrassment and fear. It remains so for
older immigrants, but the Dream Act generation considers it  merely a temporary
state.

Without question, these young activists are a sympathetic and impressive bunch.
Many were top high school students who went on to earn college degrees.
Well-educated, media savvy and politically astute, they have something to say
and are not shy about saying it. Over the years, they've consistently earned the
support of both Republican and Democratic lawmakers. In April, Sens. Dick Durbin
(D-Ill.) and Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) asked Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano to halt deportations of students who would be eligible for legal
status under the Dream Act.

The legislation has languished in Congress for nearly a decade, despite lobbying
by the students and immigrant advocacy organizations. If passed, it would permit
certain undocumented students to become permanent legal residents if they came
to this country before age 16 and attend college or enlist in the military.

"Everyone who is in this group has been fighting for the Dream Act for years,"
said Tania Unzueta, 26, who emigrated from Mexico when she was 10 along with her
parents and 6-year-old sister. She took part in the sit-in at the McCain office
but left before being arrested.

"It's not just about us," she says. "We see many other people even younger than
us going through this, so we wanted to give it our most and take this last
stand."

As she knows from her fellow protesters awaiting court hearings, it's a stand
that could land them very far from the place they call home.

mvalbrun@americasvoiceonline.org

Marjorie Valbrun is a journalist and senior writer at America's Voice, an
immigration advocacy organization in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Joshua Lott/reuters; Demonstrators in Phoenix protested
Arizona's new immigration enforcement law over Memorial Day weekend, marching to
the state Capitol.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Stars band together to protest Arizona law;
Controversial statute ignites fervor, activism among musicians

BYLINE: Reed Johnson

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. E08

LENGTH: 687 words


Four summers ago, a handful of Spanish-speaking radio disc jockeys helped bring
hundreds of thousands of Latino marchers to the streets of Los Angeles and other
cities to support immigration reform.

Now, in what is partly a sign of the growing clout of U.S. Latinos both as
voters and cultural consumers, a number of prominent artists, both Latino and
non-Latino, are urging a boycott of Arizona's controversial new statute that
requires law enforcement officials to determine the status of people they
suspect are illegal immigrants whom they've stopped or detained for other
reasons.

Several musicians, including Carlos Santana, Willie Nelson and the Mexican
pop-rock band Mana, are recording songs in support of the millions of
immigrants, mainly from Mexico and other parts of Latin America, living in the
United States, whatever their legal status.

"These folks are coming to us the way immigrants have always come to us. We
really need to welcome these people," Nelson said in a phone interview,
explaining why he took part in recording the song "Si Se Puede," colloquially
translated as "Yes We Can."

Meanwhile, a growing number of other musical performers, including Colombian pop
stars Shakira and Juanes, Zack de la Rocha of Rage Against the Machine, Los
Tigres del Norte, Sonic Youth, Kanye West and Ozomatli have called for a boycott
of Arizona to protest the new statute. So far few, if any, prominent musicians
or artists have stepped forward publicly to support the Arizona law.

While opinion polls indicate that  voters in the U.S. are deeply divided over
the Arizona law, it's doubtful that groups like Ozomatli and Rage Against the
Machine need worry about alienating members of their multicultural, politically
progressive fan bases.

In a statement released this week, De la Rocha expressed concern that Arizona's
SB 1070 could lead to fans of the group being "pulled over and harassed . . .
because they are brown or black, or for the way they speak, or for the music
they listen to."

"Yes We Can" imparts a message largely of solidarity rather than protest. But
other musical artists are recording songs with more politically pointed lyrics.

The U.S.-born, bilingual hip-hop performer known as Mexia has recorded a track
called "Todos Somos Arizona (We Are All Arizona)," in which he declares, "we're
Latinos on the rise like blood pressure, yeah, trying to control us with fear.

"We clean your home, cook your food while you sit on your [throne] without a
clue," continues Mexia, who is the son of Hernan Hernandez, one of the founding
members of the Mexican super-group Los Tigres Del Norte, which has an enormous
stateside following and frequently sings about immigrants' struggles.

Alberto Kreimerman, producer of "Si Se Puede" and president of Fundacion Hermes
Music, emphasized in an interview that the idea for the song originated several
years ago and was not written specifically in response to the Arizona law.

The track's aim, he said, was to raise consciousness and empathy for immigrants
in general.

"We think it's a problem of awareness," Kreimerman said. "It's not a problem of
law."

The single, which includes contributions from Santana, Nelson, Ramon Ayala, Los
Lonely Boys, Mana and the Tejano/NorteÃ±o group Intocable, is scheduled to be
released on the Fourth of July. Sales proceeds will benefit Fundacion Hermes and
another foundation that assists immigrants, run by longtime farmworkers-rights
activist Dolores Huerta.

Pilar Diaz, formerly of the group Los Abandoned, approaches the subject of
illegal immigration somewhat playfully in her song and accompanying music video
"Ilegal En Estyle." Speaking by phone, Diaz said she hopes that her
Spanglish-titled tune and whimsical, partly animated video will encourage all
immigrants to believe that they can rise above temporary hardships and "live in
style," relatively speaking, while pursuing better lives.

"It's something that's very close to me because my parents immigrated here with
me when I was a child," said Diaz, whose family is from Chile. "I know those
struggles, and I know how hard that was for my parents."

-- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE; Willie Nelson, Kanye West and Carlos Santana are among those urging a
boycott.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

High court rules in favor of immigrants;
Justices oppose automatic deportation for minor drug offenses

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 620 words


Immigrants convicted of minor drug offenses should not face automatic
deportation, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously Monday, a decision that could
allow thousands of legal immigrants the chance to argue for leniency from
immigration judges.

The court overruled the legal interpretations of the federal government and a
lower appeals court in saying that Jose Angel Carachuri-Rosendo should have had
a chance to make his case for staying in the country.

Carachuri-Rosendo, a legal resident who had lived in the United States since he
was 5, was deported to his native Mexico after being convicted of possessing a
single tablet of Xanax, an anti-anxiety drug, and serving a 10-day sentence. He
had been convicted of possessing a small amount of marijuana a year earlier and
received a 20-day sentence.

In an opinion by Justice John Paul Stevens, the court said that was not what
Congress had in mind when it mandated automatic deportation for any immigrant
convicted of an aggravated felony. The government had said that
Carachuri-Rosendo's second conviction put him in that category, even though
local prosecutors did not increase the second offense to a drug-trafficking
charge.

"We do not usually think of a 10-day sentence for the unauthorized possession of
a trivial amount of a prescription drug as an 'aggravated felony,' " Stevens
wrote. Immigrants who break the law should receive the chance to plead their
case before an immigration judge rather than face automatic deportation, he
said.

Manuel Vargas, senior counsel for the Immigrant Defense Project, said that would
mean immigrants could ask a judge to consider factors such as their length of
time in the United States, military service, and family and community ties.
Illegal immigrants would still face virtually automatic deportation, he said.

Carachuri-Rosendo, who is in his early 30s, was deported even though his
common-law wife, four children and other family members are U.S. citizens.

The case is Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder.

The court also dealt second chances in another case.

It said a death-row inmate from Florida deserves another opportunity to have
federal courts review his sentence because his lawyer did not meet a filing
deadline.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit in Atlanta had ruled that even if
Albert Holland's attorney Bradley M. Collins was "grossly negligent" in missing
the deadline, the law didn't afford Holland, who was convicted of killing a
police officer, another chance. Federal law requires that the lawyer must have
exhibited "bad faith, dishonesty, divided loyalty, mental impairment or so
forth" to file a petition after the deadline.

"In our view, this standard is too rigid," Justice Stephen G. Breyer wrote in
the court's 7-2 opinion.

Breyer noted numerous examples of Holland's efforts to get the lawyer to file by
the deadline and pointed out that in some cases, Holland's legal interpretations
were right and Collins's were wrong. "The case before us does not involve, and
we are not considering, a 'garden-variety claim' of attorney negligence," Breyer
wrote.

Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas dissented. Scalia said that although
the court's "impulse to intervene when a litigant's lawyer had made mistakes is
understandable," precedent demands a finding that the petitioner is "out of
luck."

The case is Holland v. Florida.

The court also accepted California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's challenge of a
special federal judicial panel's decision that the state must reduce its prison
population by 46,000 inmates over the next two years. The court will hear the
case in the term that begins in the fall, and the order is on hold until the
justices decide the issue. The case is Schwarzenegger v. Plata.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Fear of immigration law has Ariz. family hiding out in the open

BYLINE: Paloma Esquivel

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


The day Arizona's governor signed the strictest immigration law in the country
-- tasking police with checking the immigration status of those they stop and
suspect to be in the country illegally -- Maria thought it might be the last
straw for her family.

For six years Maria, a U.S. citizen, and her husband, Salvador, who is in the
country illegally, have tried to make sure he isn't caught up in a raid or sweep
or traffic enforcement operation. To avoid his deportation, the couple takes
precautions that, when synthesized, go something like this:

Avoid driving at night. Avoid unnecessary trips -- grocery shopping once a week
is best.

Stay home. Stay and take care of the garden. Enjoy the blueberry bushes and the
apricot trees, and mow the lawn. Keep it nice. Try to deflect, as much as
possible, their 4-year-old daughter's questions about going to Disneyland.

As a citizen, Maria, 24, doesn't worry about being stopped when she's alone or
with her daughter, Carina. But her concern for Salvador, 29, has grown over the
years, especially after Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio began using his
department to enforce federal immigration laws. When the program was essentially
adopted on a statewide level, one of Maria's aunts considered canceling her
daughter's 8th birthday party to avoid attracting attention.

Other friends and relatives -- often mixed families of citizens and illegal
immigrants -- decided to put off repairs to their homes to save money in case a
family member got deported. Like many of them, Maria wondered: Is it time to
leave Arizona?

A love story

 Maria and Salvador met as teenagers. In the evenings Maria played basketball at
the middle school where Salvador took English classes. (They asked that their
full names not be used because of his status.) She never thought to ask about
his legal situation when they started dating, and by the time she learned he'd
crossed the border illegally when he was 17, they'd already made plans for a
life together.

Maria, who came to the United States legally when she was 6, became a citizen at
18, thinking Salvador would easily obtain legal status once they were married.
They wed that same year at a Phoenix courthouse but set a date for a wedding a
year later at El Santuario del Senor de La Piedad, a centuries-old Catholic
church that towers over the couple's shared home town of La Piedad, in the
Mexican state of Michoacan.

But they never made it.

Soon after they were married, they met with an immigration attorney, who told
them Salvador would have to return to Mexico to apply for residency. If he did,
the attorney said, it was possible he'd be barred from the United States for 10
years.

They decided they couldn't risk such a separation. Two years later, Carina was
born. Realizing that Salvador's legal status was probably not going to change,
they went about putting down roots.

Maria settled into her job as a teacher's assistant in a class for severely
autistic preschoolers. Salvador worked maintenance at a golf course, with a
schedule that allowed him to pick up their daughter from day care. Last January,
they had a church wedding at Most Holy Trinity Catholic Parish in north Phoenix.
Carina carried her mother's train.

In the meantime, Arizona began taking steps to make it an inhospitable state for
those who came to the country illegally: The county sheriff dispatched his
deputies to search for illegal immigrants, a law was passed to bar such
immigrants from receiving government services, and the state sought to shut down
businesses that hired illegal workers.

Living with worry

 Maria and Salvador learned to live, somewhat, with the worry.

When Salvador leaves for work in the morning, Maria gives him a clean set of
clothes for the drive home so he won't look like a laborer. When he has a
weekend shift and can't travel with his usual carpool, Maria wakes up before he
leaves at 4:30 a.m. and together, they pray that he comes back.

The rules for driving are clear: Check the truck -- make sure the signals and
lights work. Drive carefully, use turn signals, make complete stops. Never
exceed the speed limit.

Don't put unnecessary adornments on the truck -- a friend was once pulled over
by deputies for having a broken light on his license plate. He was deported
shortly after.

In August, they bought their first home, a three-bedroom bank-owned fixer-upper.
They spent much of their time repairing it and caring for the huge yard, with
its fruit trees and flowers.

When Salvador's father died this year, he couldn't attend the funeral. So they
planted an apricot tree in his honor.

Maria became involved in a church group that advocates for a variety of causes,
such as education and immigrant rights. The information she gets at
immigrant-rights sessions with the Valley Interfaith Project, she says, helps
her when she is overwhelmed by anxiety.

A few months ago, Maria and Salvador learned she was pregnant. They are
expecting a sister for Carina in September.

Run or stay?

 It was just after 1:30 p.m. on April 23, and Maria was at work when she got a
text message from her mother: Gov. Jan Brewer had signed SB 1070 into law.

Maria ran through scenarios in her mind: We'll move to California, she thought.
We'll rent our house and get an apartment. My family in California can help
Salvador get a job.

At home, she called an uncle who lives in Armona, a tiny San Joaquin Valley town
in California. He'd heard the news, he said, and was prepared for her and her
family to stay at his home until they were settled.

When Salvador came home, Maria told him of her plans. His response was clear and
unhesitant. He has a good job here, he said, who knows if he could get one in
California? What if they were stopped by sheriff's deputies on the way out of
town? What if he were put in a detention facility far from home?

After a few days, Maria decided she agreed with her husband. Leaving would be
like running away from her home, she says, and she doesn't want to do that.

They've decided to stay in Arizona and wait it out, taking precautions as
always.

The aunt who was planning her daughter's birthday party canceled it. And, though
Maria knows the law isn't scheduled to go into effect until late July, she still
finds herself switching to English when she and her husband walk past police
officers. Salvador's English is limited, so he just nods as she speaks.

Mostly, they stay home more now, Maria says. And when the worry becomes
overwhelming, she goes out to the garden and trims the hedges.

-- Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Obama presses GOP on immigration reform;
11 senators who backed '06 effort are challenged to revive their support

BYLINE: Michael W. Savage

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 801 words


President Obama piled new pressure on Republicans on Thursday to support moves
to fix an immigration system he said has become "broken and dangerous," but key
GOP senators showed little sign of being ready to cooperate.

In his first presidential speech dedicated to the divisive issue, Obama made the
case for   comprehensive immigration  reform that would see undocumented
migrants given a pathway to citizenship and further measures put in place to
secure the southwestern border.

But he also turned a spotlight on 11 Republican senators who had backed reform
attempts in 2006, arguing that progress is being "held hostage" by "political
posturing, special-interest wrangling and . . . the pervasive sentiment in
Washington that tackling such a thorny and emotional issue is inherently bad
politics."

"I'm ready to move, the majority of Democrats are ready to move, and I believe
the majority of Americans are ready to move," Obama said in the half-hour speech
at American University. "But the fact is that without bipartisan support, as we
had just a few years ago, we cannot solve this problem."

Some of the 11 senators whose support is critical to his plans signaled Thursday
that they are not ready to back reform this time around. They also denied that
they had changed their positions for political reasons.

Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for Sen. Judd Gregg (N.H.), said the senator is
interested in fixing the immigration system. But she added that he had made it
clear he "does not support any initiative promoting comprehensive reform until
the president and this administration get serious about controlling our
borders."

Andy Fisher, a spokesman for Sen. Richard G. Lugar (Ind.), said the senator
thinks it is simply the wrong moment for reform. "There really is not the
political landscape to proceed with it at this time," he said.

Other minor legislation, designed to legalize those who came to the United
States as children and then enrolled in U.S. colleges, "could potentially be
doable this year," the spokesman said.

Sen. Robert F. Bennett (Utah) also said further border enforcement had to come
first. "The president needs to work with Congress on a step-by-step approach,
focusing first on securing our borders and then establishing a temporary worker
program," he said.

Other  Republicans sympathetic to the cause  now have other priorities. Sen.
John McCain, a past supporter, faces a tough battle in his Arizona primary. Sen.
Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.), who had been working with Democrats on a draft reform
bill earlier in the year, has now said that Congress should prioritize other
issues such as Wall Street reform.

The president did not outline any details for reform or set a timetable for a
reform bill, to the disappointment of those pushing him to fulfill his election
pledge to take up the issue early in his first term.

Obama said that "years of patchwork fixes" had led to an immigration system that
was creaking, adding that Arizona's new law clamping down on illegal immigration
stemmed from the impasse in Congress. But he criticized the law, which gives
officers more power to check the status of those suspected of entering the
country illegally, as "ill-conceived."

A slim majority of Americans support the Arizona law, according to a Washington
Post-ABC poll, but a similar number also still back a program giving those here
illegally the right to earn legal documentation.

"The process of who is and who isn't allowed to enter this country and on what
terms has always been contentious, and that remains true," Obama told an
audience of 250, including lawmakers and reform advocates.

Although Obama said amnesty would be "unwise and unfair," he also said
apprehending all undocumented migrants would be impossible in practice. He
argued that the border is more secure than at any time in the past 20 years and
that reform is needed in other areas now.

"We can create a pathway for legal status that is fair, reflective of our
values, and works," he said. "The question now is whether we will have the
courage and political will."

Few in Congress see any chance of a bill making headway in an election year. A
White House operation has been underway over the past few months to put the ball
firmly in the Republicans' court. In April, Obama called sympathetic Republican
senators to see whether a deal could be reached. He also spoke at their caucus
lunch recently in a bid to round up support.

Obama has also attempted to show a renewed zeal for reform. He met with
advocates Monday to talk about his commitment to the issue. In an hour-long
meeting Tuesday, the president and a group of Hispanic members of Congress
discussed how to proceed.

Hispanics could play an important part in the Democrats' fortunes in the midterm
elections. Two-thirds of Hispanic voters backed Obama in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 9, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 267 words

ARIZONA

$500,000 donated to defend migrant law

Donations to a fund to help Arizona pay to defend its immigration enforcement
law now total  nearly $500,000, with  most of the contributions made after the
federal government challenged the law in court.

More than 7,000 of the 9,057 contributions submitted to the fund's Web site by
Thursday morning were made in the days following the government's  lawsuit,
according to a document from Gov. Jan Brewer's (R) office.

Brewer established the Governor's Border Security and Immigration Legal Defense
Fund with a May 26 executive order. Web site contributions account for about  88
percent of the total donations,  her office said, coming from all 50 states and
the District.

-- Associated Press

CALIFORNIA

Verdict against officer prompts protests

A white former transit officer was convicted Thursday of involuntary
manslaughter in the shooting death of an unarmed black man on an Oakland train
platform last year.

Prosecutors had wanted Johannes Mehserle convicted of murdering 22-year-old
Oscar Grant, who was shot as he lay facedown. The jury found that Mehserle
didn't mean to kill Grant, but that his behavior was still so negligent that it
was criminal.

About 400 people marched Thursday night through the streets of Oakland to
protest the verdict.

-- Associated Press

Coast Guard halts 'duck boat' search: The Coast Guard halted its search for a
16-year-old girl and 20-year-old man, both Hungarian students, who had been
missing since a Wednesday collision between their amphibious "duck" tour boat
and a barge on the Delaware River.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 16, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The face of immigration

BYLINE: Edward Schumacher-Matos

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY

LENGTH: 750 words


How do you sell success when its human face is one of innocent people being
punished?

The Obama administration is doing a miserable job of selling its successes in
immigration enforcement to the American people, and a central reason is because
it can't answer that question.

The number of unauthorized immigrants in this country is dropping. The number
crossing the border is lower than it has been in nearly 40 years. Federal, state
and local police are cracking down on the very small number of immigrants who
commit violent and other crimes.

Yet: Where are the telegenic Border Patrol leaders looking heroic on the cable
television shows? Where are the Pentagon-like charts that capture the trend
lines in a single, clear image? Where, above all, is the president, standing on
the border, giving Americans confidence that the government is in control?

Nowhere. In just the past two weeks, what we have witnessed is the president
verbally knifing Republicans in a tepid speech, an otherwise competent secretary
of homeland security giving one more ponderous talk to wonks in Washington, and
the nation's Democratic governors crying that not even they understand what the
administration is doing on immigration, other than suing to overturn a popular
Arizona law.

A big part of leadership is showmanship, and President Obama legitimately has
something to show. But I have asked administration officials why they don't and,
after much squirming, it comes down to the human face of those who are  being
punished. Those being jailed and deported are mostly honest, well-meaning
people, many of them poor, who sneaked across the border or overstayed their
visas because they wanted to work. Some have children, adding to the drama.

Such images don't sit well with administration officials personally or
politically, many of them having previously worked on immigration issues. The
images raise the hackles of the religious groups, immigrant activists, and
Latino and other ethnic groups that are part of Obama's base.

And so the administration politically muddles. It somehow hopes to persuade the
American public to support a total overhaul of the immigration system by proving
that the government can be trusted to enforce the law, but without campaigning
on its enforcement effectiveness so as not to offend the president's base
constituencies. It blames Republicans for the failure to pass comprehensive
immigration reform. For good measure, it blames Republicans for the plight of
the poor immigrants, even though it is Democrats who are carrying out the
enforcement.

If you think that all makes little sense, you're right. The administration
doesn't know what it is doing -- for itself, for the Democrats running in
November or for the country. The Republicans don't help, as they pander to the
vocal extremists in their base, who want to hear only of enforcement.

The time has come for the president to find his courage, look past his base and
take the campaign to the American people. Polls show again and again that
Americans support earned legalization for the 11 million unauthorized immigrants
now living and working here, but they want to feel confident that the government
is committed to stopping more from coming illegally.

As Stewart Verdery, an assistant secretary of homeland security under President
George W. Bush, wrote in a report two weeks ago, the Obama administration has
met or is meeting the enforcement benchmarks that immigration restrictionists in
the Senate had set in 2007 as part of a comprehensive reform bargain (which
later failed).

If Obama doesn't embrace his enforcement successes and go to the country on
immigration, he has the worst of all worlds: an unconvinced public, a resentful
base and Republicans rising to take advantage of it all in November. The
overhaul, meanwhile, is needed for the economy, for our sense of fairness and,
ironically, for enforcement itself to fully work.

What good is meeting benchmarks if no one knows?

To be fair, Obama has competing priorities, beginning with the recession. But
immigration has become such a toxic issue that the country is being pulled
apart. There was a sad image recently for that, too. In the small town of
Milford, Mass., Ecuadorean immigrants planted a heart-shaped flower bed as a
sign of appreciation to their adopted home, the Boston Globe reported this week.
It was torn out soon after.

Edward Schumacher-Matos is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is edward.schumachermatos@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Students raise the stakes against immigration's status quo

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1286 words


On a patch of asphalt outside the White House this week, Renata Teodoro,
Maricela Aguilar and scores of other students are risking deportation simply by
sharing their full names and immigration status with anyone who asks.

In an act of defiance unimaginable to many in their parents' generation, they
are publicly declaring that they are in the United States illegally as a way to
push for change that would help thousands of undocumented young people like
them. And they are doing so in one of the most highly patrolled -- and
politicized -- spots in the country.

"I'm not going to lie and say that I'm not afraid of someone coming in and
trying to arrest me, but I can't let that fear take over my life," said Teodoro,
22, a student at the University of Massachusetts in Boston whose parents were
deported back to Brazil a couple of years ago. "The only way of people finding
out about my situation is to tell my story."

She and other undocumented high school and college students and graduates have
been streaming into Washington this week to demand passage of the Dream Act,
legislation that would give unauthorized young immigrants a path to legal
residency if they contribute to the country by serving in the military or
getting a college education.

Most of the students have lived in the United States from a young age and
consider themselves Americans. They are attending "classes" at what organizers
have dubbed the "Dream University," meeting with legislators, and, in a notable
shift from previous years, giving out their full names and personal histories.

On Tuesday, almost two dozen activists went one step further, staging sit-ins
inside the Senate Hart Office Building that resulted in 21 arrests for
disorderly conduct. Those charged could be referred to U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, although it is not a given that they would face deportation
as a result.

"We don't necessarily take action on everyone who is referred to us," said
Gillian Brigham, a spokeswoman for ICE.

Losing the fear

 The willingness of these young people to confront authorities in Washington and
elsewhere is a far cry from the approach of most illegal immigrants, who are
usually anxious to avoid calling attention to themselves. Many are deeply
worried about the passage of a controversial law in Arizona that will give
police the power to question people they suspect of being illegal immigrants.
Other states are considering similar measures.

"It is a bit of a surprise to see how bold and open a lot of the young people
are about their status, and that's changed from the past," said Margie McHugh,
co-director of the nonprofit Migration Policy Institute's National Center on
Immigrant Integration Policy, who said it was unclear what the consequences for
them could be.

The students typically come from families that have strived to stay off the
radar of immigration authorities. Sometimes they do not even tell their children
that they are here illegally, hoping that they will absorb the confidence and
ambition of their American friends and neighbors.

Many have done just that, and increasingly are acting like typical American
college students: openly embracing a cause they believe in.

"I think there's an empowerment that comes with giving your name," said Aguilar,
19, a political science and English major at Marquette University in Milwaukee
who calls herself a Midwesterner and has the accent to prove it.

She and others said their public declarations are a relief from the tension of
always hiding. In fact, they hope the tactic will advance their cause and
protect them from deportation.

"Our friends and our family are always telling us not to do it," said Francisco
Gutierrez, 18, a Georgetown University student who moved to the United States
from Mexico when he was 3 and had just started giving out his name. "I tell them
we can't be fearful any more. We can't live our lives afraid that there's always
something going to happen to us, just because we are undocumented."

Carlos Saavedra, national coordinator of the United We Dream Network, agreed.
"We are losing the fear," said Saavedra, whose organization, a coalition of
immigrant youth groups, organized many of the events and plans to continue them
into August.

He gestured at the 20 or so students sitting in rows, some holding umbrellas in
sweltering Lafayette Square. No one in the group -- which included his brother
Rodrigo, who is 16 and undocumented -- appeared nervous, although ICE
headquarters is not far from the White House.

"They know we're here," Saavedra said, "and we have not seen anything more than
park police telling us to move here and move there."

Brigham would not comment specifically on the students outside the White House,
but she said ICE puts a priority on deporting illegal immigrants with criminal
backgrounds. In the past two years, the percentage of those deported with
criminal backgrounds has risen from 31 percent to 50 percent, she said. Of the
227,163 people removed in the first half of this year, 113,453 were identified
as criminal aliens.

Meanwhile, an estimated 65,000 illegal immigrants graduate from U.S. high
schools each year. Some are able to enroll in college, but they can have
difficulty obtaining financial aid because of their status.

Protection via publicity

Although ICE could go after the students, they are making a calculation that
publicity, even arrest, can work in their favor, said observers on both side of
the immigration issue.

"In a sense, going forward to the media affords protection," said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Washington-based Center for Immigration
Studies, which favors tighter immigration controls. "They're striking a pose of
bravado knowing perfectly well that there's absolutely no chance that they're
going to be [deported] once they've given an interview to the newspaper."

Immigration activists cite the case of Eric Balderas, a Harvard undergraduate
and immigrant from Mexico who was arrested last month for being in the United
States illegally. Deportation proceedings against him were halted after
extensive publicity and lobbying by Harvard officials and Sen. Richard J. Durbin
(D-Ill.).

Deportation has been deferred for others in similar straits after their stories
appeared in the news. Brigham said ICE grants deferments on a case-by-case
basis.

But not everyone wants to test immigration authorities.

At a "Coming Out" rally in Chicago in March, some students gave only their first
names. At a May 1 rally in Washington, several gave their names to reporters but
avoided being arrested at a sit-in. In Arizona a few days later, undocumented
students staged a protest in front of Republican Sen. John McCain's office.
Three were arrested and are in deportation proceedings.

One of them, Mohammad Abdollahi, 24, whose family moved to Michigan from Iran
when he was 3, said he is hoping the publicity surrounding his case will lead to
a deferment, though he knows that there is no guarantee.

Aguilar, whose family moved to the U.S. from Mexico when she was 3, said she
didn't reveal her status for years, even while working as an activist for
undocumented students.

"You'd always say everything in the third person," she said. But this year, when
activists were planning a series of "coming out" events, she decided it was time
to switch to the first person.

Whether giving out their names will help the students achieve their goals
remains to be seen.

"I think it's not possible to say yet if it's a safe or an extremely risky thing
for them to do," McHugh said. "They are taking a great risk in putting
themselves out there so publicly. In the end, they'll be judged to have been
quite prescient if the law does end up happening and naÃ¯ve if it doesn't."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mark Abramson/the Washington Post; Diana Martinez, 18, and other
students are arrested after staging a sit-in at the Hart Senate Office Building.
The students are taking a chance by disclosing their undocumented status.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

What immigration law really says

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 245 words


Doris Meissner and James W. Ziglar's July 22 op-ed piece, "Why the U.S. had to
challenge Arizona on immigration," misstated the facts about Section 287(g) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act. That section of law establishes a mechanism
for formal cooperation between the Department of Homeland Security and state and
local law enforcement agencies.  Then-Sen. Alan Simpson (R-Wyo.) and I wrote the
law.

Ms. Meissner and Mr. Ziglar asserted that Arizona's immigration enforcement law
"appears to go well beyond the intent of 287(g)." They also claimed that the
federal government "must expressly delegate . . . authority" to states that wish
to aid in the enforcement of our immigration laws.

In fact, paragraph 10 of section 287(g) specifically provides for the type of
law that Arizona has enacted. It states: "Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to require an agreement . . . in order for any officer of a State . .
. to communicate with the [Secretary of Homeland Security] regarding the
immigration status of any individual . . . or otherwise to cooperate with the
[Secretary] in the identification, apprehension, detention, or removal of aliens
not lawfully present in the United States."

The writers may be unfamiliar with Section 287(g) because they only entered into
two such agreements in their nine combined years at  the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer is the ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Tips for immigration lawyers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 300 words


Federal careers expert Derrick T. Dortch answered questions online recently.
Following is an excerpt.

Q. What government agencies can I apply for as an experienced immigration lawyer
with more than 10 years of independent practice

A. Given that you have developed a subject matter expertise on immigration
issues, I assume that you want to stay in this field.

If you do not, that is a longer discussion. But if you do, let me tackle some
agencies you may be interested in targeting:

-- Under Department of Homeland Security you may want to look at the Department
of Homeland Security Headquarters (HQ), General Counsel and other offices at
http://www.dhs.gov/files/immigration.shtm; look on the link above and see who is
focused on these issues.

-- U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services at
http://www.uscis.gov/forms.

-- Cache U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement at http://www.ice.gov/.

-- Department of Justice the Executive Office for Immigration Review at
http://www.justice.gov/eoir/.

-- Labor Department at http://www.dol.gov/compliance/laws/comp-ina.htm.

-- State Department at
http://travel.state.gov/visa/immigrants/types/types_1310.html.

-- Social Security & Entering the United States at
http://www.ssa.gov/immigration/.

These are just a few to begin targeting. I hope this helps and gets you started
on the right track.

I wish you much success!

Dortch Tip:

The Office of Personnel Management has developed a frequently asked questions
(FAQ) section that is pretty helpful in answering many questions about federal
employment and related topics. I can't say that it answers every single question
you might have, but its a good starting point to try to find out information.

You can find it by clicking on http://www.opm.gov/faqs/

Go to www.washingtonpost.com/jobs for the entire discussion.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Derrick T. Dortch, president of Diversa Group.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Judge Bolton's gift to the GOP

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 807 words


Christmas came early for demagogues. The court decision putting a hold on the
worst provisions of Arizona's new anti-Latino immigration law is a gift-wrapped
present to those who delight in turning truth, justice and the American way into
political liabilities.

As surely everyone knows by now, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton issued a
preliminary injunction Wednesday blocking the state from enforcing parts of the
law that look patently unconstitutional. The political fallout is pretty clear:
In the short run, at least, Republicans win and Democrats lose.

Longer term, the impact of the immigration issue on the major parties' prospects
is the other way around. But the focus now is on winning in November, and the
GOP is licking its chops.

Critics have another weapon to use against the Obama administration, because it
was President Obama's Justice Department that filed suit against the Arizona
law. Attorney General Eric Holder chose a relatively narrow argument: that the
draconian measure was a blatant usurpation of the federal government's
prerogative to establish and enforce immigration laws.

Bolton agreed, and she enjoined the parts of the measure that ventured onto
federal turf. The Justice Department did not ask her to address the other big
problem with the law, which is that it amounts to a prescription for racial
profiling on a scale not seen in this country since the days of Jim Crow laws in
the South. But Bolton went there anyway.

If local police are ordered to verify the immigration status of anyone they
detain or question, there is a "substantial likelihood" that such an
indiscriminate dragnet will sweep up legal resident aliens, foreign tourists
with valid visas and even U.S. citizens -- in other words, anyone who looks kind
of Mexican.

Aside from Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio -- a grandstanding publicity hound
who already stages immigration raids for the television cameras -- virtually all
prominent law enforcement officials in the state opposed the law. They argued
that it would overburden their resources, potentially put their officers in
danger and, most important, make it much harder to investigate crimes. Imagine
two men in a car who happen to be waiting at a stoplight when a brutal mugging
takes place before their eyes. If the new law were in effect, and if one of
those witnesses were here illegally, what are the odds that they'd stick around
to tell police what they saw?

We'll hear no such subtlety or nuance from Republicans this fall, though. We'll
hear thunderous allegations that the Obama administration -- the big, bad
federal government -- conspired with an unelected federal judge to keep the
state of Arizona from enforcing a law that seeks only to kick out of the country
a bunch of people who have no right to be here.

We'll hear from GOP candidates that Arizona had to act because the federal
government refuses to "secure the border." The fact is that President Obama has
sharply increased border enforcement and deportations; the influx of
undocumented immigrants is greatly reduced from what it was during the Bush
administration. But there Obama goes again, trying to find a sane, moderate
course of action. Predictably, he's getting hit from both sides -- the
anti-immigrant crowd that claims he's not doing enough, and the pro-immigrant
crowd that complains he's doing too much.

Immigration wasn't always a partisan issue, but that's what it has become; even
John McCain, once a strong advocate of comprehensive reform, now sides with the
xenophobes. This is a huge long-term problem for Republicans, who risk becoming
branded as the anti-Latino party -- and driving the nation's biggest and
fastest-growing minority group into the arms of the Democratic Party for a
generation or more.

Smart GOP strategists such as Karl Rove understand this danger and have sounded
warnings. But their voices are drowned out by those who demand that authorities
somehow track down, apprehend and expel the estimated 11 million people here
without documents, the vast majority of whom are law-abiding and productive.
Anything short of an all-out pogrom is labeled "amnesty" -- the kind of craven
surrender favored by such liberal bleeding-hearts as Ronald Reagan and George W.
Bush.

"No to illegal immigration" is a simple sound bite that will win votes for some
Republican candidates. Democrats find themselves stuck with words that work
better as a movie title than as a campaign slogan: "Do the right thing."

eugenerobinson@washpost.com

More Post commentary on immigration: A University of Arizona law professor and
the University of California at Davis law school dean on the Supreme Court
ruling that supports the profiling in Arizona's law.

Former commissioners of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service on why
the Obama administration had to sue Arizona over its immigration law.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Rick Scuteri/reuters; A supporter of tough immigration
legislation demonstrates Thursday in front of Arizona's capitol building in
Phoenix.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Post Tech Cecilia Kang;
Excerpt from voices.washingtonpost.com/posttech

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 233 words

Calls for reform despite unused work visas

Just about every year, Silicon Valley appeals to Washington for immigration
reform, arguing for an increase in the number of visas for highly skilled
workers and for reforms to the green-card program.

This year, for the first time, high-tech and other firms did not use the
allotted 65,000 H-1B visas set aside for non-immigrant skilled workers. In
fiscal  2009, which ended  Sept. 30, 46,000 H-1B petitions had been filed,
leaving about 19,000 H-1B visas unused.

Even so, two weeks ago, the chief executives of Microsoft, Intel, Cisco and
dozens of other high-tech firms again appealed to the White House for those
reforms in a letter on improving the jobs picture.

"For the United States to remain a world leader in innovation, we need to
increase America's domestic pipeline of highly skilled workers, while also
attracting and retaining the world's best and brightest workers," the 87
executives wrote.

High-tech firms say the dip in H-1B applications is due to the downturn in the
economy, which has swept the employment ranks at Silicon Valley and other tech
firms.

Proponents of reforms say the dip in H-1B applications supports calls for a
demand-based system. And they say such flexibility is needed to ensure companies
will be able to hire more from abroad -- beyond 65,000 slots -- when the economy
strengthens and they begin to expand their ranks.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 10, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Few Americans seem eager to try their hands at farm work

BYLINE: Garance Burke

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 1069 words


VISALIA, CALIF. - As the economy has tanked during the past two years, a debate
has raged about whether immigrants are taking jobs that Americans want. Here,
amid the sweltering vineyards of the largest farm state, the answer is no.

Few Americans apply for jobs harvesting fruits and vegetables in California,
where one of every eight people is out of work, according to government data for
a federal seasonal farmworker program analyzed by the Associated Press.

And the few who do apply through official channels usually do not stay on in the
fields, a point that comedian Stephen Colbert - dressed as a field hand - has
alluded to in recent broadcasts on Comedy Central.

"It's just not something that most Americans are going to pack up their bags and
move here to do," said Steve Fortin, a farmer who pays foreign workers $10.25 an
hour to trim strawberry plants for six weeks each summer at his nursery near the
Nevada border.

Fortin has spent $3,000 this year ensuring that domestic workers have first dibs
on his jobs in the sparsely populated stretch of the state, advertising in
newspapers and on an electronic job registry. But he has not had any takers, and
only one farmer in the state hired anyone using a little-known, little-used
program to hire foreign farmworkers the legal way - through guest-worker visas.

Since January, California farmers have posted ads for 1,160 farmworker positions
open to U.S. citizens and legal residents seeking work.

Only 233 people applied after being linked with the jobs through unemployment
offices in California, Texas, Nevada and Arizona. One grower brought on 36 U.S
citizens or legal permanent residents. No one else hired any.

"It surprises me, too, but we do put the information out there for the public,"
said Lucy Ruelas, who manages the California Employment Development Department's
agricultural services unit. "If an applicant sees the reality of the job, they
might change their mind."

The California figures represent a small sample of efforts to recruit domestic
workers under the H-2A Guest Worker Program, but they provide a snapshot of how
hard it is to lure Americans to farm labor - and to get growers to use the
program.

Fortin is one of just 23 of the estimated 40,900 full-time farmers and ranchers
in California who petitioned this year to bring in foreign farmworkers through
legal means, the government data showed. The Labor Department did not respond to
a request for comment about the findings.

More than half of the farmworkers in the United States are illegal immigrants,
according to the Labor Department, and another fourth of them were born outside
the country. Proponents of tougher immigration laws - as well as the United Farm
Workers of America - say that farmers are used to a cheap, largely undocumented
workforce and that if growers raised wages and improved working conditions, the
jobs would attract Americans.

So far, a tongue-in-cheek effort by Colbert and the UFW to get Americans to take
farm jobs has been more effective in attracting applicants than the official
channels.

The UFW in June launched the "Take Our Jobs Campaign," inviting people to go
online and apply.

About 8,600 people filled out an application form, but only seven have been
placed in farm jobs, UFW President Arturo Rodriguez said.

Colbert told a House congressional committee last month that spending a day
picking beans in Upstate New York for an episode was "really, really hard."

Colbert's comedic activism makes a point Fortin is familiar with. Some Americans
referred for jobs at his nursery could not do the grueling work.

"A few years ago when domestic workers were referred here, we saw absentee
problems, and we had people asking for time off after they had just started," he
said. "Some were actually planting the plants upside down."

Economists have long debated whether local workers would take jobs in the field
if wages rose. Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural and resource economics
at the University of California at Davis, said that because so few farmers
participate in the H-2A program, the data's limitations make it hard to draw
national conclusions. Under current conditions, the figures show the workforce
will remain almost entirely immigrant, he said.

"Recruitment of U.S. workers in this program doesn't work well primarily because
employers have already identified who they want to bring in from abroad," Martin
said. "I don't think a lot of U.S. workers are going out there looking for a
seasonal job paying the minimum wage or a dollar more."

The Labor Department collects the same data about H-2A visa applications for all
50 states but does not make it publicly available. In response to a Freedom of
Information Act request from the Associated Press, the agency said it would
provide some records for nearly $11,000, but it was not clear whether the
information would show how many Americans had applied for farm jobs nationwide.

Even California officials say the guest-worker program needs fixing, despite a
reform effort announced in February by Labor Secretary Hilda Solis that was
meant to boost efforts to fill crop-picking jobs first with domestic workers.

Benjamin Reynosa, who was picking ruby-colored grapes in 90-degree heat near
Fowler on a recent morning, said he often is the only U.S. legal resident on
seasonal crews. He said most people hear about the jobs through word of mouth or
signs tacked outside rural stores, not the electronic registry.

"I've been working in agriculture for 22 years, and I can tell you there are
very few gringos out here," said Reynosa, 49, of Orange Cove. "If people know
English, they go to work in packinghouses or sit in an office."

In Tulare County, where the unemployment rate is above 16 percent, job seekers
on a recent morning crowded around computers at the job development agency.
Staff appeared unaware that the guest-worker program required them to advertise
the jobs.

"We just don't advertise those kinds of farmworker jobs," said Sandi Miller,
program coordinator for the county's workforce investment board.

Amid the U.S. Army recruitment fliers posted in the lobby, however, under the
heading "HOT JOB LEADS," was an ad for a farmworker position. The employer
expressed a preference for someone with Spanish fluency and tractor maintenance
skills.

Miller said it was the first time she had seen such a notice. She had not
received any applications, she said.

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

I'm not an immigration 'culprit'

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 210 words


David S. Broder was correct  to write in his column on immigration that I
offered an amendment to strike the guest-worker provision in the 2007
immigration bill ["The real culprits on immigration," April 29]. However, my
amendment was not designed to kill the bill. It was an expression by the Senate
that we didn't want an immigration bill to bring in millions of additional
immigrants to take jobs here in the United States that were needed by American
workers.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and others made a deal to support the bill if it
allowed American companies to import less-expensive foreign labor under the
federal guest-worker program. It is true that organized labor, representing
American workers, opposed the provision that would have brought in millions of
additional guest workers. They were right to be concerned about that issue.

But Mr. Broder is mistaken that our concern about bringing in millions of
additional guest workers is what killed the immigration bill. The notion that my
amendment striking the guest-worker provision helped kill the bill was the
propaganda of the Chamber of Commerce and others who supported bringing in more
guest workers. They are just wrong.

Byron Dorgan, Washington

The writer is a U.S. senator from North Dakota.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Unable to stay in U.S. or survive in Haiti

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 279 words


Maxo Osnac Dantica was "a casualty of two countries," said his cousin, the
writer Edwidge Danticat.

In fall 2004, he fled Haiti with his father, the Rev. Joseph Dantica, an
81-year-old Baptist minister whose church had been set afire by gangs. They
arrived in Miami, asked for asylum and were taken into custody at Krome Service
Processing Center, a federal immigration detention facility.

Soon after, when his father became violently ill and fell unconscious, Krome
workers accused him of faking his symptoms. Maxo Dantica was brought in to try
to talk with him but was crying so hard he could not speak. Belatedly taken to a
hospital, his father died a day later, shackled to a hospital bed.

Maxo Dantica was released on his birthday, the day after his father died, and
stayed in the United States for a time pursuing an immigration case, but an old
drug conviction was getting in the way. About three years ago, he returned to
Bel Air, overlooking downtown Port-au-Prince, and took up his father's work,
running the church school and raising money for neighbors who needed help. On
Jan. 12, when the earthquake struck, Dantica, 61, raced down a flight of stairs
in the church compound. The school building and apartments collapsed on him.

Each day, his wife and cousins, homeless and staying out of the city, returned
to the site, "lifting one rock at a time," said Danticat, the writer, who lives
in Miami and was awarded a MacArthur fellowship in the fall. On Tuesday, they
found part of his remains.

"He wasn't able to stay here, and he wasn't able to remain alive there,"
Danticat said. Amid the destruction, however, the church still stands.

-- Amy Goldstein in Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 23, 2010 Friday 5:53 PM EST

E.J. Dionne: Arizona's shameful 'immigration' bill

BYLINE: E.J. Dionne

LENGTH: 619 words



HIGHLIGHT: It is nothing short of astonishing that Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer
Friday signed a bill that could make it dangerous just to look Hispanic.


It is nothing short of astonishing that Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer Friday signed a
bill that could make it dangerous just to look Hispanic.

That's not the purpose of the new law, of course. As The Post reported, the law
"requires authorities in Arizona to question people about their immigration
status if there is reason to suspect they are in the country illegally." The
Arizona Republic notes that it "would require anyone whom police suspect of
being in the country illegally to produce 'an alien registration document,' such
as a green card or other proof of citizenship, such as a passport or Arizona
driver's license."

What does this mean in practice? Here's what the Republic -- not by any stretch
a left-wing newspaper -- said about the bill in an editorial:

"The broad anti-immigrant bill passed by the Legislature this week makes it a
crime to be in the country illegally and gives local cops the job of demanding
documentation if they have reasonable suspicion someone lacks it.

The need to carry proper 'papers' falls squarely on Arizona's Latino population
-- including those born and raised in the Grand Canyon State. The bill invites
racial profiling and ignores the fact that Latinos are an intrinsic part of
Arizona's history and its future. Arizona's senators should know that.

The bill . . . is bringing thundering bad publicity that will echo for years to
come. It will lead to lost economic-development opportunities, lost tourism and
lost opportunities to expand our trade and commercial ties with Mexico."

It's unbelievable that many who say they mistrust government overreach could
support a law of this sort. And as the organization Faith in Public Life noted,
powerful religious voices have now been raised against it -- including those of
conservatives.

The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of National Hispanic Christian Leadership
Conference, put things plainly: "If you are Hispanic in Arizona, you just became
a suspect and open to police harassment."

The New Evangelical Partnership for the Common Good declared that the law would
have the effect of "mandating racial profiling, criminalizing ministry to
undocumented immigrants, separating immigrant families, and exacerbating a
climate of fear and suspicion that pits neighbor against neighbor." It called it
a "wholly unbiblical and immoral law."

And Gideon Aronoff, the president and CEO of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society,
said the law means that "Arizonans are now living in a world where police may
impound vehicles transporting anyone found to be an undocumented immigrant,
which means that Arizonans who don't check the papers of the kids they drive to
Sunday school may now be engaging in illegal activity."

It's good that President Obama condemned this bill -- and very sad that Sen.
John McCain, long a reasonable and humane voice on immigration but now facing a
tough Republican primary, supported it.

"Obviously there is very high frustration over the issue of illegal
immigration," Joe Rubio, lead Arizona organizer for the Industrial Areas
Foundation, told me shortly after Brewer signed the bill. "Nobody likes it."

Yet the new law, he said, "gives lip service to protecting the border, but does
nothing of the sortÂ¿.This is just plainly anti-American, anti-humanitarian."

There is also worry among police officers that the bill would discourage
cooperation with law enforcement and take resources away from basic crime
fighting. As Rubio put it, "People are not going to report crimes if they feel
they're in jeopardy."

The law is certain to be challenged in Court and is likely to be reviewed by the
Justice Department. But legitimate concern about illegal immigration should
never have been translated into a law like this.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       April 26, 2010 Monday 11:00 AM EST

Financial Regulation vote, Arizona immigration, more -- Post Politics Hour

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr., Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2149 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Post's Perry Bacon Jr. was online April 26 at 11 a.m. ET to take
your questions about the latest political news and to preview the week ahead.


The Post's Perry Bacon Jr. was online April 26 at 11 a.m. ET to take your
questions about the latest political news and to preview the week ahead.

____________________

Chicago: Did Lindsey Graham throw a temper tantrum or does he have a point?

washingtonpost.com: On climate bill, Democrats work to overcome Graham's
immigration objections

Perry Bacon Jr: I think both. It is hard to imagine Congress passing both of
these bills this summer, with SCOTUS and everything else happening. But he does
seem to be making a bit of personal complaint; harry reid is moving immigration
ahead for political reasons.

_______________________

BOTTOM LINE: What will Crist's decision be? Bold prediction time!

Perry Bacon Jr: No way he keeps running as a Republican. I think he goes
independent, but he could just drop out of the race.

_______________________

Reg Reform: As a Republican, I feel that we're only hurting our chances in
November by opposing this Senate bill (yes I know it's not a perfect bill and
they're still negotiating etc). But the fact is that today we're going to vote
against bringing the bill to the Senate floor. Is this clearly a dumb political
move or am I missing something?

Perry Bacon Jr: I think if Republicans permanently block this bill, that is not
smart. But I think delaying it now won't matter much if ultimately some
Republicans do reach a deal.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Where can I go to read the Obama administration proposal on
comprehensive immigration reform?

Perry Bacon Jr: I don't think there is one. To be fair, Congress is the
legislative branch charged with writing bills. Obama has in the past supported
immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship for people here illegally.

Actually, check this out. http://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/immigration

_______________________

Montgomery Village, Md.: Perry

How does it possibly benefit Republicans in the Senate to be painted as NOT EVEN
WILLING TO DEABATE financial reform in today's vote. Yes, they can scream all
they want about how imperfect the bill is, but then get it on the floor and
debate it. Isn't that what "the world's greatest deliberative body" is supposed
to do?

Or are they afraid that is one of their members breaks ranks now, they have no
hope of amending the bill? McConnell et al really have a death wish ! Two thirds
of the country -- probably even more -- want Wall Street reform and these guys
won't even let it be debated! Smart, real smart.

Perry Bacon Jr: Mitch McConnell has had a pretty effective 16 months as
opposition leader; I would be careful of dismissing his strategic decisions at
this point. (Obama still hasn't gotten congressional support for closing Gitmo,
even though both presidential candidates supported that in 2008, McConnell has a
lot to do with that)

I happen to think if Republicans back the bill at the end of the day, it won't
matter that they slowed it at this month. I"m not sure this move helps them that
much though.

_______________________

Hackensack, NJ: More about Graham - he's walking away from legislation he's
worked on for years and genuinely feels is important for his constituents and
for national security, because of a scheduling issue?

First, why would he give up on something so important to him just to make a
procedural point?

Second, why would constituents put up with a congressman who says X is vitally
important to our interests, but I am not going to do X?

Perry Bacon Jr: I think constituents put up with such things all the time.
Congress has been debating immigration for four years, everyone thinks it's
important, nothing has been done, and many of the members who say it is
important keep coming back to congress after reelections.

I don't think his work on energy is over yet.

_______________________

SCOTUS Nominee: What sort of timeline are we looking at for an announcement?

Perry Bacon Jr: Next two weeks.

_______________________

Herndon, VA: Perry: what are we to make of the latest out of Nevada? Does Sue
Lowden's "chickens for check ups" proposal have any legs? Is Reid going to
benefit from the backlash?

Perry Bacon Jr: I suspect it will not become federal law. And I think when the
GOP picks a nominee, Reid will highlight remarks like this. I think he has to
win by going negative on whoever the Republican running against him is.

_______________________

Back Then Sue Couldn't Vote or Hold Political Office: As Sue Lowden harkens back
to "the olden days" for ideas to lower today's U.S. health care cost, someone
should remind her that women couldn't vote or hold political office when doctors
accepted chickens as payment for their services. During those times, whiskey was
used to anesthetize patients and sanitize operating instruments. For a person
who wants to replace Harry Reid, is that the best example she could come up with
in finding an ideal time for solving a major challenge facing the nation? Is
this revelation and her resistance to change reflective of her intellect? Is Sue
Lowden the best Republicans can offer as an alternative to Harry Reid? One
wonders what historical time period she'd pick for ideas on immigration or
financial reform.

Perry Bacon Jr: Lots of questions. I think perhaps she didn't think through all
of the points you made. The broader point, as Paul Krugman has made, is that the
cost of check-ups is not a huge medical problem in terms of costs; it's
diabetes, end of life care, etc.

_______________________

Question on the Supreme Court nominee...: Perry, I'm thinking that a Republican
filibuster of a Supreme Court nominee might be a good thing.

If Obama could be persuaded to nominate someone like Pam Karlan or Harold Koh,
and their nomination gets filibustered, then Democrats would have carte blanche
to filibuster future Supreme Court nominees of Republican presidents.

If the Republicans want to cross that Rubicon, shouldn't the Democrats let them?

Perry Bacon Jr: Umm, it depends on whether we want filibusters of judicial
nominees. I don't really think an actual filibuster is really necessary here.
From the last couple of appointments, you can see the obvious pattern: the
make-up of the senate is the important thing regarding nominees. With pretty
strong senate majorities, Bush picked Roberts and Alito, and Obama picked
Sotomayor, nominees who fit those presidents' ideologies, but did not have long
records of ideological writings that would inflame the other party. If there
were 65 Democrati senators, I think you get into Harold Koh, Goodwin Liu
possibilities or on the other end, whoever is the next Scalia. My sense is
presidents of both parties would like to avoid a filibuster because it can slow
down your agenda on other issues, and in reality a Scalia versus Roberts (or a
Stevens versus a Sotomayor) don't differ that on issues. In other words, a
passionate liberal versus a more cautious one will come to the same conclusions
on most issues.

_______________________

Effective?: Okay other than being the lead-off soundbite on the morning news
every day and determining the focus of overall news coverage, can you name one
accomplishment McConnell can show for his 16 months of intrasigence?

He got whipped on Ledbetter, Stimulus, HCR, well you name it, I do not think
that there has ever been a more thoroughly whipped minority leader in American
history. All McConnell has accomplished is ensuring that the Republican position
has been silenced on every piece of legislation this session.

Perry Bacon Jr: You don't think determining the news coverage is important?
Really? I pointed out Gitmo earlier, but I think the tenor of debate in
Washington has been altered by the GOP's ability to keep all of their members
unified on a bunch of key issues.

_______________________

Westcliffe, Colorado: So both parties do better in opposition than in
governance? Seems to me the evidence is clear. When in charge, both look like
the entrants in a one-legged butt kicking contest.

Time to call it a night for representative government and evolve? After all,
what's wrong with admitting defeat and moving up and onwards?

Perry Bacon Jr: Not sure I understand your question, but let me try.
Politically, parties often do bad in congressional elections in the sixth year
of a two-term presidency. (Think 2006) And I suppose in recent history it has
been hard for a party to win three straight presidential elections. I confess my
political science classes are too distant a memory to recall any other basic
trends.

But a political party is a group organized based on policy goals, right? And in
that sense, the Democrats have addressed a bunch of their big policy goals in
the last 16 months, as Republicans did from 2001 to 2003.

_______________________

I think he goes independent, but he could just drop out of the race. : That's
not a bold prediction! Does he go independent or drop out of the race?

Perry Bacon Jr: I think he will run as an independent and I think there is room
there with a smart campaign, casting himself as a outsider to a flawed politics
as usual, casting the Tea Party movement as extreme, saying he will come to
Washington and be a member of neither of two parties more interested in politics
than governing, etc. He will have trouble raising money, but he has huge name ID
in the state. If he is smart about holding events that draw press attention and
highlight his independent stance, this could work. If he allows this to be cast
as simply him doing the most obvious political thing, it wont' work.

_______________________

Helena, Montana: Jon Cohen has a news item that over 2/3 of Americans support
the Democrats financial reform package, so the Republicans are going to vote for
it, right? Or is it only when public opinion supports their position that it has
to be taken into account?

Perry Bacon Jr: I think at the end of this debate, a bunch of Republicans will
vote for this. This is is not health care, where the GOP activists were so
opposed few Republican congressmen could vote for the bill and be safe
politically.

_______________________

New York: I'm a moderate Republican who believes in strong financial reform. How
does Mitch McConnell stop me from voting for advancing the current Senate
version? What are his arguments? Thanks.

Perry Bacon Jr: His argument among Republicans on this kind of procedural vote
is if you oppose it now, you will have more leverage in the negotiations. Like I
said earlier, he is not telling them they can never support the bill, just not
now.

_______________________

Washington, DC: After this financial regulation issues concludes, what issues
come up for debate/consideration in the next 90 days?

Perry Bacon Jr: I assume Supreme Court, the Democrats bill to restrict money in
politics following the Citizens United decision, appropriations bills, energy or
immigration legislation, lots still to go.

_______________________

RE: "...unified on a bunch of key issues": If this Republican unity results in
no major accomplishments and the US economy continues to improve, might they
just personify the term "ending with a whimper" rather than gaining significant
seats in Congress this fall?

Perry Bacon Jr: I am loath to predict elections happening months from now, but i
think Republican opposition has helped lead to Dem retirements in a bunch of
conservative-leaning places. Republicans will gain lots of seats in districts
where no incumbent is running, particularly in the House. And I think the
economy matters little in those places. In a place like Nevada, I don't know.
Does economic improvement help reverse numbers for someone like Harry Reid, who
is well-known but not well-liked? I don't know.

_______________________

More on McConnell: I interpret the previous poster's point that winning the
daily narrative is only important if it leads to substantive policy victories.
On HCR, Republicans won most (media) battles but lost the war when the bill was
passed, particularly given that blocking it seemed possible.

Perry Bacon Jr: I would say winning the daily narrative helps win elections and
winning elections empowers you to make policy.

_______________________

Florida Conservative Here: Crist will pull less than 15% of GOP voters if he
runs as an independent, and there's no reason to think that a Meek voter will
switch. So he makes himself look cheap, and Meek wins. Lose-lose for the rest of
us.

Perry Bacon Jr: The first part i agree with. The second part I"m not sure. Meek
voted for health care reform, the bailout and every part of the Obama agenda.
There's room to run an anti-politics-as-usual campaign against him and Rubio.

_______________________

Perry Bacon Jr: Thanks for the questions folks.

Perry

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 3, 2010 Monday 11:00 AM EST

Outlook: '5 Myths about immigration'

BYLINE: Doris Meissner, Sr. Fellow, Migration Policy Institute,
washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 2235 words



HIGHLIGHT: Doris Meissner, senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, was
online Monday, May 3, at 11 a.m. ET to discuss her Outlook article titled, "5
Myths about immigration."


Doris Meissner, senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, was online
Monday, May 3, at 11 a.m. ET to discuss her Outlook article titled, "5 Myths
about immigration."

Meissner was commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service from
1993-2001.

____________________

Doris Meissner: Hi. Doris Meissner here from the Migration Policy Institute
(MPI) in DC to talk about the Outlook piece, Five Myths about immigration.

_______________________

Cambridge, Mass.: I oppose large-scale immigration, whether legal or illegal,
for a number of policy reasons. Do you have any advice on how one can put
forward this view without being labelled a "racist" or some other epithet? It's
difficult to debate people whose first reaction is to hurl insults.

Doris Meissner: The most important thing, especially with issues that are
emotional as immigration is, would be not to start with the position of being
anti- or pro-large-scale immigration. Instead, to look at the evidence and
information and then reach conclusions and make arguments based on information,
rather than pre-determined opinions.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: I don't know if anyone can quantify this, but one of the
"lesser known" things about immigrants, over history, is the second generation
tends to be among the most productive workers. First, one of the ironies is that
immigrant families tend to be the most stable nuclear families as opposed to
most other groups of Americans. Second, they tend to instill a sense of working
hard upon their children. I know this is a generality, but overall, there always
seems to have been a good amount of truth to this. At a time in a few decades
when we will need a sharp increase in productivity to help our global
competitive edge, highly productive children of immigrants may be just what our
economy needs.

Doris Meissner: It is a generality, but one borne out by lots of experience and
research. It is true, tho, to the extent that that next generation must be
equipped with the education and skills to succeed. The motivation is and will be
there - it's in the nature of newcomers. But we are now in a knowledge-based
economy and we need to work hard to be sure our education system allows these
younger workers to be able to compete and succeed. Important not just for them,
but for us all.

_______________________

San Jose, Calif.: Do undocumented workers contribute more tax moneys than  they
use in state services?

Doris Meissner: Overall, the research shows that foreign-born workers - both
legal and unauthorized - probably contribute more in taxes than they use in
services. Taxes in this context are not only payroll taxes, but sales taxes,
etc. And for those who are in the country illegally, they are ineligible for
nearly all assistance programs. Problem is that the large share of the taxes
come to federal coffers, and most of the costs (schools,for example) are the
responsibility of local levels of government. So there's a disconnect - plus at
the macro level, minus at the local. Another good reason we need immigration
reform - to fix this disconnect.

_______________________

Berkeley, Calif.: Ms. Meissner, you were quoted in 1996 in the San Francisco
Chronicle as promising that the border would be "controlled"  within five years,
i.e. by 2001. (California Border Patrols Busier Than Ever. Illegal immigrants
line up despite tightened controls (San Francisco Chronicle, Jan. 31, 1996))

Would you care to explain your failure?

Doris Meissner: I don't consider it my failure. The assumption underlying border
control is that the border must be effectively managed, which we began to do in
the 1990s. But from the standpoint of illegal immigration, border enforcement is
essential but not sufficient. We tried very hard to make the case that we were
doing our part in tackling the problem of a chaotic border. But other steps also
needed to be taken, particularly changes in the law that would make it possible
to have strong enforcement of employers and enough visas so people could come to
the country for work purposes when jobs were legitimately available. We are
still having that debate today, 15 years later, and lawmakers have still be
unable or unwilling to put into place other measures that would make it possible
to enforce the border where illegal immigration is concerned.

_______________________

Tempe, Ariz.: Having lived in San Diego for 10 years and now in Phoenix, Ariz.,
for the past 6 years, I find the count of 11 million illegals living in the USA
to be unbelievable. It must be closer to 25 million PLUS. Who came up with this
count?

Doris Meissner: The number is widely agreed on and derived by Census bureau
statisticians and outside experts. It is an estimate, to be sure, but it is
based on U.S. census data, immigration statistics regarding entries and visas,
data on the foreign-born population, birth and death data from Mexico and other
major sending countries, along with other similar data point. It is a reliable
number for lawmakers and the public to use.

_______________________

Annandale, Va.: Overall, legal immigration is good and the benefits should be
properly understood as your 5 Myths article addresses. But let us honestly
address the many adverse implications of Illegal immigration. What are the
truths in terms of costs to cities and states, crime, respect for the rule of
law, impact on local schools and communities?

Doris Meissner: Your point is important, and I tried to answer it in an earlier
reply, so I hope you'll take a look at that.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: I have concerns about the large percentage of Hispanic immigrants
who have an education level of less than ninth grade. According to the Pew
Hispanic Center data from 2008, 34 percent of foreign born Hispanics fall in
this category. Policy experts always indicate that even only a high school
education will be insufficient for American jobs in the future. It seems to me
that we are importing an underclass.

Doris Meissner: This is a very important concern. I touched on it to an extent
in an earlier answer. In addition, it is among the reasons why illegal
immigration is a problem. We should not be in the grip of a system where we, as
a country, have abdicated the responsibility to determine how many people come
here and for what reasons. Immigration reform needs to include provisions for
establishing future flows of legal workers, so that there is a way for employers
to apply for help when they legitimately need it, but so that the process is
above board and regulated. Past work that I and MPI have done has proposed a
Standing Commission that would advise Congress every two years on the numbers
who should be admitted for work purposes, so that the system can be flexible and
resposive to changing economic conditions, which would include criteria such as
education and availability of native-born workers. A provision somewhat like our
idea is in the draft outline for legislation that Senator Schumer announced last
week.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Lets assume that Congress musters up the courage and votes to
pass a comprehensive immigration bill that includes both border security and a
path to citizenship for those already here (I know, a big assumption). How do we
deal with the impression provided to the following generations of illegal
immigrants that if you make can just make it into the U.S. and wait long enough
you will be legalized?

Doris Meissner: The message you cite is an important point. I think the only
answer to it is to enact reforms that provide sufficient visas for future flows
of workers that are responsive to the legitimate economic needs in the country -
with an aging society - but then to combine that with strong enforcement,
especially at the workplace so that only legal workers can be hired. This levels
the playing field for American workers and also sends the message abroad that
there are not jobs, unless one comes here with a visa. Ultimately, of course,
countries from which large numbers of unauthorized immigrants come must develop
more effectively and quickly, so that migration is a choice, not an act of
desperation.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Alan Greenspan was quoted as saying that illegal immigrants make
a "significant contribution" to the American economy. Though some regions of the
of country and some sectors of the economy benefit more (and some less), do you
believe that illegal immigrants provide a net benefit to the American economy?

Doris Meissner: It has provided a net benefit to the economy during a period of
sustained economic expansion and growth, which has been the case in the U.S.
until the recession hit. But that does not mean that illegal immigration should
be the way to achieve the positive benefits of immigration. The call for
reforming our immigration laws is often described as a call for better
enforcemeent, amnesty, etc. In fact, done properly, it is a call for an overhaul
of a system of rules that are outdated and not suited to today's economy or the
one that we believe lies ahead.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Am I mistaken in thinking that there's been real resistance to
emphasizing the role of employers in encouraging illegal immigration? Aren't
there employers who bargain directly with smugglers, so that the illegal
immigrants already know that they've got a job waiting for them, before they set
out to come here? This kind of illegality seems especially sinister given the
involvement of the smugglers in drug trafficking and their "war" against the
authorities in Mexico.

Doris Meissner: You are correct, and thank you for making that point. Like
everything else, however, there are many kinds of employers. Many, and probably
most, employers who hire people illegally would obey the rules if the rules were
realitic in helping them meet their needs for workers. What we need is a system
that has realistic requirements for employers who want to comply, and then focus
enforcement against those who truly want to skirt the law and engage in the
kinds of activities you describe.

_______________________

Cumberland, Md.: Is there any research that indicates the criminal activity of
illegal immigrants -- especially relative to the rest of the population?

Doris Meissner: The available data are national and they show that foreign-born
rates of criminal activity - among legal and illegal immigrants - are
significantly less than that of native-born. State and local level data are more
spotty, but the data available displays the same pattern.

_______________________

America: You insist on speaking only of immigration in general. You recognize no
distinction between legal and illegal (which you insist on calling
"unauthorized") immigration. But it is obvious that people who have met the
educational and vocational requirements to come here legally are more likely to
do well that those who sneaked across the border. What would your answers to
your "myths" be if you were writing only about ILLEGAL immigrants?

Doris Meissner: I try to make the distinction between legal and illegal where it
is germane. At the same time, when it comes to issues like economic impact, the
effects have to do with foreign-born workers overall and so it is important to
understand the issues of large numbers of newcomers overall. In using the term
"unauthorized", I am using the official Census term. I also frequently use the
term "illegal immigration" to describe the phenomenon. I do write frequently
about illegal immigration,but we were using a broader lens for this piece.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: For those that are so concerned about illegal immigration, please
look at the legal immigration. There are lots of new Hindu (India) owned IT
firms that are abusing legal immigrants, bringing them here with legal work
visas and paying this people very little. Labor laws need to be enforced for
legal and illegal humans

Doris Meissner: I agree completely.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: I am old enough to think that, frankly, the problem of illegal
immigration can't be solved, absent truly draconian policies. The reforms the
Reagan administration put forth, including amnesty, were sold as being a
solution to the issue and it has grown and grown over the past 25 years. Social
and economic conditions in Mexico and Central America are so dire for so much of
the population that millions are willing to take enormous risks to get here.

Doris Meissner: These are issues that must be managed - they cannot be solved as
long as the conditions you describe are with us. But we can do a much better job
of managing them and upholding our essential humanity and values as a nation in
so doing.

_______________________

Doris Meissner: It's time to close. Thanks so much for all the EXCELLENT,
well-informed questions. I wish I could have taken them all. Tried to cover as
fully as possible the range of topics you raised. Thanks too for the spirit of
learning and understanding implicit in the questions. We need more light and
less heat to solve these dilemmas and this chat has been very encouraging in
that regard.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                        May 4, 2010 Tuesday 12:00 PM EST

Times Square bomber suspect Faisal Shahzad

BYLINE: Gary Ackerman, Terrorism, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 5137 words



HIGHLIGHT: A 30-year-old American immigrant from Pakistan was escorted off a
plane bound for Dubai late Monday at John F. Kennedy International Airport and
arrested in connection with a failed attempt to detonate a car bomb in Times
Square, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced.


A 30-year-old American immigrant from Pakistan was escorted off a plane bound
for Dubai late Monday at John F. Kennedy International Airport and arrested in
connection with a failed attempt to detonate a car bomb in Times Square,
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced.

Terrorism expert Gary Ackerman was online Tuesday, May 4, at Noon ET to discuss
the alleged Times Square bomber and the breaking developments in the case.

____________________

Gary Ackerman: This is Gary Ackerman, Assistant Director for Research and
Communication at the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and
Responses to Terrorism (www.start.umd.edu). I am happy to answer any questions
related to the failed NY Time Square bomb plot.

_______________________

Chatham, Mass.: First, if TTP is solidly linked, what does this do to the
positions that it may be possible to reconcile the Quetta Shura, and disconnect
the Taliban generally from al-Qaeda since they have not operated outside
South/Central Asia?

Second, any "reverse" thoughts on the level of incompetence in the bomb? After
Army training, I could do a LOT better, but I still wouldn't have made some of
those mistakes when I was 13 (a long time ago). Speculate on this being a
demonstration rather than a serious attempt, or is sheer incompetence an
adequate explanation?

Gary Ackerman: Those are excellent questions, and I'll tryt and answer them as
best I can in this brief forum.

1. First of all, TTP is linked, but not the same as, the so-called Afghan
Taliban. There are, moreover, umpteen militant groups in the orbit of the TTP,
all vying for internal supremacy in the movemnt and local power, so the
situation is pretty complicated. If the TTP is behind these attacks as it
claims, the motivations could be anything from a true commitment to joining AQ
in its global jihad, to an internal power-play between leaders within the
Taliban's milieu.

As for

_______________________

Dallas, Tex.: After what happened in Dallas and now Times Square, it seems like
law enforcement is doing a pretty good job (although it was luck that the bomb
was ineffective). This guy will be tried and probably go to prison, but that is
not much of a deterrent. How do we punish this guy so that it is a effective
deterrent?

Gary Ackerman: On the one hand, law enforcement did a good job at what they do
best - identification and apprehension of the perpetrator after the crime has
been committed. On the other hand, this case did not necessarily display prowess
at the much more difficult task of preventing and interdicting terrorist plots
before they get to the stage where we have to rely on luck or the incompetence
of the perpetrator to prevent injury. However, generally, performance has also
been pretty good the past few years in interdicting plots before they come to
fruition.

As for deterrence, that is a much trickier question, one that many people are
looking at. The best overall deterrent at the moment is argued to be so called
"deterrence by denial," which is basically if we raise the possibility that the
terrorists won't succeed in their attacks, they will eventually stop trying (or
at least try something or somewhere else). This, of course is a partial solution
at best.

_______________________

Gary Ackerman: To continue to Chatham, Mass:

The construction of the device was extremely incompetent. I do not think that
this displays any kind of 'warning' or 'demonstration' - jihadists are not known
for this type of behavior. Rather it indicates, in my opinion, that either the
trainers or their student are grossly incompetent, either of which makes it less
likely the extrmely operationally proficient TTP was directly involved.

_______________________

Cabin John: How fair is it to say that persons associated with the Pakistani
Taliban instigated, or at least aided, the Fort Hood shooter and the underwear
bomber? We don't know yet, but the Times Sq. bomber could be strike three. If
so, isn't it fair to conclude that the Taliban in Pakistan is enemy no. 1 in the
war on terrorism, and we should significantly step up our efforts at fighting
them? Even if this means (1) disentangling ourselves from, or at least
deemphasizing our participation in, ancient battles between tribal warlords in
Afghanistan, and (2) confronting the Pakistani gov't who seems to be unwilling
or unable to take on the Taliban.

Gary Ackerman: Nidal Hassan, the Fort Hood shooter, has been most closely tied
to Anwar al-Awlaki, the radical former US imam, who is aligned with AQ and the
AQ in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), rather than the TTP.

One shouldn't get the TTP necessarily mixed up with (AQAP) or AQ central.
Nonetheless, it seems that all three are now planning to attack the US homeland.
As for the Pakistani government, most of it (with the exception of some diehards
in the Inter Services Intelligence agency) seem to be coming around to viewing
the Taliban, especially the TTP, as a high-threat. My concern is that they have
proven themselves only minimally capble of delaing with this threat.

_______________________

Detroit, Mich.: Why are the White House and others so hesitant to say what is
blatantly obvious, that we are at war with Islamist extremists who take a
perverted view of Islam. I understand concerns about racial profiling and
political correctness from civil libertarians, but his is really ridiculous.
These extremists are determined to kill innocent Americans.

Gary Ackerman: Well, I do not know the answer to your question, other than to
say that politicians generally only make statements with one thing in mind -
politics.

It is clear to almost everyone that the largest (but by far not the only)
terrorist threat to the US is from Islamic extrmeists. Whether defining this as
a war is a good idea is less clear. A war implies somthing with a strategy,
clear endpoint and identifiable enemy. I myself am more comfortable using the
metaphor of a "chronic illness" that is far er to "manage" than to cure.

_______________________

D.C.: Are you surprised that there hasn't been a terrorist attack on the N.Y. or
D.C. subway system? Of course, as a D.C. subway user I hope such an attack never
happens, but to a non-expert, they just seem like very easy targets.

On a related note, why do you think such subway/train attacks have happened in
Europe but not here?

Thanks.

Gary Ackerman: The truth is that subways (in particular the NY subway) have
become prime targets. The jihadist literature often mentions the subway as an
attractive target, and as you know rail systems have been attackedi n Europe.

However, the lack of attacks here on the NYC subway has been a mixture of luck
and good law enforcement, rather than a lack of trying. There have been several
interdicted plots on the subway, from a plot in 1997 (read the book Jiohad in
Brooklyn) to last year's interdicted plot by Najibullah Zazi and his cohorts.

_______________________

Riverdale, Md.: The vehicle was packed with items that have explosive
properties, but, when combined, would not seem to be especially volatile in the
absence of a source explosion or charge (i.e., detonator). Was there any such
item found on or in the vehicle? What was the intended method of detonation?

Gary Ackerman: I am not a technical explosives expert, but I do know enough to
realize the amateurishness of the tradecraft employed in producing the device.
Without helping future would-be bombers, I will say that you are correct to
notice the aparent lack of a detonator. It seems (to me) that Shahzad intended
for the firecrackers to set off the propane which would somehow detonate the
fertilizer, but there are so many mistakes in such a plan that one cannot but
marvel at the incompetence of the bomb builder.

_______________________

Providence, R.I.: Will this suspect be interrogated by by at least one Muslim
who can identify in some way with him, treat him kindly,  help him to see that
what he did was wrong, get him to  cooperate? Or will the interrogators use
bullying and torture?

Gary Ackerman: I do not know exactly what will happen with the interrogation,
but I can tell you that in my experience, at least for suspects arrested in the
United States by regular law enforcement (as opposed maybe to black ops,
military, etc.), they are generally treated humanely and are afforded all the
protections the law allows. This includes the provision of a translator if
needed and professional conduct by the agents and detectives involved.

_______________________

D.C.: I understand the general public's desire to know about details on how
these cases break (e.g., the whole bit about the car sale and cell phone), but
why help the terrorists by publicizing their mistakes? Won't they just read
these news account and make sure to avoid those mistakes in the future?

On a related question, the government sources for these details have to know
this, yet they always provide the details to the media. What's the thinking
behind that? Is it a matter of hoping the public sees how their cooperation can
help in investigations, or is it more a personal matter of feeling like an
important source?

Thanks.

Gary Ackerman: I think you have identified a real issue regarding the balance
between informing the public (and thus bolstering public faith in government
capabilities and allaying fears and rumors) and tipping off adversaries for
their next try. I will tell you that these issues are thought about deeply
before information is made public. In this case, the device was so much more
amateurish than instruction that are available even online that I don't think
that those details are a security risk. Moreover, I think letting the enemy know
that disposable cell-phones are not foolproof might introduce more uncertainty
into their attack planning in future than it will inform them about what they
probably would have figured out on their own anyway.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: One report I saw said that the fireworks material (black
powder) was contained in a gun safe that weighs about 75 pounds. That's almost
too much for one person to lift and carry by himself. Are you aware of any other
indicators that other people might be involved in the plot?

Gary Ackerman: Well, first of all, anyone who has gone on vacation with their
family will confirm that motivated individuals can carry far more than 75 pounds
of baggage when they want to (or at least with sufficient nagging).

Seriously, though, it is possible to fill the gun safe after it is in the car.
This does not mean that others weren't involved in planning/training for the
plot. However, all indications so far are that Shahzad actually built the device
on his own.

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: LATEST NEWS: 12:16 p.m. Two arrested in Pakistan

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: How was he able to make it all the way onto the plane?
Shouldn't he have been stopped at the check in counter?

Gary Ackerman: More recent reports say that he was actually stopped at the
counter. Cynics would however argue that it is far more dramatic to stop a plane
just as it is about to take off than to arrest someone at the ticket counter.
Either way, I am confident that there is no way the plane would have been able
to leave the US with him on board once they knew who he was and where he was
going.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Sen. McCain among others have come out this morning with
suggestions that the suspect should not be extended the due process rights
normally provided to a criminal accused under the U.S. Constitution and criminal
laws. What possible legal basis could there be for withholding such rights, or
treating him as other than an accused person under the relevant criminal and
constitutional law? The laws of war do not apply, and so it is simply not
legally permissible to treat him as an "enemy combatant", so what else is there?

Gary Ackerman: I am a firm believer that existing US laws and rights are
perfectly sufficient to deal with such cases. It is a slippery slope to start
operating outside the constitution and legal system in such a clear cut case of
an American citizen arrested in the United States.

_______________________

Laurel, Md.: Two questions about video: Have they determined if the suspect is
the guy changing shirts?

I though I had read that experience in some other parts of the world, like India
and Indonesia, had shown it was very difficult for suspects to get away because
of being recorded near the event.

Gary Ackerman: As far as I am aware, the person changing shirts is not the
suspect who was arrested. Also, the quantity of surveillance varies greatly from
countr to country. Some places (like the UK) pretty much have thousands of
cmaeras in big cities, while in the US (out of privacy and other concerns) it is
not always so easy to blanket an area with surveillance.

_______________________

San Diego, Calif.: Is there any discussion that maybe the car bomb was intended
to fail? Or are investigators confident this suspect was an amateur?

Gary Ackerman: As I mentioned before, there have been no cases that I know of
where jihadists have intentionally set someone up to fail - it makes them look
far weaker than if they succeed (even though the terrorists will try to spin it
as a failure of US counterterrorism).

_______________________

Bowie, Md.: The event looks like something nearly impossible to prevent if
performed competently.

If he had made it to Dubai, would he have been extradited from there? Or could
he have gotten away by exiting the USA more quickly?

Gary Ackerman: You raise several important issues - it is indeed very difficult
to prevent a single individual from detonating a car bomb in a major city, but
not impossible. The concept of layered defense means that we can try everything
from intelligence to find out early about the plot, to target hardening to
reduce the explosive effects, but some things will still get through. Before
giving in to pessimism, however, you can look at the whole thing from the other
point of view. From the terrorist's side, a whole lot of things have to go right
- all together - for him to be a success. There are in many ways just as many
failure points in the terorrist's attack chain as there are in our
counterterrorism.

_______________________

Austin, Tex.: Thanks for taking our questions. I would like to press you a
little further on the possibility of this being a demonstration or trial run of
some sort. The level of incompetence just seems so high. Though I haven't done
so, I'm pretty sure I could google and find out what kind of fertilizer to buy.

Gary Ackerman: Don't discount the anxiety of doing something like this -
especially if you are not a seasoned pro. Even terrorists get nervous and
nervous folks make glaringly obvious mistakes. I'm not saying this was the case,
but before looking for a demonstration explanation, I would think that Occam's
Razor would suggest that we look at the perp's state of mind.

_______________________

"On the other hand, this case did not necessarily display prowess at the much
more difficult task of preventing and interdicting terrorist plots before they
get to the stage where we have to rely on luck or the incompetence of the
perpetrator to prevent injury.": To play devil's advocate here, why should we
have  expected law enforcement authorities to show that kind of  "prowess" in
this case, given the individual involved?  None of the items he purchased seem
to be out of the  ordinary. Is there anything in his past that we know of  that
would have warranted tracking his moves? During his  trip to Pakistan, did he
travel to regions or meet with  individuals that should have piqued the interest
of the  proper authorities?

Don't statements like the one you made here ignore  reality, that, sooner or
later, one person can slip through  the cracks and strike?

Gary Ackerman: I think if you look at another post I just made, you will see
that I do in fact agree with your comments. I did not mean to say that law
enforcment SHOULD have been able to prevent it, just that the outcome does not
point to any new or enhanced prowess in this regard.

_______________________

Some perspective, please: Gary, can you confirm a few things for me, so we have
a  clear understanding of the actual threat we've faced in  recent incidents? In
this case, if what I'm reading is true,  if the device in the car had gone off,
it would have  ignited, not detonated, and become a massive fireball, not  a
bomb? Is that correct?

Going back to the "Underpants Bomber," a few weeks  after the event, I read an
article from a U.K. paper (sorry,  don't remember which one) that stated that
research  showed that if his device had worked properly, he would  have only
killed himself and a passenger or two, and that  the explosion would not have
torn apart the plane. Is that  true? Thanks.

Gary Ackerman: Ok - we're getting into the chemistry and physics of explosives
here, which is not exactly my lane. At the risk of upsetting all the bomb techs
out there, I will tentatively suggest that you are correct. Even if it had
ignited, the lack of any substantial quantity of true explosive (the
firecrackers had too low quantities and the fertilizers lacked fuel oil) means
that most of the effects would have come from the propane canisters which will
have ignited and caused conglagration rather than detonation. Don't get me wrong
- a fireball can still cause a lot of dmage to human beings, but it won't have
the blast force of a large amount of true explosive.

As forthe Underpants bomber, I am not familiar with the exact amount of
explosive he had on him. On the one hand, it takes a fair amount to cause
catastrophic failure in a fuselage (see an old episode of Mythbusters for this).
On the other hand, even a relatively small amount of high-explosive can
penetrate the skin of the plane under pressure and along a weak point (see Ramzi
Yusef's attack on a plane in the Philippines in 1994 where someone was actually
sucked out from a large whole made by a nitro-glycerine based explosive).

_______________________

Rochester, N.Y.: How do US immigration officials deal with Pakistanis carrying
U.K. passports? Aren't U.K. passport holders allowed to enter the U.S. without a
visa?

Gary Ackerman: As far as I am aware, under the visa waiver program, you are
correct in that UK passport holders do not require a visa.

_______________________

Bridgewater, Mass.: It was heartening to hear the president say at long last
that "we will not cower in fear" -- in the past, it seems that that was exactly
what the authorities were suggesting. (That, and military over-reaction in
uninvolved countries.)

Do you have any idea whether the U.S. is seen as being more likely to fold under
terrorist pressure than Iraq did, for example?

Gary Ackerman: I think that, although the jihadists often paint the UIS as a
paper tiger, who will crumble at the first hint of violence (a belief largely
instilled by US pullouts from Beirut and Somalia), the US has shown itself to be
very resilient. I for one am proud that the often irascible New Yorkers have a
"business as usual" approach - the most impotant adivce in the terorrism context
can be gleaned from the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy - "Don't Panic"

_______________________

Springfield, Va.: Why was the man who flew the plane into the IRS building not
labeled as a terrorist, yet the Times Square bomber was automatically labeled
with that categorization? Weren't both acts meant to inflict fear in Americans?

Gary Ackerman: That is a good question, and presuming we know enough about the
motives of the IRS plane attacker and they were intended to affect a wider
audience for a political or ideological motive, I would have no problem
labelling him a terrorist. On the other hand, I am not a politician who has to
get elected and needs to pander to constituencies...

_______________________

Pittsburgh, Pa.: There was an episode of a TV series (possibly "Criminal Minds")
where the set-up was that terrorists launched a fake attack in order to study
how long it took for law enforcement and rescue squads to arrive and how they
operated, in order to plan a more effective future attack. Do you think that
might have been the case with Saturday evening's event at Times Square?

Gary Ackerman: It's a great plotline, but as I stated earlier, there is no
evidence of jihadists ever doing this. They do engage in dry runs, but usually
to see if they can get past security or if a bomb really works (again look at
Ramzi Yusef), but I believe that if they could get a car bomb into Times Square,
they would go for the big bang - especially since this will increase security at
this target.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: Had the airplane taken off with the suspect on board, I presume
the air carrier would have cooperated with authorities. Do we have a legal right
to order an airplane to return once it has left American airspace if it is an
American airline? Also, if the plane had landed in Dubai, wouldn't the
authorities there have detained the suspect?

Gary Ackerman: Interesting questions, and I assume that as long as the plane was
still in US airspace, it could have been "escorted" back. Even outside of US
airspace, there are precedents for US taking action (the plane carrying the
perps from the Achille LAuro was diverted by US planes to Italy if I remember
correctly). For the leaglities under international aviation conventions, you
would have to ask a lawyer.

_______________________

Tokyo, Japan: Hi, May name is Taka. My question is below.

What do you think whether he links to Taliban in Pakistan?  I heard that
Pakistani Taliban does not have the strength of making sophisticated bomb.
Please let me know your angle.

Thank you.

Gary Ackerman: First, the latest reports (just come out) seem to piiunt to
coconspirators in Pakistan; it remains to be seen whether or not they are linked
to the PAkistani Neo-Tlaiban. One thing is for certain - the Pakistani Taliban
are extremely proficient at making bombs. They have detonated dozens of
sophiosticated bombs in the past two years and have also succeeded in assaulting
highly-protected targets in coordinated attacks. In short, their general
operational capability is very high.

_______________________

Terrorists' real motives?: Do you think the real motives of terrorists are to
cause the U.S. to have to divert human and financial resources to preventing
attacks, and to strike fear in Americans' hearts? I recall that bin Laden seemed
surprised that the 9/11 plane attacks caused far more damage than expected. Thus
Saturday's event was nonetheless successful on one level, if not the others.

Gary Ackerman: The answers depend on the terrorists involved. Unfortunately in
the case of Al Qaeda and many other jihadists, the answer is YEs, Yes and YES.
In other words, they have multiple motives for most of their attacks, including
a) causing pghysical death and destructions b) economic disruption c)fear
uncertainty and doubt in the AMerican govt and public, d) recruitment of new
followers, etc.

_______________________

Operating outside the Constitution double standard?: When the recent militia
group was arrested in Michigan, all European Americans, born and raised here,
were they mirandized? If so, why is it okay to mirandize people like them who
have openly declared war on the U.S., but not okay to mirandize this guy?

Gary Ackerman: I agree - I see no issues with mirandizing any of these
perpetrators.

_______________________

D.C.: Since he recently became a U.S. citizen, would he face treason charges
along with all of the other related charges for this bombing attempt? Or does
treason not apply?

Gary Ackerman: Terrorists are not often charged with treason or sedition, as far
as I am aware, but that might be because it is easier to convict them for a
plethora of other crimes. If you go to the Terrorism Research Center at the
University of Arkansas, they keep a database with US terrorism cases and what
all the charges were.

However, I see no problem in principle with adding treason to the list of
charges, if it makes sense as part of the overall prosecution strategy.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: The FBI and DHS knew this guy's name and yet he was allowed to
board a plane undetected and it was just luck they caught him in time. Doesn't
DHS, TSA have a system, something like an Amber Alert, that can immediately put
a suspect's name on the no-fly list to catch the person before he leaves the
U.S.? If not, there is a major hole in our system.

Gary Ackerman: You are assuming that they didn't intentionally let him on -
perhaps they wanted to see whether he would sit next to other members of the
plot. In any event, I would not presume that it would be that easy to get
someone on a no-fly list immediately - the process, like much else in government
- has been revealed to be exceedingly bureacratic (just look at folks who have
been mistakenly put on and try to get their names taken off).

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Why is this success in protecting our country not being
celebrated by both parties?

Gary Ackerman: Well, I think because the success was only partial - it was luck
and some observant citizens that actually prevented the attack, although the
follow-up seems to have been exemplary by our law enforcement and they should
get full credit for that.

_______________________

Philadelphia: What good would it do to openly declare that we are in a conflict
with Islamist terror, as opposed to terrorists in general? Wouldn't it just help
AQ's recruiting? They feed off an "Islam vs. the West" mentality. Plus there are
a billion Muslims in the world -- do we want them all against us? After all, we
are currently deeply enmeshed in two Muslim countries -- Afghanistan and Iraq.

Gary Ackerman: You make a good point - one does not want to strengthen the
terorrists' own narrative if one can help it. On the other hand, one does not
need to ignore the elephant in the room. I feel it is quite legitimate to state
that our enemy is violent Islamism, Jihadism, etc., while making clear that this
does not apply to the vast majority of Muslims worldwide.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Why do you suppose so many people are hung up on the
"demonstration" motivation for the attack? What possible reason could a
terrorist organization or individual have to intentionally fail at carrying out
a terrorist attack? I can't see how this would paint them as anything but
incompetent.

Gary Ackerman: The only reason I canthink of for an intentional failure is as
part of a flase flag attack - i.e. intentionally failing while implicating
someone else to make them look bad or incompetent. I cannot recall any
historical cases of intentional failure, but there was a lot of "false flag"
terorrism in Italy in the 70s where one group of terorrists on theright would
kill people and make it look like the Leftists had done it (and vice versa).

_______________________

Miami, Fla.: Where is the celebration and kudos for the obviously terrific and
speedy police work that made this case an attempted terrorist attack as opposed
to one for the history books?

Gary Ackerman: See my previous note - KUDOS to all our wonderful, committed
folks in law enforcement.

_______________________

Baltimore, Md.: Why wasn't this guy surveilled by the FBI. He's a classic case
of justified profiling: he's young and he's going to and from Pakistan, exactly
where many terrorists hide out. It seems it was simply pure luck that ordinary
workers, such as that vendor, who spotted something suspcicious. Again, why
wasn't the FBI surveilling this guy?

Gary Ackerman: I think you underestimate was you are suggesting - there are
probably tens of thousands of US citizens who fit this profile. Without more to
go on, it is difficult (both legally, ethically and practically) to follow
people. However, US counterterrorism officials have tracked many potential
terorrists, where travel to certain areas is one among many indicators and they
will continue to do so.

_______________________

NYC: "the success was only partial"

How can you say that? The attack was averted and the bomber caught? How do you
improve on that?

Gary Ackerman: Ideally, one wants to interdict the attack a little further to
the "left of boom" so to speak - not to rely on an attacker's incompetence or
the astuteness of passersby. A complete success is something like Jihad Jane,
Zazi, the Fort Dix Six, etc. I may be a bit harsh, but in terms of prevention I
judge this as partial at best. In terms of tracking down the perp, it was an
excellent bit of police work.

_______________________

Savage: The electronic message board signs on my communicating route sometimes
say "Report Suspicious Activity" with a 1-800 number.

Has anything ever been thwarted by a highway tip?

Gary Ackerman: More than you would think. While not wanting to imply we should
be paranoid, several terrorist plots have been disruptoed because of smart,
astute members of the public noticing something out of place. That's about all I
can say at the moment.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: 1. I see that one of the two names listed, Tausif Ahmed, lived
in Gaitherburg, Md., for some time. Is this the same man? 2. What Mosque did man
attend in Conn or elsewhere?

Gary Ackerman: We are unsure at this stage, but I am sure that authorities are
interviewing people who knew either suspect as we chat.

_______________________

Brooklyn, N.Y.: Clearly this guy made a lot of mistakes along the way, but any
dumber than waiting for two days before trying to leave the country?

Gary Ackerman: I agree to some extent, but many criminals have a tendency to lie
low and get a feel for how close the authorities are before making any major
moves.

_______________________

Re U.S. Cameras: Actually, within the last year there was a report stating that
in urban areas the proliferation of security cameras means that most people are
caught on camera every day. The issue is whether or not those cameras can be
accessed since most are privately owned and run and if the video is stored or
gets destroyed too soon for analysis.

Gary Ackerman: You bring up clear difficulties. The alternative, to have a 'Big
Brother' with hundreds of govt personnel watching every move we make is arguably
even more unpalatable, so we will have to find the balance somewhere.

_______________________

Gary Ackerman: I htink that about wraps it up. I hope many of you were able to
receive at least some answer to your questions and I thank you for a stimulating
chat.

Gary Ackerman

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      August 17, 2010 Tuesday 3:02 PM EST

McCain: I never flip-flop

BYLINE: Matt DeLong

LENGTH: 350 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's been often noted in recent months how Sen. John McCain's
(R-Ariz.) positions on a host of issues, including climate change and
immigration, have moved considerably to the right in the face of a
once-formidable primary challenge from former Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R-Ariz.). Sen.
Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) even commented to the New York Times that McCain, his
good friend, was largely absent from the negotiating table with Democrats
because "John's got a primary. He's got to focus on getting reelected."


It's been often noted in recent months how Sen. John McCain's (R-Ariz.)
positions on a host of issues, including climate change and immigration, have
moved considerably to the right in the face of a once-formidable primary
challenge from former Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R-Ariz.). Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.)
even commented to the New York Times that McCain, his good friend, was largely
absent from the negotiating table with Democrats because "John's got a primary.
He's got to focus on getting reelected."

In a new interview with Politics Daily's Jill Lawrence, McCain now denies that
he has changed any of his positions and blames the media for spreading such
lies.

"Lindsey knows that I don't change in my positions," he says. "I have not
changed in my positions. I know how popular it is for the Eastern press to paint
me as having changed positions. That's not true. I know they're going to
continue to say it. It's fundamentally false. Not only am I sure that they'll
say it, you'll say it. You'll write it. And I've just grown to accept that."

Of course, McCain's position changes are easily documented. McCain famously
flip-flopped this year on repealing the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that bans
gay people from serving openly in the military.

"The day that the leadership of the military comes to me and says, 'Senator, we
ought to change the policy,' then I think we ought to consider seriously
changing it," McCain said in October 2006 to an audience of Iowa State
University students.

That day arrived Tuesday, with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Joint
Chiefs Chairman Mike Mullen testifying to senators after President Obama's
announcement that he would seek a congressional repeal of the 15-year-old
policy. [...]

In response, McCain declared himself "disappointed" in the testimony. "At this
moment of immense hardship for our armed services, we should not be seeking to
overturn the 'don't ask, don't tell' policy," he said bluntly, before describing
it as "imperfect but effective."

McCain later vowed to support a filibuster of a bill containing language that
would repeal the policy.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    November 11, 2010 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

Video: American Mosaic: Stories of immigration from those who lived it

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour,Esraa Bani

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 311 words


_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: Have you immigrated or know someone who has? Would you like to
be featured on American Mosaic? Please send us some information about yourself
to tarab@washpost.com

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: When Esraa Bani and her family immigrated to the United States
in 1998, they landed at Dulles Airport, rented a minivan and spent 6 weeks
searching up and down the East Coast for the ideal place to live. They settled
on Reston, just a ten-minute drive from Dulles. Bani was born in the Sudan and
lived in Saudi Arabia until age 14, and since moving to the U.S., she has dealt
with harassment, married a Jewish man and founded a mothers' group called "Hip
Muslim Moms" (The group recently disbanded after the husband of one of the
members was arrested for plotting to blow up Metrorail stations in Northern
Virginia). And she has a 2-year-old daughter, Fatima, who will face -- and
present -- a new set of cultural challenges.

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: Esraa's Arrival to the United States

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: Facing the Difficulties of Immigration

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: Esraa's Activism

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: Marriage and Raising Children in a Multicultural Home

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: Hip Muslim Moms

_______________________

American Education: I am guessing Ms. Bani was here during her High School,
College, and Grad School years. Any comments on what she thinks about our
Education system. We think it's broke!

_______________________

Diaspora Connections to Average Americans: How aware do you think the average
American is about your struggles and the struggles of those like you who have
come to the United States? What do you do to reach out to this community and
share commonalities?

_______________________

Tara Bahrampour: tarab@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    November 18, 2010 Thursday 12:00 PM EST

Video: Marco Antonio Rua and Andrea Rua discuss their impending deportation on
American Mosaic

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam,Marco Antonio Rua

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 292 words



HIGHLIGHT: Shankar Vedantam and guests explore our American histories. How did
you get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.


Shankar Vedantam and guests explore our American histories. How did you get
here? Ask your questions about immigration now.

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Shankar Vedantam and guests explore our American histories.
How did you get here? Ask your questions about immigration now.Marco Antonio Rua
has fixed toilets, replaced broken pipes and answered desperate midnight calls
from residents of the Wisconsin, a 204-unit condominium in North Bethesda for
the last 15 years. In September, immigration authorities ordered Rua and his
17-year-old daughter to leave the United States after his family's petition for
permanent residency was turned down. Rua marked his last day of work at the
Wisconsin on Tuesday.The news of Rua's impending deportation shocked those at
the condominium, whose well-connected residents include a U.S. senator. In
recent weeks, residents have lobbied Congress and the Department of Homeland
Security, asking them to let Rua and his family remain in the country. What
questions would you have for Mr Rua as he weighs difficult questions about his
family's future?

_______________________

Marco Antonio Rua: View of America

_______________________

Marco Antonio Rua: Family Dynamic

_______________________

Marco Antonio Rua: What's Next?

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Help from Friends

_______________________

Mr. Rua: I was just wondering if Mr. Rua maintained his legal status from 1995
(when he was admitted in a three-month visa waiver status) until now and just
recently fell out of status. Also was there any connection between the denial of
his wife's employer's petition and their (perhaps) illegal status in the U.S.?

_______________________

Shankar Vedantam: Send us information about yourself to mosaic@wpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 4, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Somalis seeking asylum take back-door route to U.S.;
Suspension of refugee program has put them on Latin American path

BYLINE: Amy Taxin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: LANCASTER, CALIF.


The asylum seeker from Somalia hung his head as an immigration judge grilled him
about his treacherous journey from the Horn of Africa. By air, sea and land he
finally made it to Mexico, and then a taxi delivered him into the arms of U.S.
border agents at San Diego.

Islamic militants had killed his brother, Mohamed Ahmed Kheire testified, and
majority clan members had beaten his sister. He had to flee Mogadishu to live.

The voice of the judge, beamed by videoconference from Seattle, crackled loudly
over a speaker in the mostly empty courtroom near the detention yard in the
desert north of Los Angeles. He wanted to know why Kheire had no family
testimony to corroborate his asylum claim.

Kheire, 31, said he didn't have access to e-mail in detention and didn't think
to ask while writing to family on his perilous trek.

It seemed like the end of Kheire's dream as he waited for the judge's ruling. He
clasped his hands, his plastic jail bracelet dangling from his wrist, and looked
up at the ceiling, murmuring words of prayer.

Kheire is one of hundreds of Somalis in the past two years to have staked
everything on a wild asylum gamble by following immigration routes to the United
States traditionally traveled by Latinos.

With the suspension of a U.S. refugee program and stepped-up security in the
Gulf of Aden and along Mediterranean smuggling routes, more overseas migrants
from Somalia are pursuing asylum through what one expert calls the "back door."

"The U.S. has closed most of the doors for Somalis to come in through the
refugee program, so they've found alternative ways to get in," said Mark
Hetfield, senior vice president for policy and programs at the Hebrew Immigrant
Aid Society. "This is their new route." About 1,500 people from around the world
showed up in U.S. airports and on the borders seeking asylum during the 2009
fiscal year, according to statistics from U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

Somalis were the biggest group to make the journey, with most arriving in San
Diego. More than 240 Somalis arrived during that period -- more than twice as
many as the year before.

Most Somalis have reached the United States -- there are about 87,000 here --
through U.S.-sponsored refugee-resettlement programs. But the State Department
suspended a family-reunification program for refugees in 2008 over fraud
concerns. The number of Somalis admitted by refugee programs dwindled to about
4,000 last year.

Those now traveling through Latin America are taking a path well worn by asylum
seekers from other countries. Immigration lawyers say they have worked with
clients from Ethiopia and Iraq who also reached the United States through
Mexico.

"To get a flight from Africa to Europe is very hard. The easiest place to go is
America," said Yahya Idardon, an asylum seeker who fled Somalia last year after
his father and brother were killed. "Africa to Latin America is easy. . . . When
you are going to Latin America, no one is concerned about you, no one is asking,
so it is easy to go there and cross all these countries." Once reaching the U.S.
border in San Diego, Somalis are frisked, fingerprinted and screened by an
asylum officer to gauge whether they have a credible fear of returning home.

They are then shuttled to an immigration detention center until their cases go
to court.

About 80 Somalis are being held in Lancaster, a detention center 50 miles north
of Los Angeles. Dozens more have been held in San Diego and the remote border
town of El Centro, immigration lawyers said.

On Jan. 4, the government plans to start releasing many asylum seekers while
they wait for their immigration cases to be heard. It is unclear how many
Somalis will be let out; they must prove their identity and many don't have
documents. And still others say they have nowhere to go even if they were freed,
their attorneys said.

Compared with asylum seekers from other countries, Somalis have been more likely
to win their cases, according to immigration court statistics.

But in the courtroom in Lancaster, Kheire spent the last moments of his hearing
worried that the judge would send him back to Mogadishu to face the threat of
death -- even after he had survived such a harrowing journey.

The attorneys for Kheire and the government sat quietly in the courtroom,
listening to the judge read the ruling as Kheire prayed.

A Somali interpreter whispered urgently into Kheire's ear. He broke into a
hesitant smile. He would be allowed to stay.

Kheire left the courtroom in his black, laceless sneakers and jail jumpsuit,
escorted by sheriff's officials. Later that night, he was dropped off by
authorities at a nearby train station. He had $5 in his pocket.

"They said, 'This is America. Welcome to the United States of America,' " Kheire
said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Damian Dovarganes/associated Press; Mohamed Ahmed Kheire, right,
consults with Esperanza Immigrant Rights Project detention lawyer James Lyall in
Los Angeles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Every Edition

Costly case raises issues of immigration, health care;
Hospitals and Medicaid cover bills for baby born to a visitor from Congo

BYLINE: Eliza Barclay; Kaiser Health News

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. HE04

LENGTH: 1427 words


For Jeanne d'Arc Kayembe, the trip to Washington in May 2007 was meant to be a
month-long respite from an abusive boyfriend and a chance to visit relatives
before going home to the Democratic Republic of the Congo to have her first
child.

But searing abdominal pains sent Kayembe, who was six months pregnant, to Shady
Grove Adventist Hospital. After relieving her pain, a doctor told her to stay in
bed and not return to Kinshasa until after she had delivered her baby.

The Shady Grove emergency room was the entry point for Kayembe, who spoke almost
no English and had little money, to a foreign medical system that was, by turns,
both frightening and surprisingly welcoming.

Kayembe gave birth at Shady Grove to a very sick son, Don Emmanuel, who
eventually got more than $1 million worth of care, mostly at Children's National
Medical Center. U.S. taxpayers and the hospitals footed the bill.

In some ways, Kayembe and her son are at the white-hot intersection of
immigration and health care. But Kayembe's case doesn't fit neatly into those
political and policy battles, which often focus on undocumented immigrants. An
employee of Congo's telecommunications agency, she came to the U.S. legally, on
a tourist visa. And because her son was born here, he became a U.S. citizen and
thus was entitled to Medicaid, like any poor child.

To Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington think tank that supports tighter immigration controls, Kayembe's case
suggests that rules for entering the United States ought to be toughened. He
questions the wisdom of admitting a woman who was six months pregnant and from a
country with a primitive health system. (Visa applicants are not asked whether
they are pregnant.)

"The basic question when you're looking at the intersection of health care and
immigration is the selection of whom to admit," he said. "Once you admit
somebody, the game is up." Lawmakers, he said, "need to be a little more
demanding in this area."

But Adam Gurvitch, a consultant  to the National Immigration Law Center, which
advocates for the rights of low-income immigrants, disagreed. He said that U.S.
officials already have a screening process for visas that is highly subjective
and rejects many more applicants from poor countries than from Western Europe or
Japan. He added that "we would never accept such prohibitions for Americans"
wanting to go overseas.

As the debate ensues, legal and undocumented immigrants continue to show up in
emergency rooms, where hospitals are required by federal law to treat and
stabilize them. In Kayembe's case, medical staff helped in crucial ways that
went far beyond health issues.

Alone -- and crushed

After Kayembe's first visit to Shady Grove, she followed the doctor's advice,
staying at the Germantown home of her nephew, 23. Much of the time she was
alone. When Kayembe, then 39, gave birth in August 2007, she was crushed to
learn that her son had two heart defects and suffered from congenital
developmental issues.

"I was happy when the baby was born, but then the happy left when the nurse told
me he had a heart problem," Kayembe said in an interview. "I said, 'Why, my
God?' and I cried all day."

The baby remained in the intensive care unit at Shady Grove for two weeks, but
he needed specialized care, including a cardiac catheterization to repair a
ventricular problem and a hole in his heart. Doctors decided the surgery should
take place at Children's after the baby grew a bit stronger.

Over the next several months, Don Emmanuel's health deteriorated. He suffered
from congestive heart failure, his breathing was labored and his heartbeat
irregular. He was repeatedly hospitalized and once was flown by helicopter from
Shady Grove to Children's for emergency treatment.

In January 2008 doctors at Children's successfully operated on the 5-month-old.
But the baby had high blood pressure in the lungs, hypothyroidism and other
problems that required in-hospital follow-up care.

The cost of the Shady Grove care was $32,000; most of that amount was covered by
Don Emmanuel's Medicaid, while Kayembe's lesser charges were absorbed by the
hospital as uncompensated care. Children's officials say Medicaid eventually
picked up a little less than half of the baby's $1 million tab, with the
hospital absorbing the rest.

Children's is known as a place where legal and illegal immigrants, as well as
American citizens with little money, can bring their children for top-notch
care. In some cases, parents from other countries bring kids to the emergency
room directly from the airport, hospital administrators say.

But that comes at a price. Children's, like many other hospitals, doesn't keep
track of how much uncompensated care they provide to noncitizens, documented or
undocumented, but they said it is significant. The hospital once spent $3
million treating an illegal  immigrant child with leukemia, officials say.

The federal government helps subsidize uncompensated care by providing $11
billion through a Medicaid program that assists hospitals with a
disproportionate number of low-income patients. But that doesn't cover the
entire need. Hospitals often turn to charities for help or pass the cost of
uncompensated care along in higher prices to patients who do have insurance.

Out of options

Kayembe, struggling to oversee her son's care, found that the people treating
Don Emmanuel began to look after her, too.

Facing the expiration of the standard six-month tourist visa, Kayembe was
terrified that she would be forced to return to Congo without her son. But just
weeks before her visa was set to expire, social workers and doctors at
Children's wrote to the Department of Homeland Security's Bureau of Citizenship
and Immigration Services, explaining that she needed to stay in the country with
her child while he received treatment. The agency granted an extension for
another six months.

A social worker at Children's, believing Kayembe might be eligible for asylum
because she said she'd been abused by her boyfriend in Congo, e-mailed the
Center for Applied Legal Studies at Georgetown University Law Center, requesting
pro bono assistance for Kayembe. Liz Keyes, a French-speaking attorney with
Women Empowered Against Violence, a Washington nonprofit organization, decided
to take the case.

Even Keyes, an experienced immigration lawyer, was surprised that the hospital
had gone to such lengths to find legal help for Kayembe.

"I've never seen anything like it," said Keyes. "I think what was driving it was
this child, who was doing well but couldn't do well if he was taken overseas or
if his mother was distracted by overstaying her visa. They had to take care of
mom's immigration issues."

There was little time to spare. Keyes tracked down family members and a priest
in Congo who could provide affidavits about the alleged abuse, which was linked
to ethnic discrimination. They said that Kayembe's boyfriend, who was from a
different Congolese ethnic group, had not wanted her to have a "mixed-blood"
son. He had pressed her to have an abortion and made threatening comments about
the child.

Kayembe, meanwhile, was distraught about the baby's medical problems. "She would
cry," said Deneen Heath, the cardiologist at Children's who treated the baby for
congestive heart failure and other complications. "She never thought she would
have a child with all these problems."

Using her rusty French, Heath gleaned that Kayembe was having trouble getting
back and forth from Germantown, so she set up a cot in the baby's room and got
permission for Kayembe to eat for free in the hospital cafeteria while Don
Emmanuel received treatment.

In June 2008, Kayembe received asylum status, which Gurvitch of the National
Immigration Law Center called "quite exceptional." He said that her son's U.S.
citizenship didn't confer any rights on his mother.

Today Kayembe is learning English and looking for a job while receiving aid from
groups that help people who have been granted asylum. Her son is a smiling,
chatty toddler. He no longer requires oxygen at night, and doctors say his heart
problems have improved markedly.

Kayembe today recalls the kindness of the doctors and social workers. "I was so
surprised because I never imagined somebody would help me like that," she said
through an interpreter. "They gave me so much."

This story was produced through a collaboration between The Post and Kaiser
Health News. KHN is a service of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan
health-care-policy research organization unaffiliated with Kaiser Permanente.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: District-Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Susan Biddle For The Washington Post; Don Emmanuel,
now 2, needed extensive care in the months after his birth. Doctors say his
heart problems have improved markedly.
IMAGE; Jeanne d'Arc Kayembe came to Washington when she was pregnant with her
son, Don Emmanuel, who became a U.S. citizen at birth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigrants invest up to $1 million in U.S. visa program;
Creating or preserving 10 jobs is way to gain permanent legal status

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1419 words


The number of foreigners willing to invest $500,000 to $1 million in a U.S.
business in exchange for a visa roughly tripled in the past fiscal year, as
dozens of cash-strapped enterprises and local governments scrambled to attract
wealthy foreign backers through a previously obscure provision of immigration
law.

Under the EB-5 visa program, immigrants who can demonstrate that their
investment created or preserved at least 10 U.S. jobs after two years are
granted legal permanent residency along with their spouses and children.

Although immigrants are allowed to establish businesses under the program, most
prefer to invest in "regional centers" -- public or private enterprises that are
certified by the government to receive funds from EB-5 investors and that can
count jobs indirectly created by the investment toward the 10 required.

The minimum outlay mandated is $1 million, but immigrants can reduce that to
$500,000 by investing in a regional center or establishing businesses in areas
designated as economically disadvantaged.

The program was established in 1990, but potential investors and businesses were
often dissuaded by the U.S. government's slow and inconsistent administration of
the complex rules. In the past year, however, a gradual streamlining of
procedures coincided with the recession and credit crunch to dramatically boost
interest in the program.

In a matter of months, more than 50 private and public enterprises were
certified as regional centers, increasing the total from 23 to 74. Three are in
the Washington area.

With so many more investment opportunities to choose from, the number of
immigrants (including investors and their immediate family members) who obtained
EB-5 visas jumped from 1,443 in fiscal 2008 to 4,218 in the 2009 fiscal year
that ended Sept. 30, according to the State Department.

Most were granted to people from Asia, particularly China and South Korea.
Several scholars said they expect the number to double again this year.

"What happens with programs like this is that sometimes, all of a sudden they
get discovered, and then intermediaries begin to really promote them both here
and internationally," said Demetrios Papademetriou, president of the Migration
Policy Institute, a Washington think tank that recently released a report about
the trend.

Statistics on the total invested through the EB-5 program are not available, but
the capital infusion has been a boon to Washington area businesses. The Capitol
Area Regional Center, a real estate investment fund based in the District, has
been working to raise a projected $250 million from immigrant investors for use
in Washington area construction projects.

Perhaps the greatest potential beneficiaries are nonprofit agencies such as the
District's Anacostia Economic Development Corp., which was approved as a
regional center in June. Over the next three years, the group hopes to raise $50
million from immigrant investors to develop real estate projects and small
businesses in wards 7 and 8 -- a princely sum compared with the $2 million in
private capital it raised for its last major building project in Anacostia.

"Normally, to get equity capital to these areas is almost impossible," said
Michael Wallach, chief operating officer of the corporation. "These two wards
have the highest unemployment rate in the city and the lowest incomes."

But because the primary motivation of the immigrant investors whom Wallach is
wooing is to create enough jobs to meet the visa requirement rather than to
maximize the return on their investment, they might prove less skittish.

'It was worth it to me'

Program participant Eric Canal-Forgues, a law professor and businessman from
France, is a case in point. In 2007, he invested $500,000 in a regional center
that funded construction of Comcast's headquarters in Philadelphia.

He said it is unlikely that he will get more than a 1 percent return by the
five-year point at which he will be allowed to withdraw his money. That will
barely cover the roughly $50,000 in administrative costs of his investment, let
alone the loss of value because of inflation.

But Canal-Forgues, 47, who has moved with his wife and two children to Miami,
said he has no regrets.  "I knew the conditions going in, and it was worth it to
me," he said. He said that Miami was attractive because of its financial
opportunities and that he plans to open a franchise of children's clothing
stores.

But more than anything else, he said, "we really wanted our children to be
raised in a dual culture, French and American, especially because I think the
educational system at the university level is much stronger here than in
France."

Statistics suggest that many EB-5 applicants might also find the program
appealing because it is considerably speedier than other options: Nearly 70
percent of immigrants granted investor visas in fiscal 2009 were from China or
South Korea, countries whose nationals face decade-long waits for
family-reunification visas because of quotas on the annual number allowed in
from any one country.

Concerns about fraud

That immigrant investors are more focused on obtaining visas than maximizing
profits -- combined with the government's limited capacity for oversight -- has
caused even some avid proponents of the EB-5 program to worry that a profusion
of fraudulent or ill-advised ventures might soon flourish alongside legitimate
ones.

"The thing that concerns me most is that some fly-by-night [operation] will lose
a large group of investors' money, and it will poison the well for the rest of
us," said David Morris, founder of EB-5 America, a Washington regional center
that invested $20 million to refurbish the Sugarbush ski resort in Vermont in
past years and is now raising money for construction projects in the District.

Yet Morris also notes that some of the stricter rules of the EB-5 program --
including the rigid timeline by which the job creation requirement must be met
-- do not always mesh with the realities of the business world, with
consequences for both immigrant investors and potential business ventures.

For instance one of Morris's clients, Rodrigo Martinez, a Mexican immigrant who
lives in Arlington County, was initially keen to invest in a project to renovate
the historic O Street Market at Seventh and O streets NW. "The fact that you are
helping to have a positive effect on the community that you're joining, I really
liked that idea," said Martinez, 27.

But fearing that construction delays would prevent that project from creating
sufficient jobs in time, Martinez, who attended law school in the United States
and now works as a business consultant, switched his money last year to the
Sugarbush resort instead.

Supporters of the EB-5 program also complain that the government's review
process for approving potential regional centers is still too slow, especially
at a time when a similar Canadian visa program is attracting three times as many
immigrant investors.

Stephen Yale-Loehr, a professor at Cornell University's law school and executive
director of a trade association of regional centers, said the number of EB-5
visas being granted falls well short of the maximum 10,000 allowed each year.

"There's a lot more that we could be doing to promote the EB-5 program so that
it can achieve its true potential in this economic recession," he said.

Bipartisan support

Powerful members of Congress on both sides of the aisle agree. In a rare
bipartisan convergence on an immigration issue, Sens. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.),
chairman of the Judiciary Committee, and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), the ranking
member, recently joined forces in an effort to make the regional centers
permanent. (The centers were established under a pilot program that has been
extended several times since the 1990s).

Leahy said he was impressed by the millions of dollars that EB-5 visa holders
have invested in ski resorts such as Jay Peak and other projects in the
distressed northeastern region of Vermont.

Because of legislative wrangling unrelated to the EB-5 program, Leahy had to
settle for a three-year extension in the fiscal 2010 Homeland Security
Appropriations bill adopted in the fall.

Still, Leahy predicted that not only will all aspects of the program soon be
made permanent but also that the annual number of visas might be increased.

"Once it's permanent, I think we're really going to see the true value of this,"
he said. "At a time when we're seeing so many of our jobs exported out of the
country, this creates jobs in the United States."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Several U.S. agencies helping Haiti

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 436 words


The State Department, the U.S. Agency for International Development and the
military will lead the American response to the earthquake in Haiti, President
Obama announced Wednesday. But agencies throughout the federal government are
taking action or preparing to deploy personnel to the region.

Here's a sampling of the federal response:

-- Department of Homeland Security: Coast Guard helicopters performed
reconnaissance flights over Haiti, helping officials conclude Wednesday that the
quake's impact was felt mostly in and around Port-au-Prince, the capital. Some
helicopters were dispatched from the Guantanamo Bay military base in Cuba,
returning with seriously injured Americans who needed medical care, officials
said.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement suspended all deportations to Haiti and
will continue to closely monitor the situation, a spokesman said. Several
lawmakers called on the Obama administration to grant Haitians safe haven
through an emergency program that temporarily allows tourists, students and
illegal immigrants in the United States to stay amid natural disasters or
political upheaval in their home country.

The department's other agencies stand ready to assist, Secretary Janet
Napolitano said.

-- Federal Aviation Administration: The agency dispatched at least two
inspectors to help assess the condition of airport runways in Port-au-Prince and
Cape Haitien. Both airports are open only to private and humanitarian flights,
it said.

The air traffic control towers are not operating at either facility, meaning
pilots must use visual flight rules and can land only in good weather,
spokeswoman Laura Brown said. The airport certification inspectors will check
the runway surfaces and lighting, with an eye toward ensuring the airports can
support round-the-clock civil relief operations, Brown said.

-- Federal Communications Commission: The FCC issued a temporary waiver allowing
public and religious television and radio stations to host on-air fundraising
drives for earthquake relief efforts.

"A number of noncommercial broadcasters have asked for permission to raise funds
for relief efforts, which we are happy to give," FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski
said in a statement. "These temporary waivers will help tap the American spirit
of generosity in this time of great need to aid Haitian relief efforts."

The agency usually prohibits public broadcasters from on-air fundraising for any
organization other than the station itself. The agency issued similar waivers
after Hurricanes Andrew and Katrina; the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks; and
the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Haitians in U.S. illegally are given temporary reprieve

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and N.C. Aizenman

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 539 words


The Obama administration will allow 100,000 to 200,000 Haitians living in the
United States illegally to stay for 18 months because of Tuesday's earthquake
but warned that Haitians who are newly caught trying to enter the country will
be deported.

In granting eligible Haitian nationals temporary immigration status Friday,
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano called the move a gesture of
compassion and an attempt to ensure that the flow of remittances to their
devastated homeland continues.

"Providing a temporary refuge for Haitian nationals who are currently in the
United States and whose personal safety would be endangered by returning to
Haitiis part of this administration's continuing effort to support Haiti's
recovery," Napolitano said.

She coupled her message with a caution, as Homeland Security officials said the
change applies only to eligible illegal immigrants from Haiti in the country as
of Tuesday.

"At this moment of tragedy in Haiti, it is tempting for people suffering in the
aftermath of the earthquake to seek refuge elsewhere, but attempting to leave
Haiti now will only bring more hardship to the Haitian people and nation,"
Napolitano said.

Haitians living the United States send back about $1.2 billion in remittances
annually, accounting for about 20 percent of Haiti's economy. About 535,000
Haitian-born immigrants live in the United States, with the largest communities
in New York and Florida. About 31,000 have outstanding deportation orders, and
about 160 are in immigration detention.

The U.S. government announced this week that it was temporarily halting
deportations of Haitians, including those in detention.

The U.S. government extends temporary protected status to nationals from El
Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Somalia and Sudan under a law that is intended to
provide relief to countries torn by war, natural disaster or political upheaval.

Immigrants must pay a fee to apply and are eligible only if they do not have a
criminal record. The government can extend the program as conditions warrant.

Haitian American groups and immigration advocates have been asking for the
ruling for years, citing four storms that wreaked havoc in the country in 2008
and a recurring food crisis.

"Victory at last," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center, which requested the change after Obama took office
last year. While saying she was thrilled, Little added, "It's troubling indeed
that it takes a disaster of this proportion to get our government to do the
right thing for the Haitians."

The advocates were joined this week by Republican and Democratic lawmakers from
Florida; Sen. Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind.), ranking minority member of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee; and dozens of refugee agencies.

Some advocates for stricter immigration controls called the move justified, but
others expressed reservations, noting that the status has been continually
renewed for other groups long after the disaster that triggered it. Tens of
thousands of Salvadorans, for example, have remained in the United States under
the temporary immigration status granted to them in the wake of a 2001
earthquake.

Staff writer Peter Whoriskey contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Carol Guzy/the Washington Post; In Port-au-Prince, a
cross remains standing at the Cathedral Sacre Coeur, which was destroyed in
Tuesday's earthquake.
IMAGE; Members of the French Civil Protection team and Fairfax International
Urban Search and Rescue team pause after helping free an injured American man
from the rubble.
IMAGE; Elliane Garcon is held as she watches the body of her husband, Rene
Morancy, being loaded into a dump truck in Port-au-Prince.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Officials try to prevent Haitian earthquake refugees from making trek to U.S.

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 954 words


As a massive international relief effort lurches into gear, U.S. officials are
stepping up measures to prevent last week's earthquake in Haiti from triggering
a Caribbean migration not seen in two nearly two decades.

Experts see no signs for now of a seaborne exodus, although history shows that
such events are difficult to predict. Still, South Florida counties have
prepared contingency plans, immigration authorities have cleared space in a
600-bed detention center in Miami, and Obama administration officials have begun
discouraging Haitians from attempting the hazardous 600-mile sea crossing to
Florida.

"Please: If any Haitians are watching, there may be an impulse to leave the
island and to come here," Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said
Saturday at Homestead Air Reserve Base in Homestead, Fla., where she joined Vice
President Biden in speaking to relief workers at a federal staging area.

"This is a very dangerous crossing. Lives are lost every time people try to make
this crossing," Napolitano said, adding that Haitians caught at sea will be
repatriated. "Please do not have us divert our necessary rescue and relief
efforts that are going into Haiti by trying to leave at this point."

The warnings come paired with a giant humanitarian operation to rebuild
Port-au-Prince, position U.S. military assets in the area, and adjust U.S. and
international immigration policies. In the long run, such measures would be the
most effective tools to prevent a refugee crisis, current and former government
officials said.

With as many as 3 million people affected by Tuesday's quake, the stakes for the
Obama administration in heading off a wave of migrants are high.

"We don't want to have destabilization in Haiti, and deaths of this magnitude in
Haiti cause destabilization and have political implications," said Andrew S.
Natsios, a veteran foreign aid official who led U.S. relief efforts in Iraq,
Afghanistan and Sudan and during the Asian tsunami in 2004.

"You cannot prohibit people from moving under international law if they feel
threatened. But you can create incentives to stay," said Natsios, head of the
U.S. Agency for International Development from 2001 to 2006. "If you do the
relief response right, most people will want to rebuild."

American presidents since Jimmy Carter have grappled with flows of migrants from
the Caribbean triggered by political crises, wars and natural disasters. The
sudden influx of 100,000 Cubans and 25,000 Haitians in the 1980 Mariel boatlift
left some refugees in U.S. camps for years.

After a coup in Haiti in 1991, the U.S. government housed 12,000 Haitian
migrants in Guantanamo Bay and admitted 10,000 before a new government was in
place in 1994, a year in which the U.S. Coast Guard stopped and rescued 64,000
Haitians and Cubans at sea.

Spurred by reports that Cuban leader Fidel Castro was in failing health in 2006,
the U.S. government embarked on an intensive contingency plan, called Operation
Vigilant Sentry, signed by Michael Chertoff, then homeland security secretary,
in 2007. A central feature of the plan is a public messaging campaign designed
to dissuade Cubans -- then the focus -- from risking the life-threatening
90-mile journey across the Florida straits.

Although electronic mass media in Haiti is virtually nonexistent -- and the trip
to America a harrowing three days instead of a few hours -- the enormous pending
flow of aid, troops and official statements is conveying a similar message.

"It's not that the deterrence is the physical power; it's more the soft power,"
said Coast Guard Capt. Robert B. Watts, chief of drug and migrant interdiction
policy from 2006 to 2008 and now a professor at the National War College. "You
let people know you're there if you need help but that it doesn't make sense to
leave."

Nations worldwide have pledged $400 million so far to Haiti, the Western
Hemisphere's poorest country, led by $100 million by the United States. By
comparison, when Hurricane Mitch devastated Central America in 1998, U.S.
spending and debt relief totaled $900 million, most of which went to Honduras.

"The best thing we can do is spend as much relief aid as possible in Haiti,"
Natsios said. "Make sure food arrives promptly. Restart and stimulate Haitian
markets. Restore people's lives."

U.S. officials are also adopting new immigration measures, combining carrots and
sticks. On Wednesday, Napolitano suspended deportations of 100,000 to 200,000
Haitians in the country illegally, and on Friday, she announced that those in
the country as of Jan. 12 could apply for temporary protected status so they can
help send financial aid to their devastated homeland.

Homeland security officials, however, warned that Haitians caught trying to
enter the United States illegally will still be detained and deported. Florida
officials said contingency plans  could call for housing migrants at the
Homestead base if space beyond the federal Krome immigration detention center is
needed.

Elsewhere in the region, the Bahamas set up processing facilities on its island
nearest Haiti, beefing up medical, shelter and law enforcement resources.

Thad M. Bingel, former chief of staff of U.S. Customs and Border Protection from
2007 until  March, said that under Vigilant Sentry, U.S. officials  expect a
warning of several days if residents begin to build or stage boats and a
coordinated response of more than 30 federal, state and local groups to safely
intercept migrants if Napolitano and the National Security Council activate
plans.

In any mass migration, he added, "the challenges are recognizing that government
has a humanitarian role as well as an enforcement role."

Staff writer Peter Whoriskey in Miami contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Carol Guzy/ The Washington Post; Joseline Marhone Pierre weeps
at a church service in Port-au-Prince. "I lost everything," she said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 24, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

To help Haiti's victims, let them leave

BYLINE: Michael A. Clemens

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1504 words


Troops. Food. Medicine. Money. Solidarity.

So far, the American response to the tragedy in Haiti has been exactly what
you'd expect, and in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake that ravaged the
nation on Jan. 12, such rapid assistance is precisely what is needed. But over
the long term, there is another step, one that may be less obvious or popular,
that we must take. It would vastly improve the living standards of the Haitian
people, and if we had taken it earlier, it could have lessened the death toll of
the quake.

We must let more Haitians come here. In fact, it's time to consider an entire
new class of immigration -- call it a "golden door" visa, to be issued in
limited numbers to people from the poorest countries, such as Haiti. It could be
permanent or temporary, but that's less important than its core purpose. Our
immigration law has traditionally had three primary goals: reuniting families,
supplying employers and protecting refugees. But part of America's greatness is
that in letting people come, the nation has pursued a fourth, unwritten goal:
extending opportunity to those born in places without it. A golden door visa
would simply recognize in law what the United States has done since its
founding.

No human act can blunt the force of an earthquake, but the Haitian people's
profound loss was not fundamentally caused by movements of the Earth. The reason
that tens of thousands of people are dying in Haiti is, put simply, because
Haiti is poor. Poverty means shoddy construction materials, lax enforcement of
building codes, abysmal emergency response and low stocks of food and medicine.
The earthquake shook the ground; the catastrophe came because most Haitians are
poor and vulnerable.

Why are so many Haitians so vulnerable? Asking why people are poor is different
from asking why a country is poor. Some have blamed Haiti's poverty on culture
or religion; others cite the country's history of slavery and colonialism; yet
others decry government corruption or decades of unfocused foreign aid. There
are no simple explanations. The one thing we understand is that Haiti has been
destitute and will continue to be so for a long time.

We do know, however, why many individual Haitians are poor. For a large number,
there is a clear reason: Many have been willing and able to leave Haiti for
American shores, but armed agents of the U.S. government have forcibly stopped
them or deterred them from trying. If they had not been stopped, virtually none
of them would have been as poor and vulnerable as they were on Jan. 12.

In research I conducted with economists Claudio Montenegro and Lant Pritchett,
we compared how much Haitians earn in the United States vs. Haiti. A moderately
educated adult male, born and schooled in Haiti, typically enjoys a standard of
living more than six times greater in the United States than in his homeland. In
other words, U.S. policy wipes out more than 80 percent of a Haitian's earning
power when it keeps him from coming to the United States. This affects
everything from the food he can buy to the construction materials he can afford.
The difference has nothing to do with his ability or effort; it results purely
from where he is.

After the earthquake, the Obama administration quickly suspended the deportation
of Haitians already residing illegally in the United States (a population
estimated at 100,000 to 200,000) for 18 months. That's a wise and welcome step,
but an insufficient one. The United States has deported only around 1,000
Haitians per year recently, so a brief halt will make a limited difference in
who lives where. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton emphasized Thursday that the
new policy will not apply to Haitians seeking to come here now. "Our ordinary
and regular immigration laws will apply going forward, which means that we are
not going to be accepting into the United States Haitians who are attempting to
make it to our shores. They will be interdicted. They will be repatriated."

Yet Haitians willing to emigrate today would typically experience vast and
immediate increases in their standard of living and security -- a goal the
administration no doubt supports. That is why so many have been willing to leave
Haiti, braving ocean blockades and other risks, even before the quake. Between
1982 and 2009, the U.S. Coast Guard stopped 114,716 Haitians on their way to the
United States, forcing them to go back, and such unsuccessful attempts must
certainly have deterred an even larger number from even trying to leave. Last
March, 51 percent of Haitians polled told Gallup that, given the opportunity,
they would leave their country permanently.

I am not suggesting that, if some of these people died in the earthquake, U.S.
immigration policy is responsible. But it would be just as ludicrous to contend
that we could not foresee very bad things happening to people forced to live in
extreme poverty. Life in destitution is a brittle existence. There is no extra
money to buy good building materials, invest in quality schooling or take
preventive health measures. So when shocks arrive, as they must -- an
earthquake, a job loss, a sickness -- problems become calamities. Such
consequences are predictable. For this reason, the United States is complicit in
the agony many Haitians are now suffering.

After Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans and the Gulf Coast in 2005, one
of the principal ways its victims helped themselves was by leaving. Katrina
prompted one of the biggest resettlements in American history. Who would have
blocked Interstate 10 with armed guards, forcing hundreds of thousands of people
to suffer in the disaster zone, no matter how much assistance was coming in from
outside? We wouldn't have done that, because it would have made us collectively
responsible for their continued suffering. Why then, in the thoughtful debate
that has emerged over how best to aid Haiti and help its citizens help
themselves, are Americans still quiet about this sinister face of our
immigration policy?

Of course, a natural disaster by itself is not a sufficient reason to eliminate
restrictions on the movement of Haitians. International migration has complex
effects: It can shape societies, labor markets and electorates. And disasters
such as Haiti's earthquake are aggravated by countless political, social and
economic forces, in their locales and beyond. But even taken alone, U.S.
immigration law has a huge impact on poor people all over the world. We should
consider this when debating immigration reform as well as aid and development.

Currently, we allow a trickle of about 21,000 Haitian immigrants, on average, to
enter the United States legally each year; most of them are able to come only
because they are lucky enough to have a relative already here. What evidence do
we have that we could not absorb triple that number, or even more? For years, we
have been accepting close to 1 million permanent immigrants annually from around
the world, with no lasting effects on the earnings of the average American
worker. And while most economic studies find that such immigration may have
lowered the wages of U.S. high school dropouts by a few percentage points, many
of those dropouts are immigrants themselves, already earning far more than they
would in their country of origin. A high school dropout in the United States
earns an average of $24,000 a year -- about seven times the wages of a typical
Haitian worker.

Beyond permanent immigrants, 498 Haitians entered the United States in 2008 on
temporary seasonal worker visas, known as H-2 visas. Even in a time of economic
crisis, the gigantic American economy could welcome many times that number of
temporary Haitian workers. Guest workers help our economy grow and recover by
giving employers greater flexibility in their hiring and investment decisions,
particularly in hard-hit sectors such as textiles, transportation and
construction.

Meanwhile, those workers would do more good for themselves and their families
than any amount of aid could do for them. And people remaining in Haiti would
benefit enormously. Haiti already gets close to $2 billion per year -- about a
third of its income -- in cash remittances from its citizens living abroad.
That's nearly 100 times as much as generous Americans have donated to Haiti via
their cellphones. And unlike foreign aid, remittances go directly to families.

The earthquake in Haiti has laid bare the consequences of our restrictive
immigration policies, particularly their effects on desperately poor people
overseas. Countless Americans have been moved by the images and stories from
Haiti, and have showed their solidarity and generosity with their wallets. A
golden door visa to America, whether temporary or permanent, would have a larger
and ultimately more lasting impact on the lives of the world's poorest, in Haiti
and beyond.

Michael A. Clemens is a research fellow at the Center for Global Development and
an affiliated associate professor of public policy at Georgetown University.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Julie Jacobson/associated Press; Hundreds of Haitians line up at
the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince last week, seeking travel visas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Debate grows on whether U.S. should let more Haitians in;
Some say new immigrants would send money back, easing the relief burden

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein and Peter Whoriskey

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1100 words


From morning until night, Dieula Celestin's cellphone rings in Miami's Little
Haiti. It is her younger brother, Roger Paul, calling from Port-au-Prince, where
he and their 65-year-old mother live with no food, no job and no money in the
street outside the remnants of their house.

Celestin knows that federal immigration rules forbid her brother, her mother and
half a dozen other people in her family who survived the earthquake -- as eight
others died -- to enter the United States. Still, she flew to Haiti late
Saturday, hoping that somehow she could  find a way to bring them back.

Now that the earthquake's initial shock is giving way to the realities of trying
to cope in the ruins, a growing number of Haitians -- and their relatives in the
United States -- are starting to chafe under the Obama administration's edict to
resist, as Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has put it, "an impulse
to leave the island and to come here."

The tension between U.S. policy and the desperation to leave is spawning a
debate in Washington over whether the government should let more Haitians in.
Immigration advocates and several members of Congress have begun pressing the
Department of Homeland Security and the State Department to ease the rules. So
far, the focus is on two groups: Haitians with relatives legally in the United
States and a few hundred injured children who, in the judgment of doctors doing
relief work in Haiti, could die without sophisticated medical care.

In the first days after the Jan. 12 quake, Napolitano announced that the
government would admit Haitian children already on the cusp of adoption and that
it would allow Haitians who were in the United States illegally to stay for 18
months. The administration has not eased restrictions for children newly
orphaned or injured by the disaster, Haitians who had already been seeking U.S.
visas, or any other earthquake victims who want to come.

Late last week, Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) said Homeland Security officials had
told him the agency would grant "humanitarian parole" to about 200 severely
injured Haitian children. Even after that, Nelson said, he got a late-night
e-mail, with the subject line "HELP," from a Miami neurosurgeon doing relief
work, saying the U.S. Embassy in Haiti would not allow three critically burned
children to be flown to a Miami burn unit. Nelson also said the State Department
had issued a memo saying that a 17-year-old named Samantha, with a broken back
and a father in Michigan, "would be ineligible to board an aircraft to the
United States."

"Typical bureaucratic crap that needs to be cut through," Nelson said in an
interview.

While Nelson wants to admit only critically injured children for treatment, a
groundswell is building in favor of letting certain Haitians emigrate.
Advocates' immediate focus is Haitians who, before the disaster, had applied --
and in some cases been approved -- for a kind of visa available to foreign
relatives of U.S. citizens or permanent legal residents.

About 19,000 Haitians have pending applications for such visas, according to
DHS. Nearly 55,000 Haitians have been approved for family visas but are on
waiting lists to enter because Congress has set limits on how many may come each
year, the State Department says. Given the quotas, "it can take years and years
for families to be reunited," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the
Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.

A spokesman for Homeland Security's Citizenship and Immigration Services said
the agency would "put at the head of the line" applicants for relative visas
from Haiti. But he and a State Department spokeswoman acknowledged that quicker
visa approvals would not mean those Haitians could enter the United States more
quickly unless Congress alters the quotas -- something lawmakers are not
discussing.

Lavinia Limon, president of the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, said
that letting Haitians join U.S. relatives would relieve at least some of the
humanitarian burden in Port-au-Prince. The United States, she said, has
airlifted foreigners out of other emergencies, such as Albanians from Kosovo and
refugees from the Vietnam War.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
think tank that favors tighter controls on immigration, countered that "poverty
and underdevelopment can't be criteria we use to pick immigrants. There are too
many of them." And he said that Haitian earthquake victims could consume U.S.
social services and displace American workers -- without generating enough
income to send back to Haiti "to make a difference" there.

Still, Elliott Abrams, a deputy national security adviser under President George
W. Bush who is now at the Council on Foreign Relations, said that if the United
States doubled for the next five years the 25,000 Haitians who have been coming
to the United States annually, it would substantially increase the remittances
sent back, providing critical help as the nation tries to rebuild. Such help
streaming home to families is more reliable and more likely to be spent
efficiently than the ebb and flow of foreign aid, he said. Abrams suggested that
to satisfy critics of increased immigration, the United States could offset the
influx of Haitians by temporarily slowing immigration from elsewhere.

Among Haitians and their U.S. relatives, Limon predicted, pressure on U.S.
immigration policy will escalate in the coming weeks and months. "You need a
boat, a captain, money. Nobody has that," she said. "But in two weeks, four
weeks, six weeks, they will."

In Little Haiti, the first stirrings are already visible. "How can anyone watch
someone who has . . . no food, and they're just lying in the street covering
themselves with a box, and then say, 'No more immigration'? How is that humane?"
said Tchelsie Lafond, 20, whose uncle crawled out of the rubble of the bank in
which he worked and, with his wife, now wants to come to the United States.

Meanwhile, Celestin, a 49-year-old restaurant worker and U.S. citizen, was so
frustrated listening to her brother plead for her to help family members reach
Miami that she accepted a one-way plane ticket from her church and flew to Haiti
with a small delegation of parishioners Saturday night. She has no idea how she
will afford to get home.

Still, Celestin said, she hopes to find her way to the U.S. Embassy in the
shattered capital and beg someone to let her relatives go back with her. "In
Haiti, they have nothing at all," she said. "In the U.S., people can help them
out."

Goldstein reported from Washington, Whoriskey from Miami.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Carol Guzy/the Washington Post; Pierre Rodrigue flies an
American flag over the rubble of a building destroyed in the earthquake. He said
he has relatives in the United States and is grateful for U.S. aid.
IMAGE; Carol Guzy/the Washington Post; A Haitian woman joins fellow worshipers
for a service amid the ruins of the Notre Dame Cathedral in Port-au-Prince.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

White Oak Middle's drama program sets the stage for inclusion

BYLINE: Jeanette Der Bedrosian; The Gazette

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. GZ19

LENGTH: 653 words


As a group of young African immigrants struggles to adapt to life in the United
States, an after-school drama program at White Oak Middle School in Silver
Spring strives to make their lives easier by first making them a little harder.

Project X is a program that uses drama, dance, poetry and other creative outlets
to help students discuss the tough and sometimes painful problems they face as
preteen immigrants with significant language barriers, instructors said. A final
unveiling of their creation will be performed for friends, family and donors at
the end of the year at Imagination Stage, a nonprofit children's theater in
Bethesda.

Wanjiru Kamau, coordinator of White Oak's African Club and executive director of
the African Immigrant and Refugee Foundation, said it's important to agitate
group members to help them find their place at the school.

"It comforts those who are uncomfortable, and it discomforts those who are
comfortable," Kamau said of Project X, which is a collaboration between the
school's African Club and Imagination Stage. The project is jointly funded by
the Bank of America Foundation, Children's Charities Foundation and the
Montgomery County Collaboration Council, she said. A Project X program at Argyle
Middle School in Silver Spring works with students from a variety of
backgrounds.

Mama Kamau, as the students call the White Oak club's coordinator, teamed up
with Imagination Stage after she noticed that many African students seemed
uncomfortable talking about problems that some deal with every day, such as
being teased by their fellow students about how they look and talk. When most of
the kids join the club, they speak little or no English, Kamau said. Each week,
the club typically draws five to 10 students who are originally from Africa or
the Caribbean for discussion sessions and the Project X program.

The students don't realize how difficult it can be to develop confidence and
find their footing in their new surroundings, Kamau said. In a meeting last
Thursday, members of the group struck poses, tossed beanbags and decorated
journals that they will use to document their day-to-day struggles.

"We're going to express ourselves through our words and our actions, and that's
powerful," said teaching artist Meg Green as she and colleague Anu Yadav
introduced fill-in-the-blank poems the students wrote about their identities.
Green and Yadav are freelance artists whom Imagination Stage hired to help with
Project X.

One student, Franck Ketchouang, 13, of Silver Spring wrote, "I am from the
world; I am love," which drew oohs and aahs from the group.

Ketchouang has been in the United States less than a year, said Program
Coordinator Chad Dike, who works for Imagination Stage. When Ketchouang started
attending Project X, he had been in the United States for two months and spoke
no English. Now he's one of the group's most outgoing members and helps
translate instructions from English to Creole for the group's newest member, who
is from Haiti.

"You can express yourself through your body," Green said. "It doesn't matter if
you can't say it in English."

Many people will give up when there's a language barrier, "but these people
validate them," Kamau said. "You do have something to give. You are important.
When TV, media, et cetera are bringing them down, this program is bringing them
up."

Although most of the students said they joined the group for its pizza parties
and to spend time with friends, they also said they found it comforting to be
with others who speak their language.

By the end of the school year, they will have created a performance that
combines acting, poetry and physical expression to articulate their experiences.
They will do the bulk of the writing for the show at a camp during spring break.

The task shouldn't be too difficult for the group, Green said.

"They throw their whole bodies into the direction they're led," she said. "No
fear."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Montgomery South

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Leah L. Jones/the Gazette; Teaching artist Anu Yadav, left,
helps Yosefe Eshete, 11, above right, direct actor Franck Ketchouang, 13, in a
Project X rehearsal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 5, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

What to do about Haitian emigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 346 words


The Jan. 29 editorial "Let Haitians in" was admirably soft-hearted. But it was
also soft-headed.

The editorial and two op-eds within three days demanded significant increases in
Haitian immigration. But why Haiti? It's poor and hurting, of course -- which is
why we've rightly launched a massive relief effort. But troubled as Haiti is,
many countries are far worse off. Congo, for instance, is much poorer than
Haiti, and years of brutal war have caused widespread suffering. How many of
Congo's 69 million people should we admit?

And what justification is there for expediting immigration applications of
people outside the earthquake zone, which is what The Post implicitly called
for, while most in the zone languish because they don't have a relative in
Miami? Even before the earthquake, a Gallup poll indicates that half of Haiti's
9 million people want to emigrate. Any "humanitarian" immigration scheme like
this would inevitably be capricious.

Immigration to the United States can never make even a small dent in the world's
misery, with 5 billion people poorer than the average Mexican. The place to help
Haitians is in Haiti, not the United States.

Mark Krikorian, Washington

The writer is executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

--

The immigration barriers and long waiting lists for Haitians will result in an
even greater catastrophe. The United States needs to respond to this natural
catastrophe and rethink its immigration policies.

This reminds us of the time when our father, Alfred Freimark, and his family
fled their home in Nazi Germany and tried to immigrate to the United States. The
United States denied entry to him and other Jewish immigrants escaping the
Holocaust. Haiti was one of the few countries that allowed the German Jews to
find refuge when the United States failed to act.

Without the Haitian people's assistance, our father and his immediate family
would have perished with thousands of other German Jews.

We need to help Haitians before it's too late.

Susan Freimark Keller, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Robert Freimark, Bainbridge Island, Wash.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 14, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

5 Myths about what the census will tell us

BYLINE: William H. Frey

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1240 words


Every 10 years, we have to count people. At least that's what Article 1, Section
2 of the Constitution says. It doesn't sound too complicated. But it is. Who
gets counted, and how, determines not only congressional representation but how
funding is distributed for a slew of federal programs that affect all of us. As
we prepare to stand and be counted in 2010 -- and the U.S. Census Bureau is
spending a lot of advertising money to make sure that everyone is -- let's note
a few misconceptions about our population  and the efforts to tally us up.

Immigration is the biggest force behind the nation's racial and ethnic
diversity.

1.If immigration stopped today, we would still see substantial gains in our
minority populations for decades to come. Recent Census Bureau projections
showed that under a "no further immigration" scenario, the minority share of our
population would rise from about 35 percent today to 42 percent in 2050. The
preschool (under age 5 ) population would become minority white. The greater
minority presence would arise from higher natural-increase rates for minorities
than for the aging white population. This momentum is already in place: Since
2000, natural population increase accounted for 62 percent of the growth of
Hispanics, the country's largest minority group, with immigration responsible
for the rest.

Already, the District and four states (Hawaii, New Mexico, California and Texas)
are minority white, and in six more, whites are less than 60 percent of the
population. Minorities now make up more than 30 percent of the residents in half
of the nation's congressional districts, compared with a quarter in 1992.

The census will tell us more about the dispersal of Hispanics and other groups
to traditional white enclaves -- suburbs and the country's midsection. A
majority of all Hispanic, black and Asian residents of major metro areas now
live in the suburbs. And since 2000, according to recent estimates, the fastest
Hispanic growth occurred in South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee and
Arkansas.

Color lines within our population are blurring in a different way, too, with
people who identify with more than one race. The number of mixed-race married
couples more than doubled since 1990, and they make up nearly 8 percent of all
marriages.

The country is getting uniformly older.

2.As a baby boomer, I am part of a demographic mob. As we age over the next 20
years, the nation as a whole will see a surge in senior citizens. But different
parts of the country will be aging at different rates, largely because selective
"younging" is going on. This is evident from census estimates showing that
during the first nine years of this decade, 25 states -- mostly in the
Northeast, Midwest and Great Plains -- and the District exhibited absolute
declines in their child populations, while 25 others, led by Nevada and Arizona,
showed gains.

This variation in where families and children live is poised to shape a
young-old regional divide that could intensify over time. Census projections for
2020, made earlier this decade, showed median ages over 40 in Maine, West
Virginia and Pennsylvania, compared with below 36 in Utah, Texas, Georgia and
California.

Big states will keep getting bigger -- especially in Congress.

3.For much of the postwar period, the Sunbelt megastates of California, Florida
and Texas just kept growing: They led all other states in adding congressional
seats based on censuses since World War II. But the economic turbulence of this
past decade will affect their political fortunes. Florida was one of the
nation's growth leaders for the first half of the decade and was poised to gain
as many as three congressional seats after the 2010 Census, tying or overtaking
New York's congressional delegation. But the mortgage meltdown led to an
unprecedented exodus from the state in the past two years. Florida's likely gain
of one seat will be its smallest addition since the 1940 Census.

California is not positioned to gain any seats for the first time since
statehood in 1850. Despite its status as an immigration magnet, the Golden State
lost large numbers of people fleeing high housing costs during the bubble years.
California might have even lost a seat had that bubble not burst.

Of the three Sunbelt behemoths, Texas will take the biggest prize, probably four
congressional seats -- its largest increase since the 1880 Census. It was
largely immune from the housing crisis late in the decade, while it gained
Katrina-driven migrants from Louisiana.

The census is the main source of information about our population.

4.Not as much as before. Unlike previous censuses, the 2010 count will provide
only bare-bones information that does little more than fulfill its
constitutional mandate. The questions will include the age, sex, race, Hispanic
origin and household relationship status of each individual, and the size and
homeownership status of each household.

What happened to all the rich data on poverty, income, ancestry, immigration,
marital status and some 30 other categories we have come to expect from the
census? Those "long form" questions have been given to a sample of census
respondents in every count going back to 1940 -- but they won't be handed out
this year. The queries have been diverted to the Census Bureau's American
Community Survey.

In 2005, the bureau began administering the ACS to 3 million households each
year to elicit the same kind of information that was previously available only
every 10 years. This large and sophisticated survey has already provided
important and timely insights on changing poverty, immigration and migration
patterns in this economic roller coaster of a decade.

New technology gives us much more demographic data than the census can.

5.Not true. Technological developments and data collected via the Internet do
give us new ways of looking at the population, and complex surveys and estimates
conducted by the Census Bureau and other organizations allow us to monitor
change over the decade -- but there is no substitute for counting everyone.
Aside from the census's constitutional mandate to provide the basis for
congressional apportionment, a national headcount also allows us to know how
many people live in the nation's cities, suburbs and neighborhoods and to break
them down according to race, age and gender.

There are plenty of examples of a decennial census surprising the experts. The
2000 Census, for instance, discovered sharp population surges in many old, large
cities. This was unanticipated for Chicago, which had experienced decades of
decline. And the spread of the nation's Hispanic population into new states such
as North Carolina far exceeded expectations.

Many government and private surveys, including the ACS, rely on the decennial
census to make sure their work accurately reflects the population as a whole.

This census will also tell us more about small but growing groups, such as
same-sex married partners and multiracial populations, whose presence and
interests can change laws and public policies.

The Census Bureau's ad campaign urges Americans to answer "10 Questions in 10
Minutes" -- and those are still 10 very important questions, whose responses
will guide us for the next 10 years.

William H. Frey is a demographer and senior fellow in the Metropolitan Policy
Program at the Brookings Institution and a research professor at the University
of Michigan's Population Studies Center.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 14, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

The universal language;
She's from Venezuela; he's from India. Romantic sparks flew between them last
Valentine's Day, despite expectations from their families that they would fall
in love with people of their own backgrounds.

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1216 words


They were an unlikely couple from the start, as friends and relatives of Yesica
Suarez and Akshaan Arora kept reminding them.

She's from Venezuela; he's from India. She's a devout Catholic; he's a
Hindu-turned-atheist. She grew up speaking Spanish and watching telenovelas; he
grew up speaking Hindi and watching Bollywood musicals.

Even at George Mason University -- where Suarez and Arora met and where
immigrants and international students make the campus of 30,000 feel like the
United Nations -- their melting-pot romance prompted friends to ask whether they
knew what they were doing. They weren't sure how to answer.

"I never thought I would date anyone outside my culture," said Suarez, a
21-year-old senior studying information systems operation management.

"It's sometimes more easy to talk to someone who knows the language you do, who
knows the culture you do," said Arora, a 21-year-old finance major.

The United States is home to every kind of immigrant -- Bosnians and Bolivians,
Circassians and Frisians -- but when it comes to dating, and especially
marrying, most people stick with their own kind. Of married immigrants in the
United States, 10 percent are wed to immigrants from a different country, 19
percent to U.S. natives and 71 percent to immigrants from the same country,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

There are plenty of reasons not to date across cultures: religious differences,
family intolerance, social gatherings that are deadly boring for the significant
other who doesn't understand the language. But in the densely diverse Washington
area, many immigrants cross paths, and where paths cross, love can blossom.

It did for Suarez and Arora. They met in 2008 when they pledged the same
professional fraternity at George Mason and immediately formed a tight
friendship. Both had long-distance relationships -- she with a guy who lived in
Venezuela; he with a woman in Sweden -- and they would talk on the phone into
the early hours of the morning, counseling each other on love.

But when those relationships ended, the two started to notice things about each
other.

"Her lips," he said. "Definitely her lips."

His eyes -- "big, brown puppy eyes," Suarez said.

Arora started behaving differently. "He was being more special with me," she
said. "Like we'd be at a friend's party and he'd be like, 'Hey, are you going to
stay late?' And he would get the pool stick for me, and not for anyone else."

Then, a year ago, he asked her to spend Valentine's Day with him in Baltimore.
They walked around the Inner Harbor and watched a kids' magic show on the
sidewalk. Arora seemed nervous.

"Normally, he's very talkative," Suarez said. "But he was so quiet. I was like,
'Come on, hey, what's up, we're best friends.'"

As the afternoon progressed, she got cold. He put his arm around her shoulders,
and they kissed.

Family skepticism

But falling in love was just the first step. What would they tell their
families?

For the first six months, they said nothing. Suarez's parents knew she had a
friend named Akshaan, but only her younger sister, who was sworn to secrecy,
knew they were dating.

When she finally broke the news to her parents, "at first, my mom was really
confused," said Suarez, whose family moved to Woodbridge when she was 10. "She
would say, 'He's from India, that's a different culture from you, he doesn't
speak Spanish.' . . . She'd be like, 'Bring him over,' and totally interrogate
him."

The interrogations didn't necessarily calm her fears. "She's like, 'Yesica, he
doesn't believe in God, are you okay with that?' "

Jaclyn Chaudhuri, who blogs about intercultural relationships at gorigirl.com,
said that family members can be one of the biggest sticking points. "They're not
sure what to talk about -- cultural references, TV shows, all the odds and ends
that you share in growing up in a particular culture or particular nation, you
just don't have those things to relate to."

Negotiating cultural chasms takes work, said Martha Silva, an immigrant from
Colombia who married an immigrant from Iran 25 years ago. At social gatherings,
Silva and her husband, Kambiz Karimian, limit the time they chat with others in
Spanish or Farsi before switching to English.

"In Iranian culture, the men don't usually ask each other's wives to dance,"
Silva said, whereas in Colombia, that is common among friends. Silva now dances
with friends they've known for decades, and Karimian doesn't mind.

Arora's parents live in India. "My mom really, really expected me to marry
within my culture," said Arora, who came to the United States four years ago to
attend college. In the absence of his parents, his aunts and sisters, who live
with him in Vienna, vetted Suarez.

"I was so nervous," Suarez said. "Oh, my God, am I going to be like the awkward
kid here? Are they going to ask too many questions? Are they going to stare at
me?"

But the women bonded over girl talk. "They basically just sat down and talked
about me. They just bashed me down for hours," Arora said, laughing as the
couple recently shared a sundae pie at George Mason's food court.

The two cut striking figures on campus. He's 6-foot-3, with an open smile and
those puppy eyes; she's 5-foot-10, with long, chestnut-colored hair and a wide,
easy smile. At school, they cuddle often. But with his socially conservative
family, they are careful not to be too "smoochy."

"We don't show a lot of affection in front of them," Arora said.

Suarez's mom, Florangel Pernia, said she'd always worried that American
boyfriends might not be as family-oriented as Venezuelans. She had no idea what
to expect from an Indian. But she was won over last year when Suarez had
surgery.

"I was expecting a phone call later, but no, he showed up. He just stayed quiet
in a corner, waiting and waiting all the time," she said. "I could see how
concerned he was, trying to talk to the doctor."

Suarez couldn't drive after the surgery, so Arora drove her everywhere. "When I
see those kinds of behaviors with my daughter, I'm very happy that she's with
this guy."

Overcoming differences

That doesn't mean everything always goes smoothly. When Arora prepared a
vegetable dish for Suarez's family a few months ago, her father screamed. Her
sister cried. Everyone started gulping down milk.

"If you look in her cupboard, she has only one small bottle of black pepper,"
Arora said. "In ours, we have black pepper, red pepper, Cajun pepper, green
chili pepper."

And there are more serious differences, too, as they discovered when discussing
a future that might include children. "I'm like, 'I'm going to teach them how to
be Catholic,' " Suarez said, "and he's like, 'No, no, they'll choose for
themselves.' "

But they have much in common. Both are athletic -- they played a lot of tennis
over the summer -- and he has been helping her sharpen her billiards skills.
They have come up with rituals, such as Monday movie nights, when they take
turns choosing the film. (She picks mushy movies; he likes horror.)

They don't know where they'll end up living after graduation, but they fantasize
about moving to Rome. Why?

"Because it's a completely new culture for both of us," Suarez said. "It's not
one person's." That also goes for the relationship they've made together, she
said. "I feel like we created our own thing: a Spanish-American-Indian mix."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Tracy A. Woodward/the Washington Post; At top, GMU
students Yesica Suarez and Akshaan Arora, both 21, share an affectionate moment
in his kitchen in Vienna during a lunch date. Above, they clown around.
IMAGE
IMAGE; By Tracy A. Woodward/the Washington Post; Akshaan Arora serves lunch for
his sisters Aashana, left, and Akanksha and his girlfriend, Yesica Suarez.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

How the GOP can win Hispanics

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 167 words


The Feb. 21 news story "Republican Party looks to rebuild support among
Hispanics" portrayed the courtship of the Hispanic vote as an uphill battle.

But despite the rhetoric of groups that favor amnesty for illegal immigrants,
the Hispanic vote cannot be successfully wooed by a "one-hit wonder" version of
immigration reform. The Hispanic vote can be won by returning to the values that
have drawn more than 38 million immigrants to our shores. Job security,
affordable health care and national security are issues that affect every
American, regardless of race or ethnicity.

President Bush received 40 percent of the Hispanic vote by focusing not on
immigration but on the need to support small businesses, create jobs and
preserve familial values. Republicans can secure the Hispanic vote by
emphasizing those issues that unite us as a country, issues that extend far
beyond immigration.

Lamar Smith, Washington

The writer, a Republican, represents Texas's 21st District in the House of
Representatives.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Obama's closed-door policy

BYLINE: Joshua Hoyt

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 732 words


I have known Barack Obama since 1986, when we were both community organizers. I
am still organizing on the streets of Chicago, and what I see in the Latino
community makes me fear that the president is oblivious to the pain wrought by
our broken immigration system. It could have a profound effect on the 2010 and
2012 elections.

It didn't have to be this way. For a brief moment last year it appeared that
Obama might realign the modern political map, cementing the Latino vote into the
Democratic coalition by speaking plainly to the American people on the need for
comprehensive immigration reform.

Instead, he squandered a political gift handed to him by the Republican Party's
nativist wing -- and its anti-immigrant rhetoric -- during the 2008 campaign.
Candidate Obama promised to make immigration reform a priority during his first
year in office, and the Latino vote surged to 10 million, from 7.8 million in
2004, and swung eight percentage points toward the Democrats.

Latinos gave 59 percent of their vote to John Kerry in 2004 but gave Obama 67
percent in 2008. The immigrant Latino vote expanded from 52 percent for Kerry to
75 percent for Obama, enough to deliver Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico and Florida
-- and arguably North Carolina, Indiana and Pennsylvania.

But since taking office Obama has pursued a policy of increased deportations.
The president's tin ear for Latino passion on this issue was clear to us in
Chicago during his short tenure as our U.S. senator.

After he went into politics, Obama and I worked collegially on issues as diverse
as health care for working families to citizenship for new Americans. But we
last talked in September 2006, after I publicly criticized his vote as our new
U.S. senator in favor of a fence along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Obama was shocked at the visceral anger the fence vote caused among his closest
Latino allies. At a meeting for damage control, Carmen VelÃ¡squez, founder of
the Alivio Medical Center for the uninsured and the closest thing to the patron
saint of the Mexican American poor, refused to shake his hand. Obama apologized
for not understanding the intensity of their feelings -- but clinically
explained that the vote was necessary to restore public confidence in
immigration enforcement.

Yet Obama did not prioritize the issue last year. To permanently affix the
growing Latino vote to the Democratic coalition, he needed to call consistently
for Congress to pass immigration reform. Instead, the issue got a brief mention
near the end of his State of the Union speech, and Democrats are getting cold
feet ahead of the midterm elections.

In its first year, the Obama administration was on track to deport some 400,000
immigrants -- far more than during George W. Bush's last year in office.  On the
anniversary of Obama's inauguration, Hoy, the Spanish-language newspaper in
Chicago, ran a full-page picture of the president on its cover under the
headline "Promesa Por Cumplir" ("Unkept Promise"). The sense of betrayal among
Latinos -- especially immigrants -- is palpable, just as it was after Obama's
2006 vote on the border fence.

As president, Obama has followed the cerebral strategy that increased
enforcement will win support for immigration reform. But if there is no serious
progress on the issue, many disillusioned Latinos will stay home in November.
Others will decide that because Democrats can't deliver on immigration reform,
they might as well vote Republican on the values issues. Depressed Latino
turnout in Illinois may well cost the Democrats the Senate seat that Obama once
held.

And if the Democrats are cowardly on immigration when they have large majorities
in the House and Senate, how will they feel after taking some losses in
November? What will Obama's 2012 campaign promise to Latinos be? "Trust me on
immigration reform. This time I really mean it"? He might as well say adios to
those electoral college votes.

Obama must lead the charge for immigration reform by telling Americans  the
truth: that tough, fair and compassionate immigration reform is necessary for
America's economy and national security, and not just for Latino voters. He must
also, somehow, convince Latinos that he really does feel their pain.

The writer, a community organizer in Chicago since 1977, is executive director
of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. His e-mail address
is jhoyt@icirr.org

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Still stuck in the shadows

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 810 words


On Sunday, tens of thousands of Americans who supported Barack Obama's
presidential campaign in 2008 will gather on the Mall  to protest the
president's lack of action on a cause to which he had committed himself
throughout the campaign: immigration reform.

As a candidate, Obama spoke eloquently of the need to bring the estimated 11
million immigrants here without documentation "out of the shadows." As
president, he stepped up the number of deportations to an all-time high: 298,401
in fiscal 2009, a 13 percent increase over the last year of George W. Bush's
presidency. But reforming our ridiculous immigration laws so that the millions
of immigrants here illegally could have a path to legalization was deferred,
like so many administration commitments, until health-care reform was enacted.

So immigrants and Latinos held their tongues, despite the increase in
deportations that wreaked havoc in their communities, in hopes that Year Two of
the Obama presidency would be better. They waited until Obama's State of the
Union address, in which the president devoted one sentence -- "one paltry
sentence," in the words of Rep. Luis Gutierrez, the Chicago Democrat who is the
leading advocate for America's immigrants in the House -- to the issue.

At which point, Latino America exploded. The Spanish-language press rang with
cries of betrayal. Leaders pointed out that 2 million more Latinos voted in 2008
than in 2004, and that they had given 67 percent of their vote to Obama. Without
the Latino surge, they argued, Obama would not have carried Colorado, Nevada,
Florida and other swing states.

"There's huge discontent, especially among the young," says Angelica Salas, who
heads the Coalition for Humane Immigration Reform of Los Angeles. "They see
their parents snatched away, they have to put their lives on hold." (There are
an estimated 4 million U.S.-born American-citizen children of undocumented
parents.)

And so, the immigrant leaders called a march on Washington that, as Gutierrez
says, "is primarily directed at President Obama and his administration." In that
sense, the march comes straight out of the A. Philip Randolph playbook.
Randolph, the president of the old Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, called
the first March on Washington in 1941 to pressure Franklin Roosevelt to issue an
executive order desegregating defense factories. When Roosevelt issued the
order, Randolph agreed to call off the march. But he called for such a march
again in 1948 to pressure Harry Truman to desegregate the armed forces -- and
when Truman issued that order, Randolph again called off the march. The third
such march he called -- in the summer of 1963, to demand the passage of civil
rights legislation -- famously and gloriously took place.

The civil rights leaders who have called this march don't doubt that if Obama
could enact immigration reform by executive order, he would. In his meeting with
them last Thursday, the president affirmed his commitment to the cause. Whether
it will become his legislative priority is another question: Congress is waiting
to see what Obama does, even as Obama says he needs to see some GOP willingness
to enact reform (and this is certainly a cause that some leading Republicans,
most notably John McCain, have supported in the past).

None of the immigrant advocates says that this is an easy issue. Historically,
immigration reform has been enacted during times of prosperity, not recession.
But no path to legalization has been staked out since 1986 -- a long time for
millions of people to live in the shadows. "There's always an excuse," says
Salas. "First it was terrorism, now it's the recession."

For his part, Gutierrez has made clear that his vote for health-care reform may
depend on the president's willingness to push immigration reform this year.
"This is not easy," he says. "My office is covered with pictures of the
president with me. We worked hard for his election. My wife adores him."

But like other key groups within the Democratic base (such as labor) that saw
their signature issued deferred and now fear that the ability to enact
progressive legislation will end in November, the Latino leadership feels it can
wait no longer. "I'm very hopeful" that the president will agree to push for
legislation, says Gutierrez. "The ball is in his court."

And if the president doesn't agree? "We will go into the field," says Gutierrez,
"like the civil rights movement and the suffragists did." "We will escalate,"
says Gustavo Torres of Casa de Maryland, "to civil disobedience."

A further contingency plan confronts Obama with a more palpable threat. "The
Latino community will stay home in the elections of 2010 and 2012," says Torres.

You can argue that that wouldn't be in Latinos' self-interest -- but absent
immigration reform, that case is getting harder and harder to make.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Economic gloom drives Salvadoran couple home;
Most area immigrants are instead attempting to ride out U.S. downturn

BYLINE: Elahe Izadi; The Gazette

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PG18

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR


When Jose and Maria Campos moved to El Salvador from a basement apartment in
Langley Park in October, they moved into the spacious three-story house they
spent nine years remodeling from thousands of miles away. It has a balcony and a
garage, and cost them more than $60,000.

They now spend evenings on their breezy terrace overlooking their neighborhood
on the outskirts of San Salvador, which they said has changed almost beyond
recognition. And when the couple talk about the Potomac River or traveling along
University Boulevard in Silver Spring, their eyes light up. They look like
immigrants talking about home while living in a foreign land.

"I came back, but I didn't come back willingly," Maria, 59, said in Spanish. "I
came back because we had to."

Like many immigrants in Prince George's County, Jose, 59, couldn't find a steady
job in the decimated American job market. But unlike many Latino immigrants who
are riding out the recession, Jose and Maria returned to their homeland.

Although happy to live near their children and grandchildren, they regret the
choice they've made. They worry about how they will support themselves, even
feed themselves, in El Salvador's even harsher economic climate.

Despite the recession and lack of jobs, few Latino immigrants say they will
return to their home countries as Jose and Maria did.

An August 2009 survey by the nonprofit think tank Inter-American Dialogue found
that one-third of Latino immigrants wished to return to their home countries in
the next five years, but only 5 percent said they would leave due to the lack of
jobs in the United States.

The most common reason: to reunite with families. The bad economy, however,
contributes to a general feeling of anxiety.

"In our results, the percentage of people who wanted to return was not low, it
was high. It doesn't mean they will. It just means the state of anxiety you're
faced with means it makes you consider returning," said Manuel Orozco,
remittances and development program director at Inter-American Dialogue. "When
we ask them if they were planning to return, 27 percent of Salvadorans said yes.
A year ago, it was 20 percent. So it's only an indicator that you are
concerned."

It's unclear whether Salvadorans are still migrating to the United States in the
same numbers as they did before the recession. One of the best ways to track
migration trends is through the amount of remittances -- the money sent from
immigrants to their home countries, according to Katharine Andrade-Eelchoff, a
former professor and researcher at the Universidad Centroamericana. The $3.788
billion sent in remittance money from the United States to El Salvador in 2008
dwindled to $3.465 billion in 2009, an 8.5 percent drop, according to the
Inter-American Development Bank.

At the Casa de Maryland Workers' Center in Langley Park, more people are waiting
for fewer jobs, says AndrÃ© Vainqueur, manager of the center.

Jose Campos went to the workers' centers in Langley Park and Silver Spring often
when he lived in America. He visited the Langley Park center the week he flew
back to El Salvador to say goodbye to the people who run the center.

Vilma del Carmen, 36, of Langley Park also comes to the center looking for work.
She came from El Salvador four years ago, and more than a year ago was laid off
from a steady fabric store job. She sends money back to her two teenage sons and
an adult sister who has epilepsy.

"It's becoming harder and harder for people to get a good job, a steady job. I'm
very concerned," she said.

Del Carmen is taking English classes through the center to make herself more
employable, something that Casa Executive Director Gustavo Torres said he is
seeing among many local immigrants at the center.

"[English for Speakers of Other Languages] classes are very, very essential, and
ours are packed. We have more than 500 [enrolled] and a waiting list, too," he
said. "People really realized they need to improve their language [skills] so
they can be more marketable for jobs."

Jose and Maria tried, but couldn't wait for the economy to get better. Maria had
a well-paying job as a housekeeper, but her health deteriorated and the stress
of working long hours wasn't helping.

Meanwhile, Jose couldn't find construction and gardening jobs as easily.

"We also had to pay the rent, and my job wasn't paying much," Jose said. "Her
pay was good, but it was difficult, because her health was worsening. Maybe if
there were more opportunities [for me], we would have stayed."

The prospect of enduring another winter, when temporary jobs in construction and
gardening become even more scarce, helped push them to return to El Salvador, to
the house they had worked so hard to remodel but had never lived in.

The couple said it's even harder for them to find work in El Salvador than in
Maryland because of the economy and also because older adults have a harder time
competing against young people than in the United States. Right now, they're
trying to sell a car and living off their savings, unsure of what to do next
year when their savings dry up. They say their neighborhood has become plagued
with violence and crime in the past few years, so they rarely go out.

Maria says she would like to return to America eventually.

"Even in my age, if my health was better, I would go again," she said.

Maria spends a lot of time in the kitchen Jose designed for her, a plan based
upon the many kitchens he built and painted in Prince George's and Montgomery
counties. It's much nicer than the Maryland basement apartments they've lived in
-- stainless steel refrigerator, new appliances, painted a cheerful green -- and
it doesn't have cockroaches.

Yet she still thinks about her American life. She wants to get back to it
someday.

"I realized my dream," she said. "But I left it all with great love."

Gazette reporter Elahe Izadi traveled to El Salvador last month to examine the
impact of the U.S. recession on local immigrants working to send money to their
families and communities in El Salvador. This project was produced on a World
Affairs Journalism Fellowship directed by the International Center for
Journalists and funded by the Ethics and Excellence in Journalism Foundation.
This report was part of a three-part package that ran March 10 in the Gazette.
For more articles, as well as videos and slideshows, see
http://www.gazette.net/fracturedpipeline.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mauricio DÃ­az For The Gazette; Jose and Maria Campos relax in
their San Salvador home, which they spent years remodeling and moved to from a
basement apartment in Langley Park. Still, they miss the United States and
regret leaving.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Politics & The Nation

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 281 words

Politics & The Nation

A broad coalition rallies for an overhaul of immigration laws A3

Nations reject coral protections at global wildlife conference A4

Nation Digest

Spring brings snow to southern Plains A5

Victory lap planned to gain support for health-care overhaul A12

Senators could be facing a long week  A12

The World

Iraqi election board rejects recount A6

Chinese official: U.S. would lose trade war A6

Foreign Digest

Netanyahu: Sharp words about E. Jerusalem A6

French regional voters elect Socialists, allies A7

13 die in Afghanistan amid calls for peace with militants A8

The kite stunner: Authorities ground a popular festival tradition A9

Washington Business

A sign of life in commercial real estate? A13

Value Added {vbar} Thomas Heath

Getting ahead took going out on own for firm founder  A13

New at the Top: Paula J. Dobriansky

Family history inspires commitment to international affairs A13

Appointments A14

Bankruptcies A14

Facetime A14

Insider transactions A14

The Fed Page

In creating consumer financial regulatory agency, no guarantees A15

Postal Service to propose five-day week A15

Robert Barnes {vbar} High Court

Liu may be a test case for Obama judicial picks A15

Opinion

Editorial: Gov. McDonnell's transportation pixie dust vanishes A16

Editorial: U.S. sugar subsidies leave a sour taste A16

Editorial: What an Obama agreement on Guantanamo issues

should include A16

Jackson Diehl: Can Obama get Abbas to the negotiating table?  A17

E.J. Dionne Jr.: Yes, Obama has brought change to Washington A17

Pravin Godhan: How coal can empower South Africa A17

Robert J. Samuelson: Greenspan's misconceptions

on the financial crisis A17

Colbert I. King: Michael Steele loses his backbone, again A17

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A broken immigration system

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 494 words


The courage of Sens. Charles E. Schumer (D- N.Y.) and Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.)
in tackling  immigration reform is encouraging ["The right way to mend
immigration," Washington Forum, March 19]. As a citizen active in science
internationally and a friend of many immigrants (including my wife), I have
become painfully aware of how broken this system is, in ways that would surprise
many Americans.

Among acquaintances who have applied for legal immigration, almost all have been
subjected to serious errors during processing. Commonly, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services loses files and fees or misreads documents. Getting USCIS
to correct its own mistakes can require an additional fee of several hundred
dollars and months of waiting.

Applications for permanent green cards cannot be submitted until three months
before the expiration of temporary cards, but the "goal" for processing is six
months, so most applicants spend months with expired green cards.

Simple tourist visas from non-visa waiver countries require a highly intrusive
personal interview at a U.S. embassy or consulate. Single women need not apply
because they might be tempted to marry an American.  This includes
internationally known professionals.

The result is that America shows an ugly face to those who wish to visit us,
work with us or live here.

John Eichelberger, Leesburg

--

While I applaud the bipartisan effort by Sens. Charles E. Schumer and Lindsey O.
Graham to fix U.S. immigration policy, I find an area absent from their proposal
in the  debate over illegal immigration.

Why not include a fifth pillar and invest in the home countries of undocumented
workers? Why can't we work to make it unnecessary for these workers to feel the
need to leave their countries of origin in the first place? Until the underlying
reasons are addressed, the problems will remain.

Valerie Lamont, McLean

--

Eva Rodriguez's complaint about people flying flags from their respective
countries at the immigration reform march Sunday [Post Partisan, March 23] was
confusing. She answered her own question: Of course the flags are symbols of
pride or cultural identity.

I have lived for extended periods in three Latin American countries and have
flown American flags in celebration (with my Latin compatriots) on U.S. national
festival days (e.g., July 4) in each one. And like Ms. Rodriguez's  family
learning English, my family and I learned Spanish. Besides, at the march,
American flags large and small were everywhere and were even being given away.
I'd wager there were at least twice as many American flags as sovereign national
flags.

Probably almost as numerous as country flags were the signs and posters
appealing to the moral side of reform.  Why do we as Americans permit raids of
homes and workplaces, deport "illegals" (usually parents) and split up families
rather than help them find at least temporary work while an immigration reform
package is framed and debated?

Gary Garriott, McLean

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A citizenship birthright? Maybe not.

BYLINE: George F. Will

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 792 words


A simple reform would drain some scalding steam from immigration arguments that
may soon again be at a roiling boil. It would bring the interpretation of the
14th Amendment into conformity with what the authors of its text intended, and
with common sense, thereby removing an incentive for illegal immigration.

To end the practice of "birthright citizenship," all that is required is to
correct the misinterpretation of that amendment's first sentence: "All persons
born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they
reside." From these words has flowed the practice of conferring citizenship on
children born here to illegal immigrants.

A parent from a poor country, writes professor Lino Graglia of the University of
Texas law school, "can hardly do more for a child than make him or her an
American citizen, entitled to all the advantages of the American welfare state."
Therefore, "It is difficult to imagine a more irrational and self-defeating
legal system than one which makes unauthorized entry into this country a
criminal offense and simultaneously provides perhaps the greatest possible
inducement to illegal entry."

Writing in the Texas Review of Law and Politics, Graglia says this irrationality
is rooted in a misunderstanding of the phrase "subject to the jurisdiction
thereof." What was this intended or understood to mean by those who wrote it in
1866 and ratified it in 1868? The authors and ratifiers could not have intended
birthright citizenship for illegal immigrants because in 1868 there were and
never had been any illegal immigrants because no law ever had restricted
immigration.

If those who wrote and ratified the 14th Amendment had imagined laws restricting
immigration -- and had anticipated huge waves of illegal immigration -- is it
reasonable to presume they would have wanted to provide the reward of
citizenship to the children of the violators of those laws? Surely not.

The Civil Rights Act of 1866 begins with language from which the 14th
Amendment's citizenship clause is derived: "All persons born in the United
States, and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed, are
hereby declared to be citizens of the United States." (Emphasis added.) The
explicit exclusion of Indians from birthright citizenship was not repeated in
the 14th Amendment because it was considered unnecessary. Although Indians were
at least partially subject to U.S. jurisdiction, they owed allegiance to their
tribes, not the United States. This reasoning -- divided allegiance -- applies
equally to exclude the children of resident aliens, legal as well as illegal,
from birthright citizenship. Indeed, today's regulations issued by the
departments of Homeland Security and Justice stipulate:

"A person born in the United States to a foreign diplomatic officer accredited
to the United States, as a matter of international law, is not subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States. That person is not a United States citizen
under the 14th Amendment."

Sen. Lyman Trumbull of Illinois was, Graglia writes, one of two "principal
authors of the citizenship clauses in 1866 act and the 14th Amendment." He said
that "subject to the jurisdiction of the United States" meant subject to its
"complete" jurisdiction, meaning "not owing allegiance to anybody else." Hence
children whose Indian parents had tribal allegiances were excluded from
birthright citizenship.

Appropriately, in 1884 the Supreme Court held that children born to Indian
parents were not born "subject to" U.S. jurisdiction because, among other
reasons, the person so born could not change his status by his "own will without
the action or assent of the United States." And "no one can become a citizen of
a nation without its consent." Graglia says this decision "seemed to establish"
that U.S. citizenship is "a consensual relation, requiring the consent of the
United States." So: "This would clearly settle the question of birthright
citizenship for children of illegal aliens. There cannot be a more total or
forceful denial of consent to a person's citizenship than to make the source of
that person's presence in the nation illegal."

Congress has heard testimony estimating that more than two-thirds of all births
in Los Angeles public hospitals, and more than half of all births in that city,
and nearly 10 percent of all births in the nation in recent years, have been to
mothers who are here illegally. Graglia seems to establish that there is no
constitutional impediment to Congress ending the granting of birthright
citizenship to those whose presence here is "not only without the government's
consent but in violation of its law."

georgewill@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Jose Luis Magana/associated Press; Demonstrators march in front
of the Capitol in favor of immigration reform March 21.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Local Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 585 words


LABOR

SEIU lobbying up in fourth quarter

The Service Employees International Union spent $683,371 lobbying the federal
government in the fourth quarter on issues such as health care, labor laws and
immigration.

That's up from the nearly $353,531 in the year-ago period, but down from the
nearly $791,228 it spent in the third quarter of 2009.

The District-based SEIU -- which has 2.2 million members, among them health-care
workers and public employees -- lobbied on issues including the health-care
overhaul legislation that President Obama signed into law last week.

The SEIU also lobbied the House and the Senate on issues such as labor law,
immigration, banking reform, elections and clean energy, according to a report
filed March 4 with the House clerk's office. The union also lobbied both houses
of Congress and the Department of Homeland Security on security policy.

-- Associated Press

 REGULATORS

AT&T and Verizon object to FCC move

AT&T and Verizon Wireless faulted federal regulators for restricting the airwave
leases that the two companies can negotiate with a wholesaler of wireless
Internet service.

The Federal Communications Commission on Friday approved Harbinger Capital
Partners Funds' acquisition of SkyTerra Communications, a Reston provider of
mobile satellite services that plans to sell access to broadband network
operators. But the FCC required SkyTerra to seek approval before leasing
services to the "the largest or second-largest wireless provider," a condition
Harbinger had proposed. Verizon Wireless is the biggest wireless company,
followed by AT&T.

"The commission is setting a very disturbing precedent," James Cicconi, AT&T's
senior executive vice president for external and legislative affairs, said in an
e-mailed statement. "This action is manifestly unwise and potentially unlawful."

-- Bloomberg News

Mergers & Acquisitions

Blackboard closes deal for N.C. firm

 District-based Blackboard Inc. announced Monday that it has completed the
acquisition of privately held Saf-T-Net, a company that provides messaging and
mass-notification services used in schools.

The local education technology firm paid approximately $33 million in cash for
the Raleigh, N.C.-based company. Saf-T-Net employs about 65 people and has more
than 2,000 schools as clients. Blackboard said the combined operations should
expand the company's opportunities and allow for savings.

-- Mike Musgrove

Hospitality

DiamondRock wins new terms on debt

DiamondRock Hospitality of Bethesda amended certain parts of its debt secured by
a resort in the Virgin Islands, the real estate investment trust said Monday.

The deal waives penalty interest and provides an extension of the
limited-recourse mortgage loan secured by Frenchman's Reef and Morning Star
Marriott Beach Resort.

Meanwhile, DiamondRock will prefund some construction projects in an escrow
account and pay its lender a $150,000 modification fee.

First-quarter results will reverse a $3.1 million penalty interest that accrued
last year.

DiamondRock owns 20 hotels, with 9,600 rooms.

-- Associated Press

Contracting

SAIC to provide IT services to Army

Defense contractor Science Applications International Corp. of McLean said
Monday that it received a contract to provide planning and management services
to a U.S. Army office that provides information technology support throughout
the Military Health System.

The contract has a one-year base period and four possible one-year extensions;
in total, the deal would be worth $22 million.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Elaine Thompson/associated Press; The Service Employees
International Union doubled fourth-quarter lobbying expenses as major
health-care legislation cleared Congress.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Turf battle slows corruption probes;
Homeland Security IG often in conflict with Border Patrol, FBI

BYLINE: Andrew Becker

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 926 words


Offices charged with ferreting out corruption among U.S. border and immigration
employees are engaged in a turf battle that has delayed some investigations and
threatens to undermine a host of enforcement actions, records and interviews
show.

The conflict pits the inspector general's office in the Department of Homeland
Security against the agency's Customs and Border Protection (CBP) division and
the FBI.

The turf battle came to a head about a week before a failed Christmas Day
terrorist attack aboard an airliner, when Assistant Inspector General Thomas M.
Frost ordered the top internal affairs official at CBP to drop any
investigations underway outside the inspector general's supervision.

In a Dec. 16 memo, Frost ordered James Tomsheck, the CBP commissioner for
internal affairs, "to cease criminal investigations of any matter involving a
DHS program or employee." Frost also ordered CBP to stop participating in task
forces or sharing information with other agencies unless coordinated through the
inspector general's office.

Some investigators think the order contradicts calls by the Homeland Security
Department, Congress and the White House demanding increased agency cooperation.
But an IG official said it was meant to improve internal-affairs inquiries.

Frost declined to comment, but his deputy, James Gaughran, said having too many
investigating agencies risks intelligence leaks that can jeopardize
investigators' safety.

"If there's going to be one focal point of sharing information, it should be the
[inspector general]," he said.

Tomsheck, while not directly commenting on the memo, said in a statement that
his office is committed to "genuine cooperation and collaboration" with other
agencies to address workforce corruption.

When the memo was issued, CBP's internal affairs office was involved in about
100 criminal corruption inquiries, including joint investigations with the FBI,
the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives. The cases cover allegations including taking bribes
from drug traffickers and improper searches of law enforcement databases.

The memo comes as the number of corruption investigations rises. In the last
fiscal year, the inspector general's office opened more than 80 corruption cases
involving immigration and border officers in the four states adjoining Mexico,
the most since 2005, according to statistics obtained through the federal
Freedom of Information Act.

Nationwide, the office had more than 230 ongoing corruption investigations as of
the end of the last fiscal year. The FBI has more than 110 open border-related
cases.

The United States has spent billions of dollars in recent years to bolster
border enforcement, including a doubling of the number of Border Patrol agents.
Officials say the crackdown has spurred drug and human-smuggling gangs to
redouble efforts to recruit agents. More than 100 CBP employees have been
arrested, indicted or convicted in  corruption-related cases  since October
2004.

Friction between the inspector general and other agencies has roots in San
Diego, where a federal anti-corruption task force began about 15 years ago. San
Diego is also where the FBI has more open corruption cases than anywhere else in
the country, said Keith A. Byers, who until recently was the agency's national
coordinator of border corruption task forces. He said information sharing is
critical. San Diego is home to the busiest U.S. land border crossing, according
to CBP.

Tension persists, however, over cases such as that of Border Patrol agents Raul
and Fidel Villarreal, brothers suspected of assisting human-smugglers. Both have
pleaded not guilty to bribery, human-smuggling and other charges.

The task force joined an investigation into the brothers' activities launched by
the inspector general's office and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, DHS's
investigative arm.

But the squads eventually parted ways.

Investigators say too many people knew about the probe, raising suspicions that
the brothers were tipped.

CBP has added more than 200 internal affairs agents since 2006. The FBI in the
past year has expanded the number of task forces focused on uncovering border
corruption from six to 14 and hopes to create around 20 nationwide. Gaughran
said the inspector general's office has 200 agents assigned to investigate more
than 200,000 DHS employees. The FBI has about 120 agents working the southwest
border.

Part of the debate is whether CBP internal affairs agents have the authority to
seek and use wiretaps, search warrants and other tools. ICE and the inspector
general's office have resisted CBP's efforts to have such authority because they
fear it would encroach on their investigative turf, said Ralph Basham, a retired
CBP commissioner.

Former ICE chief Julie Myers Wood said the issue is more complicated.
Anti-corruption efforts need more funding and focus, Myers said. But she balked
at giving CBP agents criminal-investigator status because she said it would blur
responsibilities.

In San Diego, Michael Skerlos, a supervising federal prosecutor assigned to
mediate task force issues, said the U.S. attorney's office thinks the
collaborative model is the best for rooting out corruption. Skerlos added that
he has spent the past six months increasing communication among the task force
agencies.

"It's dangerous for different agencies to work [separately] on the same case.
It's inefficient and wholly ineffective," he said.

Becker is a reporter for the nonprofit Center for Investigative Reporting in
Berkeley, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 2, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Palin: Obama lacks guts on immigration;
President assailed over federal lawsuit against Arizona law

BYLINE: Matt DeLong

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 251 words


Former Alaska governor Sarah Palin said Sunday that Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R)
has "the cojones" that President Obama "does not have" to take on illegal
immigration.

Appearing on "Fox News Sunday," Palin (R) blasted Obama  over the Justice
Department's lawsuit to block Arizona's controversial new law and attacked him
in particular for not addressing "sanctuary cities" -- where local law
enforcement is prohibited from asking people about their immigration status.
Arizona's law bans sanctuary cities.

Palin said the president and congressional Democrats "are all wet" on plans to
let the George W. Bush administration's tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans
expire. "It's idiotic to think about increasing taxes at a time like this,"
Palin said. She added that her "palm isn't large enough" to write all her notes
down, and she proceeded to read notes about tax policy from a sheet of paper.

Palin declined to address "fickle" polls showing that she remains unpopular with
independents. "I don't blame people for not knowing what I stand for," Palin
said. "If I believed everything I read in the media, I wouldn't like me either."

Palin said her family has been avoiding their front yard and "certain angles" in
their home after an investigative reporter moved in next door. She said her
family has changed its behavior as a result of his arrival, and she accused the
reporter, Joe McGinniss, of infringing  its privacy and trying to "hamper some
of our freedom."

"Some people need to get a life," Palin said.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. driver had record of DUIs before fatal crash

BYLINE: Jennifer Buske and Paul Duggan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1045 words


An alleged drunk driver involved in a crash Sunday morning that killed a
Catholic nun in Prince William County and left two other nuns gravely injured
has a record of numerous motor vehicle violations in recent years, including two
drunken-driving cases for which he served 20 days in jail, according to
authorities and court records.

The suspect, Carlos A. Martinelly Montano, 23, an illegal immigrant from
Bolivia, was also detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement after a
drunken-driving arrest in 2008. Montano was released on his own recognizance
pending a deportation hearing, which has yet to occur because of a backlog, said
ICE spokeswoman Cori Bassett.

Montano "has reported as required on a monthly basis to ICE" while awaiting the
hearing, Bassett said. Gang members and other violent criminals are often jailed
to await deportation hearings, but two drunken-driving arrests "aren't enough to
warrant detention," said an immigration official, speaking on the condition of
anonymity because the case against Montano is pending.

Prince William Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B. Ebert voiced anger about the case
in an interview Monday.

"He's thumbed his nose at the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia for years,"
Ebert said of Montano. "He continued to drive, even though his privilege had
been revoked and he didn't have the right to drive. And he continued to drive
drunk, which led to this horrible, horrible situation."

Montano was intoxicated when the 1997 Subaru Outback he was driving in the
Bristow area struck a guardrail on Bristow Road near Wright Lane shortly before
8:30 a.m. Sunday, police said. The Outback, traveling north, spun out of control
and careered into the southbound lanes, colliding head-on with the nuns' 2003
Toyota Corolla.

Sister Denise Mosier, 66, a former missionary in Africa who was riding in the
back seat, was killed. The driver, Sister Connie Ruth Lupton, 75, and the
front-seat passenger, Sister Charlotte Lange, 70, were in critical condition
Monday at Inova Fairfax Hospital, said Sister Glenna Smith, a spokeswoman for
the Benedictine Sisters of Virginia, the nuns' order.

Police did not say whether Lange and Lupton were wearing seat belts, but Mosier
apparently was not wearing one.

Mosier, Lupton and Lange, residents of the Saint Benedict convent in Richmond,
were on their way to a five-day religious retreat at the Benedictine Sisters
monastery in Prince William. As for the injured nuns' prognosis, Smith said: "We
don't know yet. They're in the trauma unit on ventilators, the two of them.
They're being kept sedated."

The retreat began as scheduled Monday morning, Smith said, but would be
"abbreviated."

Police would not disclose Montano's alleged level of intoxication or discuss
other evidence.

Mosier, a native Pennsylvanian who entered the convent nearly a half-century ago
at age 18, was "a good and faithful servant of the Lord," Bishop Paul S.
Loverde, leader of the Catholic Diocese of Arlington, said in a statement. "This
tragedy, which comes allegedly as a result of a young man's drunk driving, was
avoidable.

"The sisters now live with the consequences of this behavior, as do countless
other families," Loverde said. "While we pray for the driver, let us also
recommit ourselves to eliminating this absolutely unacceptable behavior."

Montano, hospitalized with injuries authorities said were not life-threatening,
was charged with involuntary manslaughter, punishable by up to 10 years in
prison, and driving after an alcohol-related license revocation, which carries a
potential one-year term, Ebert said.

Montano was also charged with drunken driving, Ebert said. Because the charge is
Montano's third in less than five years, all in Prince William, it is punishable
by up to five years in prison, Ebert said.

Reading from a computer printout, Ebert recited a list of Montano's arrests or
citations -- under several names and Social Security numbers, he said -- for
reckless driving in 2006; speeding on two occasions in 2007; public drunkenness
in 2007; driving an uninspected vehicle in 2008; and three instances of driving
after a license revocation, in 2008, last year and in April.

Ebert said Montano was not sentenced to jail for any of the offenses, all but
one of which occurred in Northern Virginia.

The two cases that disturb him most, Ebert said, are Montano's drunken-driving
convictions in 2007 and 2008.

About 3:15 a.m. on July 7, 2007, according to court documents, a police officer
found Montano asleep behind the wheel of a car idling at a stop sign. After the
officer ordered him to step out, Montano "was extremely unsteady on his feet and
almost fell to the road," a police report says. It says Montano told the officer
he had consumed about eight beers.

Tests showed Montano's blood-alcohol level was 0.13 percent, well above the 0.08
percent legal limit for driving in Virginia, court records show. His license was
suspended after his conviction, but he was not sentenced to jail.

Just after 2 a.m. on Oct. 4, 2008, a police officer stopped Montano for driving
erratically, court documents show. He told the officer that he had consumed five
or six beers, a police report says. It says that a breath test given to Montano
90 minutes after his arrest found his blood-alcohol level to be 0.17 percent,
more than twice the legal limit.

In Virginia, a second drunken-driving conviction within five years is punishable
by up to a year in jail, and the defendant must serve at least 10 days. Montano
was given a 363-day sentence with all but 20 days suspended, records show.

Mosier, who grew up in the northwestern Pennsylvania town of Kane, entered the
convent after graduating from high school in the early 1960s and later received
a bachelor's degree in English, Smith said. She said Mosier taught in parochial
schools in Pennsylvania and Virginia and served as a missionary in Ethiopia and
Tanzania for eight years in the 1970s and '80s.

For about the past 12 years, Mosier's main role in the religious order was as a
spiritual counselor to groups and individuals.

"Denise was very special," said Smith. "She had a genuine love for all people. .
. . Very personable, very outgoing. Almost always happy and upbeat. She was one
of the most generous and forgiving people I've ever known."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sister Denise Mosier, far left, a former missionary in Africa,
was killed Sunday in a head-on crash in Prince William County. Sister Connie
Ruth Lupton, center, and Sister Charlotte Lange were critically injured.
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE; Carlos Montano, 23, is charged in the crash.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Virginia pursues residency checks;
McDonnell talks with U.S. officials Troopers would verify legal status of
stopped drivers

BYLINE: Anita Kumar, Carol Morello and Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1114 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


Virginia Gov. Robert F. McDonnell said Tuesday that he has spent months trying
to  reach an agreement with the federal government to train and deputize  state
troopers to act as immigration and customs agents to make legal status checks
and refer individuals for deportation.

McDonnell (R), a former state attorney general who has helped several
localities, including Prince William County, enter into similar agreements, said
he expects to make an announcement soon.

"We're working on that," he told reporters at a news conference outside the
state Capitol on Tuesday.

McDonnell's comments came a day after Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II issued
an opinion that authorizes police to ask anyone stopped for any reason about his
or her immigration status.

The governor said that he agreed with Cuccinelli's opinion, which is similar to
an opinion he issued in 2007, but that he lacked the legal authority to force
local police to act.

"I think local law enforcement officials have had the authority for a number of
years,'' McDonnell told reporters. "We believe our state and local officers have
the ability to make those inquiries . . . and turn them over for the appropriate
proceedings."

Del. Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince William), who requested Cuccinelli's legal
opinion and subsequently wrote to McDonnell to codify the language in the
opinion, said he hopes the ruling will give local governments the assurance that
they are on "firm constitutional ground" if they choose to request that their
law enforcement departments inquire about immigration more frequently.

"They could make this a priority," he said. "This is a determination that
elected officials have to make."

A 2008 Virginia law requires that jail officials check the immigration status of
everyone who has been arrested and taken into custody. Cuccinelli's opinion does
not require police to act, but it allows officers to check the status of those
who are arrested, whether or not they are jailed, and to inquire about the
immigration status of everyone who is stopped, including those pulled over for a
traffic violation or at a police checkpoint.

In a statement, Cuccinelli  insisted that his opinion "simply declares what is
existing law." Groups that have called for stricter enforcement of immigration
laws expressed hope that police departments throughout the state will start
routine immigration checks of motorists they stop. But an immigrant advocacy
group warned McDonnell in a letter late Tuesday that it would sue if he directed
law enforcement to investigate the immigration status of those who have been
stopped.

As public attention focused on Cuccinelli's opinion Tuesday, it remained unclear
whether the legal advisory would result in any practical change.

Dana G. Schrad, executive director of the Virginia Association of Chiefs of
Police, said Cuccinelli's opinion offered advice, not a mandate. Local policies
sometimes limit when police should ask about immigration. Some departments
advise their officers to avoid asking about immigration during criminal
investigations, which might discourage  victims or witnesses from cooperating.

"It was a clarification of where we are already," said Loudoun County Sheriff
Stephen O. Simpson. "It says we can ask questions under certain circumstances.
That's the way we've already been doing business."

Fairfax County will not have officers check immigration status during routine
traffic stops, said Mary Ann Jennings, a police spokeswoman, although it's
checked after an arrest.

"It doesn't say we should. It says we may; it says we can," she said. "Fairfax
County is not a sanctuary for illegal immigrants. But in terms of law
enforcement, it's vital to our success in the community to keep an open
dialogue. We feel asking about legal status at every traffic stop would drive
potential witnesses and crime victims away and destroy any relationship of trust
that we have now."

Arlington County police officers do not ask about citizenship status unless it's
relevant to solving a crime. Police do not arrest illegal immigrants for federal
immigration violations and report them to authorities only under certain
circumstances, including involvement in terrorism or gangs, conviction on a
felony, or an arrest on a violent-felony charge.

"Citizens living or traveling through Arlington should not be worried that our
actions will be changing," said Detective Crystal Nosal, a police spokeswoman.

In Prince William, police occasionally run the type of traffic-stop checks
Cuccinelli's opinion said they could. Typically, an officer would check when a
motorist can't provide identification, police spokeswoman Kim Chin said. More
often, only people who are arrested have their status checked.

"We aren't looking for it," Chin said. "If they don't provide ID, then we
check."

Twenty-six states, including Maryland and Arizona, and eight localities in
Virginia, including Herndon and Prince William and Loudoun counties, have the
so-called 287 (g) status that deputizes local law enforcement.

McDonnell's staff declined to release any documents on the state application
with the federal government. Richard Rocha, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, said he could not comment on pending applications.

"Since he was attorney general, the governor has supported securing 287 (g)
authority for Virginia State Police and has assisted local officials in Virginia
in their efforts to do the same,'' McDonnell spokesman Tucker Martin said. "The
administration has been in communication with federal immigration officials over
the past few months on several important initiatives to address the effects of
crime committed by those illegally present in the commonwealth. We will make any
official announcements on these efforts at the appropriate time."

The Virginia State Police has 1,800 sworn agents, but it's unclear whether it
would affect all agents.

On behalf of Prince William's police department and sheriff's department, Corey
A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Board of County Supervisors, sought and
received 287g status in 2007 and 2008. Since July 2007, officers' work has
helped lead to the deportations of nearly 3,000 people.

"Virginia's on a roll," he said. "Clearly, everyone is joining in the fray and
cracking down on illegal immigration. I really feel there is significant
momentum."

But Del. Scott A. Surovell (D-Mount Vernon) said the program will be a
distraction for state law enforcement.

"This is federal problem," said Surovell, who represents a district in which
nearly one-third of the residents are foreign-born. "Our state has enough
problems. We can't even get the medians mowed. I think we should concentrate on
core services."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Who makes the laws, anyway?

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 798 words


Last week, a draft memo surfaced from the Department of Homeland Security
suggesting ways to administratively circumvent existing law to allow several
categories of illegal immigrants to avoid deportation and, indeed, for some to
be granted permanent residency. Most disturbing was the stated rationale. This
was being proposed "in the absence of Comprehensive Immigration Reform." In
other words, because Congress refuses to do what these bureaucrats would like to
see done, they will legislate it themselves.

Regardless of your feelings on the substance of the immigration issue, this is
not how a constitutional democracy should operate. Administrators administer the
law, they don't change it. That's the legislators' job.

When questioned, the White House played down the toxic memo, leaving the
impression that it was nothing more than ruminations emanating from the bowels
of Homeland Security. But the administration is engaged in an even more
significant power play elsewhere.

A 2007 Supreme Court ruling gave the Environmental Protection Agency the
authority to regulate carbon emissions if it could demonstrate that they
threaten human health and the environment. The Obama EPA made precisely that
finding, thereby granting itself a huge expansion of power and, noted The Post,
sending "a message to Congress."

It was not a terribly subtle message: Enact cap-and-trade legislation -- taxing
and heavily regulating carbon-based energy -- or the EPA will do so
unilaterally. As Frank O'Donnell of Clean Air Watch noted, such a finding "is
likely to help light a fire under Congress to get moving."

Well, Congress didn't. Despite the "regulatory cudgel" (to again quote The Post)
the administration has been waving, the Senate has repeatedly refused to
acquiesce.

Good for the Senate. But what to do when the executive is passively aggressive
rather than actively so? Take border security. Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) reports
that President Obama told him about pressure from his political left and its
concern that if the border is secured, Republicans will have no incentive to
support comprehensive reform (i.e., amnesty). Indeed, Homeland Security's
abandonment of the "virtual fence" on the southern border, combined with its
lack of interest in completing the real fence that today covers only one-third
of the border, gives the distinct impression that serious border enforcement is
not a high administration priority absent some Republican quid pro quo on
comprehensive reform.

But border enforcement is not something to be manipulated in return for
legislative favors. It is, as the administration vociferously argued in court in
the Arizona case, the federal executive's constitutional responsibility. Its job
is to faithfully execute the laws. Non-execution is a dereliction of duty.

This contagion of executive willfulness is not confined to the federal
government or to Democrats. In Virginia, the Republican attorney general has
just issued a ruling allowing police to ask about one's immigration status when
stopped for some other reason (e.g., a traffic violation). Heretofore, police
could inquire only upon arrest and imprisonment.

Whatever your views about the result, the process is suspect. If police latitude
regarding the interrogation of possible illegal immigrants is to be expanded,
that's an issue for the legislature, not the executive.

How did we get here? I blame Henry Paulson. (Such a versatile sentence.) The
gold standard of executive overreach was achieved the day he summoned the heads
of the country's nine largest banks and informed them that henceforth the
federal government was their business partner. The banks were under no legal
obligation to obey. But they know the capacity of the federal government, when
crossed, to cause you trouble, endless trouble. They complied.

So did BP when the president summoned its top executives to the White House to
demand a $20 billion federally administered escrow fund for damages. Existing
law capped damages at $75 million. BP, like the banks, understood the power of
the U.S. government. Twenty billion it was.

Again, you can be pleased with the result (I was) and still be troubled by how
we got there. Everyone wants energy in the executive (as Alexander Hamilton
called it). But not lawlessness. In the modern welfare state, government has the
power to regulate your life. That's bad enough. But at least there is one
restraint on this bloated power: the separation of powers. Such constraints on
your life must first be approved by both houses of Congress.

That's called the consent of the governed. The constitutional order is meant to
subject you to the will of the people's representatives, not to the whim of a
chief executive or the imagination of a loophole-seeking bureaucrat.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration opinion was a matter of duty, not grandstanding

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 302 words


The Aug. 10 editorial "Mr. Cuccinelli chimes in" accused me of "grandstanding
about immigration matters that require no clarification."

When a Virginia legislator asks for my office's official opinion on a matter of
law, I answer it. I am obliged as attorney general to do so. I do not choose the
timing of a request as it relates to court rulings in Arizona or crimes
committed by illegal aliens in Virginia. The fact that there was a request would
seem to indicate that there was a need for clarification.

Additionally, contrary to what the editorial said, my office did not call a news
conference to discuss the opinion. We held a news conference to discuss our
health-care lawsuit. The only reason we answered immigration questions that day
is because a Washington Post reporter asked one at that news conference.

I also repeatedly stated in interviews with news outlets that this was not a
groundbreaking opinion. I even sent a statement indicating such to The Post last
week. The opinion was merely an explanation of the law as it stands, based on
the law as written, as well as on previous relevant court decisions.

The editorial misled readers by stating that "state and local law enforcement
officers should not be in the business of rounding up foreign-looking or
foreign-sounding individuals to check on immigration status in the absence of a
criminal violation."

This is not a new stop power for police, and our opinion clearly advises against
arresting people for simple civil infractions rather than criminal violations.
We also state that when police perform a lawful traffic stop, they can ask about
immigration status so long as that does not prolong the length of the stop. Even
the U.S. Supreme Court has said that this is permissible.

Ken Cuccinelli, Richmond

The writer is attorney general of Virginia.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 16, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Ethiopians finding a space for success;
Parking lot mogul embodies dreams of D.C. area community's entrepreneurial young
immigrants

BYLINE: Derek Kravitz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1425 words


Ask any of the thousands of Ethiopian immigrants working as parking attendants
or cabbies around Washington whom they aspire to be like, and you'll probably
hear about Henok Tesfaye.

Tesfaye, 37, started as a parking valet in downtown Washington two decades ago,
saving a few hundred dollars each month to pay for business classes and start
his company. Today, his U Street Parking (named after his first parking lot, at
12th and U streets NW) ranks among the biggest parking companies in the region.

His success is part of a wave of accomplishment by Ethiopians, who began
settling in Washington after fleeing violence in their native country in the
1970s. Tesfaye's 12-year ascent in Washington's notoriously cutthroat parking
industry is especially notable because it was so unlikely.

Parking is not an easy business. It's marked by high volume, long hours and low
margins. For Tesfaye, the years of 16-hour days and endless financial pressures
culminated in a phone call in December. A year after partnering with a Los
Angeles-based parking giant, Tesfaye won a lucrative contract to oversee 37,000
public parking spaces at Dulles International and Reagan National airports,
including four garages, three surface lots and a valet service.

"When I got the call that we had got the contract, I cried," said Tesfaye, from
his office in a rowhouse on Rhode Island Avenue NE. "We were a long shot. We've
always been a long shot."

U Street's 25 percent share of the nearly $1.3 million in annual management and
incentive fees from the airport contracts, which started this summer, could net
the company millions over the next five years, along with increased visibility
and other clients.

Tesfaye had become the Ethiopian version of the American Dream.

"He's the leading young entrepreneur in our community. . . . I know him from
when he was a parking attendant, and it's great to see these types of businesses
grow," said Dereje Desta, the publisher of Zethiopia, an Ethiopian newspaper in
the District.

The Washington area's Ethiopian community is the largest in the nation.
According to Census Bureau data, about 30,000 Ethiopian immigrants -- about
one-fifth of those in the United States -- live in the region. But the local
figure has a history of being underreported and probably tops 100,000, according
to the Ethiopian American Constituency Foundation and the Ethiopian Community
Development Council.

Ethiopians came in droves after a bloody military coup in 1974, and they worked
in low-paying first jobs as cabbies and cooks and parking attendants. But they
have begun to stake their claims. Tesfaye's company now employs 100 people,
including many immigrants from Ethiopia and Mauritania.

Open for business

Ethiopian businesses have sprung up across the Washington area. A new crop has
appeared in the Skyline section of Falls Church, and restaurants and coffee
shops are opening across Shaw, especially along Ninth Street NW, known
informally as "Little Ethiopia." (Five years ago, an attempt to get a formal
designation from the city failed.)

"We've grown, and now we've really begun to make a name for ourselves, in the
business sense," said Tamrat Medhin, a financial adviser at Access Capital, a
Falls Church real estate investment firm that has poured millions into luxury
properties in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia.

Other Ethiopian success stories include Abebe "Abe" Abraham, the founder of CMI
Management in Alexandria, which has landed millions of dollars' worth of
government maintenance and other contracts since it was started in 1989;
restaurateur Zed Wondemu, who started Zed's restaurant in Georgetown and has
since expanded into Virginia; and the Ethiopian-born doctors at Blue Nile
Medical Center in Alexandria.

It's a younger generation of Ethiopians, however, that is making the biggest
strides, community members say. Hailu Fulass Hailu, a professor of linguistics
at the University of the District of Columbia who left Ethiopia in 1977 and
arrived in the District two years later, said many hardworking Ethiopians
younger than 40 "are quite adventurous, and many have turned that into being
quite successful."

Many of Hailu's generation came to the United States on education visas and
scholarships, he said. "I find it remarkable because the success we have now is
not about education," he said. "It's about risk."

The Ethiopian Community Development Council, based in Arlington County, has
stimulated business growth by granting micro-loans to entrepreneurs such as
Tesfaye. Recent clients include the owners of a gas station and a salon in
Northern Virginia, who have expanded and hired dozens of other immigrants.

"With more and more people coming, there's a greater diversity with the types of
businesses we're getting and the types of Africans, especially with the young,"
said Tsehaye Teferra, the council's president.

A chance to expand

Tesfaye's start is reminiscent of the modest beginnings of some of his
parking-lot predecessors. One of the local industry giants, Colonial Parking,
was started by two young George Washington University graduates on a tiny lot at
25th and E streets NW in the early 1950s. All-day parking cost 30 cents.

In 1998, Tesfaye, then working as a parking valet in downtown Washington, was
exhausted and struggling to pay his bills. He was 24 and, as he puts it,
"clueless about the world. It was difficult."

After years of saving, Tesfaye took a gamble on a rough-and-tumble stretch of U
Street NW, renting an $800-a-month, 20-car lot at 12th and U streets.

Problem was, people thought it was too dangerous to park there. "I would get out
on the street and wave people in, but no one would come," Tesfaye said.

But as the revitalized U Street corridor slowly grew, so, too, did Tesfaye's
business. The parking lot expanded to include a used-car lot. Valet service was
added at a few nearby restaurants and bars. Tesfaye's three brothers immigrated
to the United States to join the rapidly growing family business. Tesfaye took
out a $35,000 loan from the Ethiopian Community Development Council, and his
company took over management of the 1,200-car parking lot on the site of the old
Washington Convention Center.

By the mid-2000s, Tesfaye was a success story. He has held fundraisers for the
mayor and bought a home in Alexandria. He even bought his mother a restaurant
along U Street and named it Etete, her Amharic nickname.

L&R Group, which oversees parking at the New York  area's three international
airports and at Oakland International Airport in California, reached out to
Tesfaye in late 2008. The company wanted to bolster its presence in the
Washington area to compete for the Dulles and National contracts.

Scott Hutchison, a senior vice president at L&R Group, said Tesfaye's back story
was a draw, and he compared U Street Parking to profitable parking firms started
by Ethiopian immigrants in San Francisco, where L&R subsidiary Five Star Parking
has contracts.

"I heard Henok's story and I knew he was the right one," Hutchison said. "It was
impressive. And I know I could be competing against him within the next 10
years."

The partnership formed, Hutchison and Tesfaye moved to develop a strong business
plan for the airports contract, which is chosen through a sealed-bid process by
the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. The trick to beating the
incumbents, Hutchison and Tesfaye said, was to keep the management fees low.

The Five Star-U Street management-fee quote for National was about $160,000 a
year less than the previous contractor's. For Dulles, the quote was about
$585,000 a year less. Among four finalists, the firm received the worst score
for its operations, management, customer service and personnel plans. But the
low management fees essentially won the contracts, Hutchison and Tesfaye said.

Airports officials said that the scores were close and that they expect
customers not to notice much different in parking operations.

The companies that U Street replaced -- AeroLink Parking in Falls Church and
District of Columbia Parking Associates -- had to lay off hundreds of workers
this year, but the vast majority were hired by Tesfaye's group, airport
officials said.

Tesfaye said he is not resting. The big fish, he said, is managing a parking
garage for a high-rise office building.

"That's where the real money is, but it's very tough," Tesfaye said, as his
brother Yared, 31, nodded in agreement. "We want to be a big player."

Just in case, Tesfaye said, he has a fallback plan: He keeps a valet parking
attendant's red jacket in the back seat of his car.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Dayna Smith For The Washington Post; Yared, left, and Henok
Tesfaye at one of the Reagan National Airport parking garages their company, U
Street Parking, runs. "When I got the call that we had got the contract, I
cried," Henok Tesfaye said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Adapting old customs to a new land;
Rising business caters to Muslim immigrants seeking to fulfill ritual animal
sacrifices

BYLINE: Kevin Sieff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1226 words


In a barn in Mount Airy, Ali Manguera pinned a 69-pound goat to the concrete
floor, pointed the animal's head toward Mecca -- some 7,000 miles east of this
rural Maryland farm -- and slit its throat in a single, expert motion.

Manguera knows this process well. Following a centuries-old tradition, he has
been slaughtering his own animals for Muslim holidays since his childhood in
Somalia.

But like thousands of Muslim immigrants in the Washington area, Manguera has
been forced to adapt old practices to a new land -- a country where state and
federal regulations, as well as cultural barriers, complicate the booming
business of ritual animal sacrifice and slaughter.

As Ramadan approached last week, Muslim immigrants preparing for their
pre-holiday feast sacrificed goats in halal slaughterhouses -- those that
conform to Islamic law -- family farms and their garages.

In Mount Airy, Manguera removed the skin and intestines from the animal,
draining the entrails into a yellow bucket. The process is slow and deliberate,
requiring precision and spurts of brute force. An extra pair of hands would have
helped, but farmer Brian Schiner and his managers looked on, unable to assist
Manguera.

If any of the farm's employees had so much as touched the goat, they might have
been in violation of the federal Meat Inspection Act. In the "on-farm slaughter"
business, the law requires that customers buy the animal alive and kill it
without help from the farmer.

"This could be so much easier," Schiner said. "But we don't want to break the
law."

This budding sub-sector of the meat industry caters to Muslims who want to
follow their faith's rules -- to be certain that the animal has been slaughtered
humanely with a knife to the throat, that the animal is pointed toward Mecca and
that it dies as the slaughterer recites a prayer.

Since the 1980s, the number of goats slaughtered for their meat has more than
quintupled, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department. Many of those goats
are killed not in mass slaughterhouses but in quiet ceremonies on farms and in
back yards.

It's a niche market that Schiner discovered accidentally. Not long after Schiner
opened Wagon Wheel Ranch in 2004, a man called him to purchase a goat. "Do you
mind if I kill the animal myself?" he asked Schiner, a self-proclaimed "Maryland
boy" who has a tattoo of the state flag on his left shoulder.

"I wasn't expecting that request," Schiner recalled. "But sure, I thought, why
not?" As Schiner nervously averted his eyes from that first killing, the ranch's
do-it-yourself slaughter business was born.

Since then, Schiner has become something of an expert on religious and ethnic
slaughter rituals, adapting his business to serve a foreign-born clientele. He
watched Ghanaians light lambs on fire after killing them and then bought a
flamethrower for his farm.

After seeing some customers saving goats' livers and heads, he started to supply
plastic bags.

And after observing an elderly Greek man cut a hole in a goat's leg and breathe
air into the carcass to separate the skin from the meat, Schiner equipped his
farm with an air hose.

During Eid al-Adha, the annual Festival of the Sacrifice, the line at Schiner's
farm stretches several hours long, including Muslims from four continents.
Muslims slaughter animals at that time to recall the trial that Ibrahim faced
when God commanded that he kill his son as a sacrifice.

Other farms have shied away from such rituals. "Some farmers have no interest in
catering to people who don't look like them," said Susan Schoenian, a sheep and
goat specialist at the Western Maryland Research and Education Center.

Three years ago, when Sandra Miller, who sells goat at D.C. farmers markets,
advertised her on-farm slaughter services in Carlisle, Pa., she was approached
by men from a nearby American Legion post. "You're a terrorist," she recalled
them saying. "Why are you catering to those damn Muslims?"

Goat slaughter, she learned, has become an unlikely subject of a post-Sept. 11
culture clash. Miller has scaled down her on-farm slaughter operations.

Schiner, by contrast, renovated a corner of his barn for ritual slaughter, with
a drain for the animals' blood. On the wall, he hung a poster with instructions
on the process. But sometimes, when inexperienced slaughterers show up, printed
instructions are insufficient.

"Sometimes people show up who have no idea what they're doing," Schiner said.
"They usually wait for someone with experience." Occasionally, they try to
muscle through the slaughter themselves, as Schiner looks on, pained.

Bathtub butchery

To avoid the messy nature of on-farm slaughter, many customers take home live
animals and slaughter them in residential bathtubs and garages. "We hold the
animal on the garage floor and make sure the blood goes into the drain or the
bushes," said Waqar Farhat, who grew up slaughtering animals in the hallway of
his home in Pakistan.

Some of Farhat's friends slaughter goats in their showers. "But they clean up
very well afterwards," he said.

Still, when non-Muslim neighbors discover these makeshift slaughterhouses in
their midst, reactions can be sharp. In Prince William County a few years ago,
when residents reported that ritual slaughter attracted a flock of vultures to
their Haymarket neighborhood, authorities cracked down on the practice.

Customers slaughter their own animals in part to be certain that the killing
follows Islamic law. "If we don't do the sacrifice ourselves, how do we know the
meat is really halal?" Farhat said. He used to sacrifice animals at a
slaughterhouse in Prince William before discovering that the owners slaughtered
pigs with the same equipment -- a fundamental infraction of Islamic law, which
prohibits eating pork.

After several cases involving mislabeled halal goods, Virginia is considering
legislation that would make selling halal knockoffs a misdemeanor punishable by
fines.

This year, Farhat went to Lambco, a new slaughterhouse in New Windsor, Md., that
caters largely to Muslims. He picked out a white boar goat from Lambco's pen.
Slaughterhouse owner Joe Cavanaugh handed him a knife. Then Lambco assistant
Frankie Williams carried the squirming goat inside, and Farhat pinned it under
his knee in the pristine, almost clinical, room.

"Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar, Allahu akbar," he whispered, the words of the
Takbir prayer. "Allah is the greatest."

Modern but traditional

In the booming ethnic slaughter industry, Lambco is a place where modern and
traditional meet. Upscale retailers from Washington use the facility to
slaughter lambs and goats using a Western technique: stunning animals with a
captive bolt gun before they're slaughtered.

But when the retailers leave, Lambco becomes the stage for sacrifice and
slaughter rituals from around the world -- practices the federal government
exempted from the Humane Slaughter Act in 1958 at the request of immigrants.

"As long as it's humane, we allow the customer to do whatever their tradition
and religion dictate," Cavanaugh said, bending down to pick up a piece of goat
intestine. "We just clean up afterwards."

After the goat was slaughtered and butchered, Farhat's son, Ali, 14, carried the
meat to the family's minivan.

"It's been a good day," Syed Farhat said, walking away from the slaughterhouse.
"We know for sure that this meat is halal. We know that this was done right."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Kevin Sieff/the Washington Post; The goats at the
Wagon Wheel Ranch in Mount Airy, Md., are kept in a holding area before being
slaughtered for holidays or other rituals.
IMAGE; A lamb is prepared for slaughter at Lambco, a new slaughterhouse in New
Windsor, Md., that caters largely to Muslims.
IMAGE; Kevin Sieff/the Washington Post; Frankie Williams of Lambco carries a
lamb to the slaughterhouse, which is used by upscale retailers as well as for
ritual sacrifices.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Celebrating a century of service;
Hebrew Home of Greater Washington provides compassion, care for the elderly

BYLINE: Michael E. Ruane

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 878 words


One day in 1910, the story goes, a young Jewish immigrant named Hymen Goldman,
who had come to America only four years before, happened upon an elderly and
bearded man sitting on a bread box outside a North Capitol Street grocery store,
weeping.

The old man was a homeless Jewish widower. Goldman, 22, was born in Russia and
had arrived in Washington with 20 cents in his pockets. But he was moved by the
old man's plight. "It was pitiful to see a man with a long white beard sitting
and crying," he later wrote.

Goldman spoke to his father-in-law, who summoned Jewish civic leaders, who
launched a drive for nickels and dimes to board the man in a widow's rooming
house on M Street for $3 a week.

Thus was born, amid the grit and compassion of harsh immigrant life a century
ago, the venerable Hebrew Home of Greater Washington.

Now part of the Charles E. Smith Life Communities, on a modern 30-acre campus in
Rockville, the Hebrew Home this year celebrates a kaleidoscopic century of
caring for the elderly. Along its halls, at three main locations over the years,
have walked residents whose lives seem fresh from the pages of American
immigration history.

There lived Sadie Hershey, another immigrant from Russia, who as young woman
survived the March 25, 1911, Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire -- a blaze in a
New York garment factory that killed 146 workers and is thought to be the worst
New York workplace disaster before Sept. 11, 2001.

There, in more recent years, lived Mikhail Surikov, a Soviet artillery commander
during World War II who participated in the liberation of Budapest, Prague and
Berlin from the Nazis, and who was present in 1945 for the famous meeting of
U.S. and Soviet troops on the Elbe River in Germany near the end of the war.

There in the 1970s lived Alfred Klein, who came to the United States in 1898
speaking Yiddish from what is now Belarus. He hawked newspapers as boy in New
York, and went on to become the chief law officer of the U.S. Civil Service
Commission.

There at the home have lived a former teenage cloth presser -- "the iron weighed
more than I did," he recalled in a memoir -- union organizers, tailors,
newspaper writers, lawyers, doctors, social workers, rabbis, soldiers,
housewives, economists and others. There today live a handful of survivors of
the Holocaust.

"What prompted all the Jewish people to come to America?" Klein once wrote. "It
was still a new country and it was still the country of promise."

But it could be a tough and alien place for often-penniless, Yiddish-speaking
emigrants from remote European villages, especially if they were elderly.

"What you were dealing with in 1910 was, there was this whole wave of Jewish
emigration  from Eastern Europe around the turn of the century," said Marilyn
Feldman, a spokeswoman for the home, who serves as its historian.

Memoirs of residents, who often fled oppression, pogroms and Russian army
recruiting gangs, recall harrowing sea voyages, disorientation in American
cities, and the kindness of other Jewish immigrants.

Still, Feldman said, "people who maybe came over to the United States but didn't
have any kind of family support network . . . could find themselves elderly,
alone and in need of support, and there was no place to turn."

The action of Goldman, who later became a Washington business executive and
Jewish community leader, was but a stopgap.

The community supported its elderly in boarding houses for a few years, Feldman
said, before acquiring a three-story brick townhouse in 1914 at 415 M Street NW
as the first "Hebrew Home for the Aged."

The $10,000 home, which could accommodate 50 residents, opened amid fanfare. A
chorus sang, and a soloist performed "Forsake us Not in Our Old Age," according
to a newspaper account.

"At first there was no staff," Feldman said. "It was just a place for people to
live. Then there was a matron, and things grew from there."

In 1925, the home moved to a large building at 1125 Spring Road NW, then moved
to Rockville in 1969. Today, with more than 550 beds, it is the largest nursing
home in the mid-Atlantic region, Feldman said.

"From humble beginnings back on M Street, we've grown to a large and complex
elder-care organization," said Warren R. Slavin, president and chief executive
officer of the Smith Life Communities. "It's difficult to go anywhere in the
community and not find somebody whose relatives, whose parents, grandparents,
aunts, uncles, brothers or sisters, we haven't served."

"There was a sense back then . . . that continues to exist today, that we have
an obligation to care for vulnerable members of the community and to take care
of our own," Slavin said. "You couldn't count on government. There were no such
programs. You had to rely on each other. There was a real feeling of communal
responsibility. Those who had resources shared them with others."

The late Ben Sperling came to the Hebrew Home as an old man after a hard life
that began in Lithuania, took him to Ellis Island, a pushcart in the city and
then to years in the grocery business.

Before he died in 1978, he said he had discovered painting and was delighted
with his new life in the home.

"It's foolish not to like it," he said. "Here you've got everything.

"It is a 'ganaydn,' " he said, using Yiddish, "a paradise."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Susan Biddle For The Washington Post; Lorena Skelton, left, with
residents in the physical therapy room of the Hebrew Home, which is celebrating
its 100th anniversary this year.
IMAGE; Susan Biddle For The Washington Post; Sophie Lax, 98, lives in the newest
location of the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington.
IMAGE; Courtesy Of Hebrew Home Of Greater Washington; Early residents of the
Hebrew Home discuss the Talmud in February 1931, when the home was situated on
Spring Road in the District.
IMAGE; Top: Susan Biddle For The Washington Post; Bottom Photos Courtesy Of
Hebrew Home Of Greater Washington; Warren R. Slavin, left, president of the
group that runs the home, chats with resident Morris Weisz, 96.
IMAGE; The Hebrew Home of Greater Washington at its first location on M Street,
circa 1914.
IMAGE; A group at the home's Spring Road location weaves baskets in 1933.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Virginia Politics;
Excerpts from voices.washingtonpost.com/virginiapolitics

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 650 words

Connolly, Wolf, Wittman back ICE request for state police

 Three Virginia congressmen, including Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-Va.), are
urging Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to grant Gov. Robert F.
McDonnell's request to allow state troopers to act as immigration and customs
agents.

In a letter to Napolitano dated Wednesday, Republicans Frank R. Wolf and Robert
J. Wittman and Connolly, who has pushed to fund the so-called 287g program in
Congress, wrote of their support: "This proposed partnership between the
Department of Homeland Security and the Commonwealth of Virginia will improve
information sharing, leverage federal and state resources, and above all,
contribute to improved public safety."

McDonnell (R) has spent months trying to reach an agreement with the federal
government to train and deputize troopers to make legal-status checks and refer
individuals for deportation. The superintendent of the Virginia State Police,
the Virginia secretary of public safety and McDonnell's chief of staff have met
with federal officials. Recently, McDonnell sent a formal letter to Napolitano.

McDonnell, a former state attorney general, helped several localities, including
Prince William County, enter into similar agreements. He also repeatedly pressed
former governor Timothy M. Kaine (D) to ask the Bush administration to enter
into agreement with Virginia, but Kaine refused, saying immigration should be
addressed by the federal government.

The Obama administration has declined in the past to issue 287g agreements to
some states. "The Obama administration has a very different view from the Bush
administration,'' McDonnell said recently.

Richard Rocha, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, has
said he could not comment on pending applications.

Twenty-six states, including Maryland and Arizona, and nine local law
enforcement agencies in Virginia, including in Herndon and in Prince William and
Loudoun counties, have the 287g status that deputizes local law enforcement.

Virginia State Police have 1,800 sworn agents. It's unclear how many would be
deputized for immigration work.

-- Anita Kumar

McDonnell picks Loudoun lawyer as deputy counselor

Two well-known Republican activists were named deputy counselors to Gov. Robert
F. McDonnell (R) on Friday. The announcements came in a batch of appointments to
boards and commissions announced by McDonnell.

The first, land-use lawyer J. Randall Minchew, has been the managing partner of
Walsh, Colucci, Lubeley, Emrich and Walsh in Loudoun County since 1998.

He's a very familiar name in Loudoun County because of his work in politics and
business. He's been the president of the Loudoun Bar Association, chairman of
the Loudoun County Economic Development Commission and board member of the
Loudoun Chamber of Commerce.

He's also the former chairman of the Loudoun County Republican Committee and ran
to succeed former state senator William C. Mims (R) in 2006. The position was
vacated when Mims became McDonnell's deputy attorney general. Minchew failed to
win the Republican nomination for the Senate, and ultimately the seat was won by
Democrat Mark R. Herring.

McDonnell also named Jeffrey S. Palmore a deputy counselor. Palmore has a long
history in Virginia politics, working on McDonnell's 2009 campaign for governor,
as well as former attorney general Jerry Kilgore's failed bid for governor in
2005. He was then-Rep. Thelma Drake's campaign manager in 2004.

Interestingly, Palmore has most recently served as a law clerk to federal
district court Judge Henry Hudson. He's the judge currently hearing Virginia's
lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the federal health-care law.

McDonnell also made a variety of appointments to commissions and college boards
of visitors, including reappointing Democratic Norfolk Mayor Paul Fraim to the
Virginia Military Institute board.

-- Rosalind Helderman

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Across Somalia's border, an incubator for jihad;
Influenced by al-Qaeda-linked militia, schools and mosques in Nairobi immigrant
neighborhood spread extremist message

BYLINE: Sudarsan Raghavan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1172 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI


Behind the blue gates of his Islamic school in Nairobi's Eastleigh neighborhood,
Ahmed Awil cannot escape his country's civil war.

Schools and mosques where extremist views are taught are reshaping this Somali
immigrant community that for years has lived peacefully in the capital of this
predominantly Christian country. Moderate imams now compete with hard-line
preachers pushing a strict interpretation of Islam. Bookstores sell anti-Western
literature. Residents speak fearfully of militant spies, and children like Ahmed
are taught to praise al-Shabab, an al-Qaeda-linked militia, for waging jihad in
Somalia against the U.S.-backed government.

"My teachers tell us al-Shabab is fighting for our religion and for our
country," said Ahmed, a skinny 11-year-old who fled Somalia after al-Shabab
fighters slaughtered his neighbor and tried to recruit him. "Sometimes they ask
us if we would like to go there and fight."

Eastleigh, a run-down enclave  where tens of thousands of Somalis live, has
become an incubator for Islamic extremism, Kenyan officials and community
leaders say. It has also emerged as a micro-battlefield in the war on terrorism,
attracting American funds.

"What most worries me is that this extremist ideology will continue to grow,"
said Dualle Abdi Malik, the director of Fathu Rahman, a moderate Islamic school.
"We have to confront it before it is too late."

Somali immigrant communities across the Horn of Africa and Yemen have come under
greater scrutiny since twin bombings last month targeted World Cup soccer fans
in the Ugandan capital of Kampala. Al-Shabab asserted responsibility for the
attacks, its first major international operation since it rose to power several
years ago in Somalia.

Members of al-Shabab, which in Arabic means "The Youth," and other Somali
militants freely travel to Nairobi to raise funds, recruit and treat wounded
fighters, according to U.N. and Kenyan security officials. Somali-American
jihadists have met contacts in Eastleigh before heading to Somalia to fight with
al-Shabab.

"Eastleigh is a copy of Mogadishu," said Mohamed Omar Dalha, Somalia's social
affairs minister, referring to the Somali capital. "Everything that happens in
Mogadishu happens in Eastleigh, except the fighting."

Fertile ground for radicals

At the al-Huda Islamic bookshop, a closet-sized stall nestled near one of
Eastleigh's radical mosques, several youths browsed the fare on a recent day.
Koranic tomes pack the shelves. Recordings of lectures and debates that glorify
the neighborhood's radical Somali preachers are sold openly.

"Our religion calls on us to kill everyone who does not believe in Allah and his
Prophet Muhammed deeply," Abdulrahman Abdullahi, a black-clad imam, declares in
one DVD.

Al-Shabab has long threatened to attack Kenya, which has been targeted by
extremists over the years. In 1998, al-Qaeda operatives bombed the U.S.
embassies in Nairobi and in Tanzania; in 2002, an Israeli-owned hotel in Mombasa
was bombed. Earlier this year, protests erupted in downtown Nairobi over the
arrest of a radical Islamic preacher from Jamaica.

Eastleigh, community leaders say, is an ideal breeding ground for radicalism.
The neighborhood is poor and isolated;  few Kenyans enter it. Local authorities
have ignored it: Roads are unpaved, muddy and covered with trash. The smell of
raw sewage wafts across the terrain.

Kenyan police have long harassed Somalis, demanding bribes under threat of
arrest or deportation, generating resentment. Since the Kampala attacks, police
have rounded up hundreds of people in Eastleigh and other areas, including four
Kenyan Muslims who human rights activists say were illegally extradited to
Uganda for interrogation.

"The community is suffering," said Abdufatah Ali, an Eastleigh representative on
the Nairobi City Council. "The police stop you and take your phone, and say 'You
are al-Shabab.' They enter your house and rape you, and say 'You are al-Shabab.'
"

Radical preachers are filling the void, playing a key role in recruiting and
fundraising for al-Shabab. They operate the largest mosques in the neighborhood,
providing ideological leadership and a resource base for militants, according to
a U.N. report on Somalia in April.

"They have a very big influence in terms of radicalization," said Nicholas
Kamwende, Kenya's anti-terrorism police chief. "Eastleigh provides the best
grounds for recruitment."

Influencing young minds

At the Ansaaru primary school, where Awil attends classes, boys and girls study
biology, chemistry and geography. In religion class, they are taught that it is
every Muslim's duty to "liberate" Jerusalem and its sacred al-Aqsa mosque, Awil
and three other students said.

Sometimes, the students said, the teachers show  them video clips of jihadists
fighting in Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia.

"They tell us that al-Shabab hates Western countries like America," said Zakeria
Omar, 11, a student. "And that it is  all right to cut the throats of every
citizen of these countries."

Ali Jama'a, a Koranic teacher at the school,  asserted that the teachers do not
discuss jihad or al-Shabab. "Those classes may happen in the mosques, but not
here," Jama'a said.

Moments later, the imam of al-Hidaya mosque, which U.N. investigators and
community leaders describe as among the most radical in Eastleigh,  arrived at
the school. He was there to teach a class.

He declined to be interviewed by a Washington Post journalist.

Moderate clerics fear what will happen to their community. One well-known imam
tells young people not to be enticed by militancy and speaks out against suicide
bombings as un-Islamic. "We have a war on our hands to stop our youth from being
taken to the battlefield," said the imam, who asked that his name not be
published because he had been threatened.

Moderates raise voices

Shine Abdullahi's hip-hop group, Waayaha Cusub, or "The New Generation," is
fighting back. The artists -- both men and women, all Somalis, most of whom once
lived in Eastleigh -- released a CD in February with the help of  funding from
the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi.

This year, the United States has allocated $96,000 for job creation, education
and tolerance programs, mostly directed at youth, to bolster moderate views of
Islam in Eastleigh.

Waayaha Cusub's song "No to al-Shabab" has become a hit in Somali communities,
including those in Minnesota, Ohio and Virginia. The group has handed out 7,000
free copies in Eastleigh.

"Our goal is to show that al-Shabab has neither a Somali nor an Islamic agenda,"
Abdullahi said. "They are nothing but a militia run by al-Qaeda's chiefs."

In June, Abdullahi received the first of many death threats in the form of a
text message from a Kenyan cellphone number: "You work with the infidels and
Americans. You are a spy for them. Do you want to stop that work or do you want
to die?"

Today, the group does not play large shows, fearing an attack by suicide
bombers. None of the members live in their old neighborhood anymore.

"It's very easy for them to kill us in Eastleigh," Abdullahi said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sudarsan Raghavan/the Washington Post; Worshipers gathered at
Eastleigh's Masjid Sahabi mosque, where clerics preach a moderate message. Imams
at other neighborhood mosques, however, have become increasingly radicalized,
praising and recruiting supporters for Somalia's al-Shabab militia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Man in crash that killed nun had ICE work card;
Pr. William chief says agency issued permit amid deportation case

BYLINE: Martin Weil

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 406 words


The allegedly drunk driver charged in the collision death of a nun received a
federal permit to work in this country while efforts to deport him were
underway, the Prince William County police chief said Friday.

Chief Charlie T. Deane wrote to the head of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement about the case of Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, 23, whose car
swerved last month into the path of a vehicle carrying three nuns en route to a
retreat. One nun died, and two were critically injured.

In a letter dated Aug. 30 and released Friday, Deane said he wanted "to
officially express my concerns" about a policy that  allows employment
authorization cards to be issued to illegal aliens in deportation proceedings.

He asked ICE chief John T. Morton, an assistant secretary in the Department of
Homeland Security, that "this glaring gap in DHS policy be ended."

Martinelly-Montano's case became a rallying point for advocates of stiffer
immigration enforcement after the collision. He told police that he didn't
remember the crash, according to the arrest warrant. County Commonwealth's
Attorney Paul Ebert said he intends to ask a grand jury to return a
second-degree murder indictment in the crash, in which Sister Denise Mosier, 66,
died.

Martinelly-Montano entered the United States illegally at age 8 with his parents
and sister, and he had been awaiting a deportation hearing after two convictions
for drunken driving, in 2007 and 2008.

While Martinelly-Montano was jailed in connection with the second DUI case in
October of 2008, Deane wrote, ICE was notified "of his illegal presence," and an
immigration detainer was issued. However, Deane wrote, Martinelly-Montano was
given the work card Jan. 14, 2009. He used the card to obtain a valid Virginia
ID card, Deane said.

Deane  said Martinelly-Montano used a previously issued employment card to
obtain a driver's license. An employment  card is not a green card, which
indicates permanent legal residence.

Matt Chandler, a spokesman for DHS, said, "In July, Secretary [Janet] Napolitano
ordered an immediate review into the circumstances leading to this individual
being released in 2008." That investigation continues.

Chandler added, "In the past 18 months, this administration has fundamentally
reformed immigration enforcement, using our resources to focus on identifying
and removing criminal aliens who pose a threat to public safety -- removing
record numbers of criminal aliens."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: 04 September, 2010



CORRECTION: A headline on a Sept. 4 article suggested incorrectly that U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement issued an employment authorization card to
Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, who is charged in the  crash that killed a nun in
Prince William County early last month. The card was issued to
Martinelly-Montano, who had two  previous drunken driving convictions, after
efforts to deport him were underway. Prince William Police Chief Charlie T.
Deane  wrote to the head of ICE about the card, but the card was issued by U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, another agency of  the Department of
Homeland Security.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 101 words


A headline on a Sept. 4 article suggested incorrectly that U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement issued an employment authorization card to Carlos A.
Martinelly-Montano, who is charged in the crash that killed a nun in Prince
William County early last month. The card was issued to Martinelly-Montano, who
had two previous drunken-driving convictions, after efforts to deport him were
underway. Prince William Police Chief Charlie T. Deane wrote to the head of ICE
about the card, but the card was issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, another agency of the Department of Homeland Security.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

ARTS BRIEFS

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. E07

LENGTH: 377 words

'9500 Liberty'

 The documentary "9500 Liberty," which explores facets of the fierce immigration
debate in Prince William County in 2007 and 2008, will be presented with a panel
discussion on Wednesday, Sept. 15, from 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in the Unitarian
Universalist Church of Arlington's Fellowship Hall, 4444 Arlington Blvd.

The panelists will include Walter Tejada, Arlington County Board member. Annabel
Park, who directed the film with Eric Byler, also will attend the screening.

The film grew out of serial YouTube videos that Byler and Park started posting
as county officials and residents wrestled with how the community should respond
to an influx of people from Central America and Mexico. The title refers to an
address at the corner of Liberty and Prince William streets where pro-immigrant
slogans were posted on a wall and billboards.

There is a $10 suggested donation to attend the event, which is part of the
church's year-long focus on immigration. Donations will support the church's
participation in civic and social justice work in Northern Virginia. Advance
copies of the DVD will be for sale for a $20 donation to the filmmakers'
nonprofit, the Interactive Democracy Alliance.

-- David Montgomery

Weekend of 100 tours

Cultural Tourism D.C., a coalition of 230 organizations, will hold 100 walking
tours and 11 bike tours Sept. 25 and 26. The tours will include a bike ride
through the District's rock-and-roll sites, including the original 9:30 Club and
the dilapidated Washington Coliseum, where the Beatles playe their first live
U.S. concert; and a walk of suffragist burial plots at congressional cemeteries.

Cultural Tourism D.C.'s walks and rides last May attracted 4,000 participants,
said spokeswoman Jessica Marlatt. At least one tour, "Rowdies, Madams and
Painted Women," is adult only; it explores Washington's old red-light district.

All tours are free, but some require registration. For information, go to
http://www.culturaltourismdc.org or call 202-661-7851

-- Timothy R. Smith

Free tickets

For the sixth year, Smithsonian Magazine is distributing free tickets to
hundreds of museums around the country. All the rules and registration for the
Sept. 25 event are online at http://Smithsonianmag.com/museumday.

-- Jacqueline Trescott

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

in brief

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. VA14

LENGTH: 384 words

Project aims to help immigrants integrate

Alexandria is partnering with the National League of Cities on the Municipal
Action for Immigrant Integration (MAII) project, which is designed to help
residents adjust to their new home.

The project, sponsored by the Knight Foundation, is a resource for city
officials and community-based organizations to address challenges by promoting
civic engagement and naturalization among immigrant communities. Alexandria will
participate in MAII's NewCITYzen Naturalization Campaign and the New Americans
Citizens' Academy.

For information, visit
http://www.nlc.org/resources_for_cities/programs___services/maii/aboutmaii.aspx.


Students sought for exchange with Ukraine

The Arlington Sister City Association is seeking sophomore, junior and senior
students for its first exchange between the Ukrainian city of Ivano-Frankivsk
and Arlington County. Students will travel for about two weeks to Ukraine, where
they will be hosted in Ivano-Frankivsk homes and travel in the Carpathian
Mountains, visit the capital city, Kiev, and absorb Ukrainian culture.

For information, contact Malcom Phillips at revmacp@gmail.com or visit
http://www.arlingtonsistercity.org.

Filtering work continues at wastewater plant

Work to vacuum the old filtering system on the west end of Arlington County's
wastewater plant will continue from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. through next Thursday. The
contractors said they are making efforts to minimize noise and other
disturbances.

Eight weeks of upgrades and repairs are scheduled for wastewater lift stations,
including Windy Run, Donaldson Run, Dover Run, Rivercrest and Palisades. Where
applicable, a traffic control plan will be used and work will be performed
between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.

For information, call 703-585-6851.

 Genealogist to discuss family research methods

Historian and genealogist Char McCargo Bah will conduct a workshop and lecture
from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Sept. 18 to discuss how she successfully traced
descendants of people buried at Freedmen's Cemetery and how these techniques can
be applied to any family research.

This event, at the Alexandria Black History Museum, 902 Whythe St., will cost
$5. Registration, due Tuesday, can be completed by calling 703-746-4356 or
visiting http://www.alexblackhistory.org.

-- Compiled by Christy Goodman

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Alexandria-Arlington

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 10, 2010 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Official's views on Muslim immigration divide Germany

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1215 words


The most talked-about man in Germany is a 65-year-old economist whose hot new
book and sudden groundswell of popular support have the media dubbing him a folk
hero. But that is not the only thing they are calling Thilo Sarrazin these days.

Some are also calling him dangerous. Sarrazin, a board member of the German
central bank until he resigned under pressure Thursday, has divided the nation
by postulating the theory that Germany is being "dumbed down" by Muslim
immigrants and their children. Wielding statistics and scientific arguments both
in his book and in public comments, he delves into territory largely taboo here
since the Holocaust, suggesting that "hereditary factors" are at least partly to
blame. Turks and Kurdish immigrants, he asserts, are genetically predisposed to
lower intelligence than Germans and other ethnic groups, including Jews.

His statements have shocked many in Germany, not only because of a national
sensitivity to anything remotely smacking of genetic superiority claims in the
post-World War II era. What has also shocked many is that so many Germans have
rallied to his side as the central bank and his political party have sought to
oust him for his pronouncements.

On Thursday, the Central Bank announced he had finally agreed to tender his
resignation, a week after outraged officials called for it, thus avoiding a
showdown with Germany's president who was set to decide on Sarrazin's fate.

Muslims who are among his critics are calling Sarrazin's surging popularity here
part of a wave of Islamophobia in the West, citing the move to ban burqas in
France and minarets in Switzerland, the opposition to the construction of an
Islamic center near New York City's Ground Zero, and a Florida preacher's plans
(now canceled) to stage a burning of Islamic holy books later this week. Others
say his emergence in Germany, and growing popularity, is fundamentally even more
disturbing.

Though most of Sarrazin's backers are publicly distancing themselves from his
genetic arguments, they are lauding him as a straight-talker willing to address
the problem of Muslim immigrants, who often eschew German language and culture.
By throwing political correctness to the wind, they say, he has dared to speak
the truth about higher immigrant unemployment, birthrates and welfare rates.

Among Germany's population of 82 million, about 5 percent are Muslims, most of
Turkish descent.

A poll published in the national magazine Focus this week showed 31 percent of
respondents agreeing that Germany is "becoming dumber" because of immigrants,
with 62 percent calling Sarrazin's comments "justified" and 52 percent saying he
shouldn't be thrown out of his Social Democratic Party because of them.

Since party chiefs began a process to evict him last week, their headquarters in
Berlin has been inundated with thousands of e-mails supporting Sarrazin.
High-profile politicians, including Chancellor Angela Merkel, have strongly
condemned him.

But others are praising him for bringing concerns about immigration from Muslim
countries to the forefront of the national dialogue.

Sarrazin now has more than 21,000 friends on Facebook and an online fan club.
Less than two weeks after its release, his book, "Germany Does Away With
Itself," is in its seventh printing, topping bestseller lists with more than
300,000 copies shipped so far and many bookstores in Germany still sold out.

German Jewish groups are among Sarrazin's staunchest critics, calling him a
dangerous racist. Though Sarrazin has spoken positively of Jews, saying they
have "high IQs," he courted controversy after declaring in an Aug. 29 interview
that "all Jews share a certain gene." In fact, observers here say that the
official outcry against Sarrazin - including the move to expel him from the
board of the central bank - would have been far more muted had he simply stuck
to his generalizations about Muslims.

But by generalizing about Jewish genetics at all, Sarrazin also "crossed a red
line," said Stephan Kramer, secretary general of the Central Council of Jews in
Germany.

"It's absolutely unacceptable with the history here that such a large amount of
people follow what he says," Kramer said. "The lesson of the Holocaust is not
just about Jews, but that human dignity is indivisible. Yet now, they react if
there is a genetic comment about Jews, but not if it's about the Roma or the
Turks. We obviously still have some homework to do."

Sarrazin's critique of Muslim immigrants has, without question, touched a
national nerve. In the bars, taxis and offices of Berlin, it is the hottest
topic of conservation, with his supporters feeling liberated by Sarrazin's
willingness to throw caution to the wind and speak openly about their concerns.
More than anything, he has tapped into German frustrations about the tendency of
Muslim Turks - who began large-scale immigration in the 1960s to work in German
factories - to live clannish lives, jealously guarding their language and
religious traditions.

The bookish, mustached Sarrazin - who declined a request to comment - is no
stranger to controversy. While a member of the Berlin state senate, he famously
said civil servants had a physical odor and wrote a diet for welfare recipients
who claimed they couldn't live on their meager state assistance checks. But in
the past year, he has homed in on the issue of Turkish and other Muslim
immigrants.

In his book, Sarrazin asserts that Germany is getting dumber in part because of
"congenital disabilities" from inbreeding by Turks and Kurds. "But the subject
is usually hushed up," Sarrazin writes. "Perish the thought that genetic factors
could be partially responsible for the failure of parts of the Turkish
populations in the German school system." He goes on to blame crime and bloated
welfare roles on Turks, using statistics that, according to German media
articles, are often outdated and sometimes just plain wrong.

Many, like Carl Moser, a 26-year-old business school student in Bavaria who
launched a Facebook fan site for Sarrazin, say he went too far with some of his
comments. But "I support him because he dares to speak out on facts that have
come from real data and won't bow down to political correctness," Moser said. "I
am not supportive of everything he is saying, but Germany does have problems
with immigration and integration and politicians are not willing to talk about
it."

In the past, Turkish intellectuals have themselves sharply criticized the
community's lack of assimilation, calling for the children of immigrants to
integrate more fully into Germany society. But if anything, the book appears to
be polarizing Germany, with the Turkish community feeling defensive and
ostracized.

In Kreuzberg, a partly Turkish neighborhood of Berlin dotted with kebab houses
and women in veils, community leader Kenan Kolat said Sarrazin and his
popularity had "damaged" the faith of Germany's Turks in their adopted nation.

"Sarrazin doesn't see a social problem, but an ethnic problem, that we are
genetically inferior," said Kolat, chairman of the Turkish Federation in
Germany. "And yet, German people are supporting him. How do you think the
Turkish community feels?"

faiolaa@washpost.com

Special correspondent Jabeen Bhatti contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 11, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 205 words


Two Museums listings in the Sept. 10 Weekend section incorrectly said that
admission to the Corcoran Gallery of Art is free on Saturdays. After Sept. 6,
Saturday admission reverted to $10, $8 for seniors and students, and free for
children younger than 12.

A Local Digest item in the Sept. 9 Metro section about the indictment of
Bolivian national Carlos Martinelly-Montano in the traffic death of a nun said
that his deportation hearing was delayed because of a backlog at U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Deportation hearings are scheduled by the
Executive Office for Immigration Review at the Department of Justice, not ICE.

A graphic with the continuation of a Sept. 7 Page One article about the race for
county executive in Prince George's County incorrectly said that candidate
Gerron S. Levi is 51 years old. She is 42.

A May 25 A-section article about violent crime in the United States declining in
2009 for the third consecutive year gave an incorrect percentage for the decline
in the District, based on an inaccurate calculation of figures from the FBI's
annual Preliminary Uniform Crime Report. The article said that violent crime in
the District declined 7.2 percent in 2009. The correct figure is 6.7 percent.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Virginia's flawed ID policy

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 251 words


Virginia Gov. Robert F. McDonnell's ill-conceived and shocking policy not to
accept federal employment authorization document (EAD) cards as proof of legal
presence for getting a driver's license ["Va. rejects work permits as proof of
legal status," Metro, Sept. 8] will strip thousands of legal immigrants of their
ability to drive.

Virginia will experience an exodus of hardworking individuals and families that
will cripple communities and schools and further damage our sluggish economy.
The lawful immigrants who stay will be forced to choose between driving without
a license (and therefore without insurance) or giving up critical activities
such as work or taking their children to the doctor.

EAD cards are federally approved identification and are accepted for employment
eligibility verification. If an employer refused to accept a validly issued EAD
card, it could be grounds for an employment discrimination lawsuit. With this
policy change, which should be revoked immediately, Virginia is discriminating
against a large number of immigrants legally present and entitled to licenses.

Further, Virginia is treading on federal preemption territory by its arbitrary
decision that a federally issued document is suspect. The lines at the
Department of Motor Vehicles are long enough -- do we really want low-level
state employees questioning the validity of a federally issued document? The
answer is no.

Lisa Johnson-Firth, Manassas

The writer is a lawyer with an immigration and human rights law firm.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 13, 2010 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Gay couples seeking immigration rights

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 1234 words


When gay couples were given the right to marry in the District earlier this
year, John Beddingfield and Erwin de Leon were among those who quickly obtained
marriage licenses. In April, the Woodley Park couple - who have been together
for 12 years - quietly exchanged vows before a justice of the peace.

Yet even as they pledged to stand by each other in sickness and in health,
Beddingfield, 46, the rector at All Souls Episcopal Church, and de Leon, 44, a
doctoral student from the Philippines, were aware that their marriage still
hadn't guaranteed them the same rights as heterosexual couples. The District
recognizes their marriage, but the federal government does not. The country that
had given de Leon a home, given him an education and given him Beddingfield
would not allow him to start the process of becoming a citizen, even as it
extends that benefit to the foreign-born spouses of heterosexual U.S. citizens.

Once de Leon's student visa runs out next year, he will likely be forced to join
the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States.

"I grew up looking to this country for its ideals and really believe strongly
that it is about equality, freedom and opportunity," de Leon said. "It is too
bad that a small minority - gays and lesbians - are still treated as
second-class citizens.''

About 24,000 gay and lesbian couples in the United States include at least one
foreign partner, according to an analysis of census data by researcher Gary
Gates at UCLA's Williams Institute. Though five states and D.C. issue marriage
licenses to gay couples, a large number of the 24,000 so-called binational
couples in long-term relationships live in states that do not allow or recognize
gay marriage.

The demand by these couples to gain the same immigration rights as heterosexuals
is supported by key members of Congress, but is undermining the fractious
coalition of groups needed to push through an overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws. Including equal treatment for gay partners of U.S. citizens,
key advocates say, threatens to doom the already fragile hopes for change.

"It introduces a new controversial element to the issue which will divide the
faith community and further jeopardize chances for a fair and bipartisan
compromise," said Kevin Appleby of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops,
which last year said the inclusion of gay couples in a House bill aimed at
reuniting families made it "impossible" for the group to support the measure.
"Immigration is hard enough without adding same-sex marriage to the mix."

The National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, a 16-million-strong group
of evangelical Latinos that could play a key political role in an immigration
overhaul, is similarly opposed to including provisions for gay and lesbian
families. The president of the organization, the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, said
that including such a measure would prove to be the "death knell" for
comprehensive change.

Gay and lesbian foreigners around the country who are in the same predicament as
de Leon said the opposition of powerful Catholic and Latino groups was ironic
because those groups often saw an immigration overhaul as a civil rights issue -
and were quick to blame xenophobia and racism for anti-immigrant sentiment -
while simultaneously arguing against equal rights for gays and lesbians.

Another Washington gay couple, who requested that their names not be published
because the foreign partner is a Latino man currently living in the country
under false pretenses and the American partner is a prominent Republican whose
identity could easily lead authorities to the other man, said gays and lesbians
fall in love in the same unpredictable way as straight people. Sometimes, the
object of that love happens to be a foreigner.

"When you love someone, it feels the same," said the Latino man, who is in the
country on a tourist visa and has been working in violation of it. He is afraid
that his immigration status could be exposed at any time, and he could be forced
to leave. He travels outside the country periodically to keep his tourist visa
valid, always making sure when he presents his visa at the border that he has an
air ticket showing when he plans to leave the United States.

"I am insecure because I am worried," he said. "If I have trouble with the
police, they will send me back to my country. I have a partner. All my life is
here. My family lives in Mexico City, but I feel comfortable here. I drive
everyday - if I have an accident or the police stops me and ask me for my
papers, I am afraid."

"Every time he leaves, I wonder is he going to come back to his house, to our
friends, to my family," added his partner.

It is unclear whether an immigration overhaul will take place in the next 12
months. The rise of the "tea party" movement, the popularity of tough new
anti-immigration laws in Arizona and other states and the growing likelihood
that Republicans will control the House of Representatives and possibly the
Senate after the 2010 midterm elections all suggest that an immigration overhaul
will be difficult.

At the same time, advocates for such an overhaul say, there are also powerful
social and political forces that could move changes forward: Chief among them,
the presence of 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country and the
growing political clout of Latinos in states such as Florida, Colorado and
Nevada. Rodriguez rejected the argument that opposing gay marriage provisions in
an immigration overhaul constituted homophobia. Rather, he said, the choice was
between excluding gay and lesbian families from an overhaul of immigration laws
- or losing out on an overhaul altogether.

The key constituency to changes getting passed are white evangelicals, he added.
After years of outreach, Latino evangelicals have formed alliances with white
evangelical groups - and those evangelicals are key to getting Republican votes
in the House. Including provisions related to gay marriage, Rodriguez said,
would prompt white evangelicals to desert the coalition.

"It is not a matter of being anti-anything but being pro-immigration reform," he
said. "It is not fair to morph the immigration agenda with the same-sex agenda."

Steve Ralls, director of communications at Immigration Equality, a legal aid and
advocacy organization that seeks to include gay and lesbian families in any
immigration measure, said he was confident that equal rights would be part of
any overhaul. In the Senate, he said, an immigration bill would have to pass
through the Judiciary Committee, where Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) has been a
strong backer of equal gay and lesbian immigration rights.

For Beddingfield and de Leon, the issue is personal as well as political. De
Leon expects to finish his doctorate in public and urban policy in the spring.
If an immigration overhaul does not allow Beddingfield to sponsor his spouse for
citizenship, de Leon might be able to acquire U.S. residency through his mother.

That's ironic because de Leon's mother came to the United States from the
Philippines after he did. Like de Leon, she married an American, but quickly
obtained legal residency because she was straight. It currently takes about 10
years for Filipinos to sponsor their children for U.S. residency. To de Leon,
that's a long time to wait for a legal right he argues he should already have.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

On Leadership;
views.washingtonpost.com/leadership/fedcoach

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 677 words


The nonprofit Partnership for Public Service and The Post's On Leadership site
produce the Federal Coach, hosted by Tom Fox, director of the partnership's
Center for Government Leadership. The goal is to "engage, inspire and learn from
you, the federal worker, whether you are a new hire, a contractor or a manager
at the highest level." Share your ideas and questions at
fedcoach@ourpublicservice.org

As the director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Alejandro Mayorkas
oversees the world's largest immigration service. Mayorkas previously served as
the U.S. attorney for Southern California, where he supervised cases related to
public corruption, immigration, narcotics trafficking and money laundering.
Mayorkas was born in Havana and immigrated to the United States when he was 1
year old.

As the USCIS director, you oversee a workforce of nearly 18,000 people. What
methods do you use to motivate your employees?

The people in our agency are motivated. The key for a leader is to tap [into]
that sense of motivation and empower people to exercise the talents that they
have developed over the years, and for those who come new to it, educate them on
what a privilege it is to be a part of our agency.

What is motivating about working at USCIS is the mission that we have -- to
fundamentally protect the dreams of people who come to this country in the hope
of a better life. [It] also is pivotally tied to the definition of our nation as
a nation of immigrants, and I think people find tremendous motivation in that.

How do you stay connected with USCIS's large, distributed workforce?

That's a question, frankly, that I'm in the process of answering. I'm trying
different things, and I've been very assertive in my outreach. I have traveled
the country to visit offices. I think that there is no substitute for
person-to-person contact. I have held what I call town-hall meetings, where I'm
live by video and telephone with my workforce throughout the country and take
questions. The town halls are opportunities for conversation, questions and
answers, expression of issues, and an opportunity to share my thoughts with my
colleagues.

What are your biggest day-to-day challenges on the management front, and how are
you overcoming them?

I have developed far-reaching and broad goals, and it is a challenge to keep
focus on those goals because the issues that arise on a day-to-day basis are
very significant and can swallow one's time. Being able to maintain that focus
on the future as well as ensuring that the present builds the future is a
difficult balance.

The ability to delegate many of the day-to-day challenges is instrumental in
keeping focus. I'm a very hands-on person, and I want to communicate to those
around me [about] how I approach issues, prioritize things, the values that I
bring. So when they call upon me for support and assistance and when I call upon
them for the same, we come to a place where we all have a united vision for our
agency.

How do you apply your knowledge and legal experience to your tenure as the USCIS
director?

I'm dealing with a subject matter and administrating a complex set of laws, and
my ability to understand the laws that we are tasked to administer, both their
spirit and their letter, I think is made more facile by reason of my legal
education and experience. I think more broadly, and I think this speaks to
leadership generally.

As a lawyer, and especially as a federal prosecutor, I learned to address
complex sets of facts and most importantly make decisions, sometimes quickly,
especially in the crucible of the courtroom. I think that skill set serves me
well in the agency.

How has your background as a Cuban immigrant affected you as a leader?

I understand deeply the experience of the people who come before us. I speak
therefore not just with passion but I think with standing, and I share those
sensitivities with my colleagues.

Visit On Leadership at http://views.washingtonpost.com/leadership/fedcoach.

Mondays: "Getting Ahead" -- advice on leading up.

Wednesdays: "View From the Top Floor."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Alejandro Mayorkas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 532 words


Pius D. Bannis is the Haiti field office director for the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services. After the devastating earthquake in January , Bannis
helped hundreds of Haitian orphans find safety in the United States with new
families already in the adoption process. Before going to Haiti in 2008, he also
served as an asylum and refugee officer. Bannis was just named the 2010 Service
to America Medals Federal Employee of the Year.

What attracted you to public service?

I like being with and helping people. I am totally averse to sitting at a desk
all day writing policy memos and figuring out the best regulation. I like
dealing directly with the public. One of my greatest joys was being in Africa
talking to a family in a refugee camp, hearing their story and, after
interviewing them, saying, "I think you have been persecuted, and I am going to
grant you a refugee status in the United States. Get ready to travel." When you
see the sparkle in that person's eye, you realize you have done something that
really touches somebody's life.

How should leaders prepare for a crisis or the unexpected?

One thing I know for sure is that you can never prepare fully for a catastrophe
like this. At work, we had an emergency committee, and when the earthquake
happened, the book went through the window. It was a thick book that said what
each and every person was supposed to do in case we had such an emergency.
Members of the committee had died in their homes. We realized maybe we could not
find the people who were supposed to be wardens. Some of them were dead or
injured, and we could not follow that script.

Prepare as much as you can and have all the meetings and committees set up. But
in the end, there will be chaos, and controlling the chaos is what will save the
day. If you can't control the chaos, then you will have total disarray.

What did you learn about collaborating during times of crisis?

I have never seen such dedicated public servants from every government agency
working so flawlessly together. Everybody became involved. In a situation like
this, you can't be playing tough and saying, "This is my territory, and only I
can do that." Everybody does everything. I had a Secret Service guy answering
the phone for me; I had another reading e-mails. I had a guy from diplomatic
security helping me transport the kids to the airport. Some of them were
driving. That is not their job, but they came together in the emergency. They
were not going to let a kid die in the embassy compound.

I think we learned a lot from Katrina and the situations where people simply did
not come together and do what they had to do. I think that the Haiti situation
was quite different - people knew that everybody's eyes were focused on what
they were doing.

How would you describe your leadership approach in the aftermath of the
earthquake?

I am a command and control type. In that situation, I was. But if there is
nothing critical going on, I am more collaborative and will ask for ideas. I
believe that there is a time when you have to be command and control. You have
to act with authority and make people do what you believe is the right thing for
the time . . . for the right purpose.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Chinese immigrants, unwelcome guests of another era

BYLINE: Carolyn See

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 855 words


THE LUCKY ONES

One Family and the Extraordinary Invention of Chinese America

By Mae Ngai

Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 288 pp. $26

Anyone observing the controversy over illegal Latin American immigration should
remember that today's high emotions are pale evocations of how the United States
treated Chinese immigrants from 1882 to 1943.

The Exclusion Laws were just what the name implied: Chinese merchants were
allowed entrance, but laborers and unattached women were unequivocally barred
from this country. In the last quarter of the 19th century, irate American
citizens -- especially on the West Coast, from where I write -- looked around
and saw entirely too many Chinese people. A strong physical, spiritual and
emotional aversion possessed our country, and working-class Chinese became
anathema in America. The exclusion laws weren't lifted until 1943, the middle of
World War II, when the Chinese, beaten up by Japan for a decade or so, became
our de facto friends.

This book is not about the exclusion laws per se, though it could not exist
without them. Mae Ngai has chosen to write about the class of Chinese who, in
the early days of immigration, owed their existence to "profiting from the legal
regime of racial discrimination. . . . [They] became labor contractors,
transportation agents, and government interpreters." These people, under white
supervision, monitored the traffic from Asia to America. They were meant to help
stem the tide of Chinese people who were lying like mad to reach the comparative
safety of this country.

The Chinese interpreters were one step ahead of the unfortunates they tried to
control. They had access to immigration papers, boardinghouses, transportation
-- something as simple yet potentially lucrative as getting an immigrant from a
ship to a place to stay; their hands were on all the ropes. The author calls
these people "the lucky ones," and her new book traces the story of three
generations of a Chinese interpreter's family -- hard workers who attained a
place in the upper middle class very early during this wave of immigration.

They did it by working for the white man, and everything that implies. Their
loyalties were toward their employers. Some of them conformed to the values and
rules of their Caucasian bosses, and some of them were shameless crooks,
extorting money from Chinese who were desperately trying to get into the
country. They also took commissions on steamer tickets, made money by posting
bond for people believed to be flight risks, and charged job seekers finder's
fees.

These interpreters were disconcertingly similar to today's "coyotes," who drive
their illegal cargo across the Sonoran Desert and then pile them up in anonymous
tract houses on this side of the border. The interpreters rose inevitably in the
United States, but they weren't exactly beloved by either race.

With remarkable -- some might say chilling -- objectivity, Mae Ngai follows the
fortunes of her chosen family, the Tapes of San Francisco. Joseph Tape, whose
Chinese name was Jeu Dip, came to this country in 1864. He was only 12. He went
to work as a drayman at first, with one horse and one cart, and worked like a
fiend for his whole life, mainly doing interpreting work for immigration
officials. He amassed real estate, hunting lodges and luxury cars. His female
relatives dressed beautifully. He married a girl by the name of Mary, who didn't
even have a recorded Chinese name. The couple avoided Chinatown like the plague.
(In fact, in 1900, 22 people in San Francisco died of the plague, most of them
Chinese. Whites wanted to raze Chinatown, but never got around to it.)

The Tapes had children, three girls and a boy. Joe's son made extra money from
extortion and had a checkered, somewhat shameful career. Two of the girls
married interpreters. Their whole thrust was to become "American," but this came
at a considerable cost. Three of the four Tape children divorced or separated;
the women tended to suffer from depression.

The author leaves out a lot. She leaves out the loathsome rhetoric of
hysterical, hate-filled whites against the Chinese. She writes cheerily about
Chinese in locked railroad cars at the St. Louis World's Fair, but leaves out
the fear and sadness that must have come from being locked up. She talks about
the Angel Island immigration station (which wasn't built until 1910) but leaves
out its horrors. She relies most heavily on census documents and other
historical records, which are, of course, refreshingly exempt from emotion. Only
some photographs and a couple of still-living descendants give any personal
information.

The Tapes exist here as the product of documents, and of course this is an
interesting and informative book, but except for a few lines about depression,
there's no suffering here at all. The early Tapes seem hardly to have been
human. Which, of course, is what the whites thought all along.

See reviews books regularly for The Post.

Sunday in Outlook

 -- How to become a scandal.

-- How to lie with statistics.

-- How fur built the American empire.

-- How African Americans migrated north.

-- And how chemicals alter our environment.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

A lens on Manassas's immigration wars

BYLINE: David Montgomery

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 539 words


Midway through "9500 Liberty," their penetrating new documentary about the
immigration wars of 2007-2008 in Prince William County, filmmakers Eric Byler
and Annabel Park let slip which side they are on.

Byler puts down his camera to testify at a hearing of the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights. He and Park have been such equitable observers of the complicated
controversy -- posting serial YouTube clips of their work-in-progress, showing
all points of view without editorial comment -- that the commissioners must
think they can shed authoritative light.

After Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey Stewart appears flustered and
defensive when asked for facts to back his claim that illegal immigrants drag
down the economy and drive up the crime rate, the commission turns to Byler. He
lists the characteristics Stewart's supporters cite to describe the people they
want to drive out:

"Speaking Spanish, playing Latin music, owning a chicken, growing corn, not
having health insurance, or living in crowded conditions. These are not a sign
of your immigration status," Byler insists. "This is a sign of a particular
immigrant community that is struggling to overcome poverty."

He cannot then pick up his camera and adopt the same detached posture as before,
but "9500 Liberty" never feels like propaganda. (The name comes from an address
at the corner of Liberty and Prince William streets where immigrant supporters
erected a series of hand-lettered billboard commentaries.) There is a point of
view, but it is earned, and the most zealous immigrant advocates will not be
happy, either, with the compromise conclusion.

What Byler and Park portray as a victory for civic sanity is still one of the
tougher local immigration enforcement laws in the land.

The story's spine is how the county board, egged on by bloggers, came to
unanimously pass a law requiring county police to check the immigration status
of anyone they stop if they suspect the person might be an illegal immigrant.
Six months later, faced with fiscal and legal realities and stiffening
resistance from many non-Latino residents, the board retreated and required
police to check only those actually arrested. Since all arrestees are checked,
chances of racial profiling are diminished.

The film is edited and paced to make county board politics look Shakespearean.
The camera nearly achieves the ideal of the proverbial fly on the wall,
venturing into private homes and businesses in search of the stories behind the
story.

The filmmakers' good faith effort to create a "safe space" for all varieties of
raw emotion pays off. The desperation of those who speak at the edge of tears
about discrimination and deportation is heartbreaking. But the panic and anger
in the raised voices of those who decry this "invasion" are no less sincere or
moving, in their way.

Greg Letiecq, the anti-illegal-immigrant blogger, confides his religiously based
worldview and invites Byler and Park to meetings of Help Save Manassas. He comes
off as a nice guy -- a little too sure of himself, but not a caricature.

"Not only do we want to send them back," he says, "we want to send them back
with love."

9500 Liberty

airs at 8 p.m. Sunday on MTV 2, MTV U and MTV Tr3s (with Spanish subtitles).

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 2, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

When Stephen Colbert got serious

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 232 words


In her Sept. 29 op-ed, "Colbert's circus tent," Ruth Marcus criticized the
decision to invite comedian Stephen Colbert to an immigration subcommittee
hearing regarding farmworkers and immigration policy. The column missed an
opportunity to discuss important issues and policy responses that Mr. Colbert
and other witnesses raised.

The public's attention is rarely drawn to migrant farmworkers. Many politicians
want to avoid discussing immigration policy because it has been turned into a
wedge issue by ideologues. Referring to the hearing with Mr. Colbert as  "farce"
perhaps makes for a stimulating column, but is yet another way of avoiding the
topic.

The real news is that Mr. Colbert at several points in his unconventional
testimony poignantly noted the problems faced by migrant farmworkers and farm
operators and suggested that Congress seriously consider a  compromise policy
solution known as the Agricultural Job Oppportunities, Benefits and Security
Act.

The hearing presented a rare opportunity to draw the public's attention to
problems faced by farmworkers and farm operators and their "strange bedfellows"
coalition that produced a reasonable policy response. The column could have
discussed the merits of Mr. Colbert's appearance  and the issues that led to the
hearing. Migrant farmworkers deserve better.

Bruce Goldstein, Washington

The writer is president of Farmworker Justice.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Italy closes the door on Gypsies

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1533 words


MILAN - This venerable city, long known for savory saffron risotto and the leggy
models of Fashion Week, is moving to establish itself as something else: a
zero-tolerance zone for Gypsies.

Anti-Gypsy campaigns in neighboring France have sparked international criticism,
with officials there in recent months deporting more than 1,000 ethnic Roma - a
clannish people migrating west in large numbers from Eastern Europe. But with
great bravado, Milan is taking the lead in responding to Italy's own "Gypsy
Emergency."

Blaming rising crime on the new waves of Roma immigrants, authorities are moving
to dismantle Milan's largest authorized Gypsy camp, Triboniano, a teeming
shantytown of street musicians and day laborers that officials decry as a den of
thieves. At the same time, Milan is bulldozing hundreds of small, impromptu
camps inhabited by newer arrivals and issuing mass eviction notices to Roma
families living in another long-established camp in the city's largest immigrant
neighborhood.

"These are dark-skinned people, not Europeans like you and me," said Riccardo De
Corato, who is Milan's vice mayor from Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's ruling
party and who is in charge of handling the camps. He later added: "Our final
goal is to have zero Gypsy camps in Milan."

The campaign underway here is part of what observers are calling the most
intense wave of anti-immigration sentiment to wash over Western Europe in years.

The immigration debate in Europe, just as in the United States, has dramatically
intensified in the wake of the Great Recession, with voters increasingly blaming
immigrants such as the Roma for taking away jobs, driving up crime rates and
disturbing time-honored traditions.

Across the continent, governments are boldly throwing up new barriers to
immigration, increasing enforcement and targeting groups such as the Roma, who
are also known as Gypsies. Even in some of the most progressive nations in the
region, such as Sweden, voters are showing new support for ultra-right
politicians whose platforms center on a tougher line on immigration.

In Britain, the new Conservative-led coalition government has slapped a
temporary cap on immigration from non-European Union nations, limiting the
ability of companies to hire foreign nationals in a bid to drive down the
unemployment rate. A permanent cap set to go into effect next year is expected
to make it more difficult for even Americans to get long-term work visas there.

In France, a proposed law could strip citizenship from foreigners naturalized
for less than 10 years if they commit violent crimes against the police or a
government official. New detention centers would be set up to make it easier to
deport illegal immigrants. Citizens of other European Union countries - who
theoretically enjoy freedom of movement across the 27-nation zone - would find
it harder to stay in France if they are not law-abiding and gainfully employed.

For a region that prides itself as a bastion of progressive thought, the
campaigns in Europe have nevertheless taken on a decidedly ethnic and religious
bent similar to the debates in the United States over the proposed Islamic
center in Manhattan and the Arizona law targeting illegal immigrants.

A new law in France will ban Muslim women from wearing full-face Islamic veils
in public, with similar laws pending in the Netherlands and Spain. Switzerland
has prohibited the construction of mosque minarets. But the campaigns against
the Roma in France and Italy have stoked accusations that politicians are
targeting unpopular immigrant groups to shore up flagging support.

"There is a worrying trend in Europe in which we are seeing the embrace of
populist policies," said Benjamin Ward, the Europe deputy director for Human
Rights Watch in London. "They are creating a new climate of intolerance in
Europe with movements in some countries now openly hostile to ethnic minorities
and migrants."

Few nations, though, have gone as far as Italy, where the number of immigrants
has more than doubled over the past decade, to more than 5 million.

Since Berlusconi was reelected in 2008, his fragile conservative coalition has
made immigration and domestic security priorities, passing a law that imposes a
fine of up to $13,600 on illegal immigrants and increasing salary and housing
requirements for legal immigrants trying to bring in family members.

Last year, Italy virtually stopped issuing new work permits for non-European
Union immigrants and set up a policy aimed at preventing refugees from entering
the country by sea from North Africa. The result, according to the U.N. refugee
agency, has been a dramatic drop in boat lifts across the Mediterranean from
Libya, which had become a major transit route not only for thousands of economic
migrants but also for asylum seekers from Somalia, Sudan and other African
nations.

"It would be difficult now for immigration policy to get any more restrictive in
Italy, unless we started to build walls," said Oliviero Forti, immigration
director for the Catholic charity Caritas in Rome.

Inside the ramshackle Triboniano camp in northern Milan, Vladimiro Ilie, a Roma
from Romania, stared at boxes brimming with clothes, pots and pans in the
two-room trailer he shares with his wife and two children. "My family has been
packing our things over the last few days," said Ilie, 41. "We have been warned
by the city that at any moment, they will show up and tell us to leave."

The clearing of Triboniano, an encampment of 600 established in 2001, is at the
center of the city's plan to expel Roma. The effort underscores the stresses
tearing at the E.U. over the flow of Eastern European immigrants into the West,
even as it aspires to be a unified and nearly borderless region. Although the
citizens of E.U. nations largely have access to the labor markets in other
nations, countries may still use legal loopholes to expel those who commit
crimes, are considered a threat to public security or go without a job for
lengthy periods.

Originally a nomadic people who came to Europe from South Asia centuries ago,
Roma were persecuted by the Nazis during the Holocaust. They have lived in Italy
for generations, but their numbers soared after their traditional homeland of
Romania was admitted into the E.U. in 2007. Since then, the number of Romanians
in Italy - a substantial portion of them Roma - has almost tripled, to 800,000.

Famously insular, the Roma have tended to cluster in caravan camps, preserving
their language and music and often earning hardscrabble livelihoods on the
streets. They have been long associated with crime. After the rape and murder of
an Italian woman by a Roma man, the national government declared a "Gypsy
Emergency" in 2008 - long before France's campaign this summer - granting
extraordinary powers to cities to address the influx.

Nowhere has that campaign been as sharp and swift as in Milan, Italy's center of
industrial wealth, which is dominated by Berlusconi's party and the
ultra-nationalist Northern League. Over the past two years, Milanese officials
have expelled 7,000 Roma, leveling 346 illegal settlements.

Now the city is targeting several formerly authorized camps. Although officials
initially said Triboniano must go to make room for a new highway, De Corato
described the move as more of a social decision.

"Many of them are criminals," the vice mayor said in an interview. "They
prostitute their own women and children." He later said that "there is no reason
for the camp to stay."

A few families, including Ilie's, were to be granted public housing to show
Milan's willingness to embrace Roma prepared to integrate into Italian life. But
two weeks ago, officials rescinded the offer after an outcry from local
residents and the national government. Officials say camp dwellers who do not
leave voluntarily will be taken to the city limits; those with criminal records
or no jobs could be deported.

Privately, even some in Triboniano say the camp maintains an unemployment rate
of more than 60 percent and is home to some engaging in criminal activity. But
Ilie, a carpenter who left Romania for Italy with his family in 1999, said Roma
are being painted with a broad brush and that many, like him, are eager to
integrate.

His children - Ana Maria, 16, and Luigi, 11 - no longer speak their native
dialect. Both go to Italian schools and have Italian friends. "I don't care what
happens to this camp anymore; what I care about is my family," he said. "We want
to integrate, but they won't give us the chance."

The hard-line approach in Milan contrasts sharply with one in Rome. There, the
local government is relocating Gypsies to camps with tighter security and
constant video surveillance but also with better sanitary conditions, including
running water and electricity. Gypsy immigrants from Eastern Europe will be
given four years to find jobs and educate their children. Those who do will be
allowed access to public housing. Those who don't, officials say, will face
deportation.

"Italy," said Giuseppe Pecoraro, Rome's special representative on Gypsy issues,
"is still a tolerant country."

faiolaa@washpost.com

Special correspondent Rebecca Omonira-Oyekanmi contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Findings secret on crash that killed nun

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 738 words


The Obama administration will not release the results of an investigation into
why an illegal immigrant with two drunken-driving convictions went almost two
years without a deportation hearing before a crash that killed a Virginia nun, a
senior official said.

Carlos Martinelly-Montano, 23, who entered the country illegally from Bolivia as
a child, is accused of killing Sister Denise Mosier, 66, and critically injuring
two other Benedictine nuns while driving drunk in Prince William County on Aug.
1.

The furor over the way Martinelly-Montano's case was handled by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement prompted the agency's boss, Department of Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, to announce an investigation.

"Why is it that this individual was driving?" Napolitano asked at a news
conference Aug. 2, one day after the accident on Bristow Road. "He was in the
removal process. Why did the removal process take so long?"

The inquiry is complete, but Homeland Security does not plan to make the results
public, according to the senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because he was not authorized to speak about the matter.

"It's a document that includes law enforcement sensitivities, so it will not be
made public," the official said. He declined to discuss the nature of those
sensitivities.

In response to questions about the investigation's conclusions, DHS spokesman
Matt Chandler issued an e-mailed statement that said: "The Secretary's Office
has received the review of the circumstances by which the individual was
released in 2008 and are in the process of looking over the findings. Due to the
ongoing criminal matter at hand, it would be inappropriate to comment further."

Told of the government's decision to withhold the investigation's results, Corey
Stewart, chairman of the Prince William Board of County Supervisors, expressed
outrage.

"Prince William County has never been more frustrated with the Department of
Homeland Security and Secretary Napolitano than it is right now," said Stewart,
who has been demanding, without success, that ICE detail how many illegal
immigrants are being released after they've been charged with crimes. "They say
one thing and do another. They say they are going to do something and then
backtrack."

After Martinelly-Montano's second drunken-driving arrest in October 2008, ICE
officials released him on his own recognizance while he was awaiting a
deportation hearing. He was in regular touch with immigration officials, even as
his hearing was delayed three times.

Martinelly-Montano lost control of his Subaru at 8 a.m. Sunday, Aug. 1, and
collided head-on with the car bearing the nuns, who were on their way to a
retreat at their monastery in Bristow.

Sister Charlotte Lange, 70, who was driving, is still hospitalized at a
rehabilitation facility in Richmond but is expected to make a full recovery,
according to Sister Cecilia Dwyer, prioress of the Benedictine Sisters.

Sister Connie Ruth Lupton, 75, who was sitting in the front passenger seat, was
hospitalized in a long-term acute-care hospital and is starting physical
therapy, Dwyer said.

"She will certainly survive, but whether she will be 100 percent, we don't
know," Dwyer said in an interview.

Lupton has no memory of the accident, Dwyer said, and Lange has only a brief
recollection of what happened: "All she remembers is that a car was suddenly in
her face."

Dwyer said the nuns will cooperate with legal proceedings against
Martinelly-Montano.

She added that the order is united in forgiving the drunk driver. "It comes out
of how we live," Dwyer said.

Martinelly-Montano has been charged with felony murder, drunken driving, driving
with a suspended license and manslaughter. His case is set to go to trial in
March, Prince William authorities said.

Stewart blamed ICE for the accident.

"They didn't deport this [expletive] that killed a nun, and he had been
convicted of DUI twice," Stewart said. "It is their policy to not deport people
unless they are convicted of serious crimes. They are going to say this is some
bureaucratic snafu, but they are only deporting people who commit a violent act,
and since they don't consider DUI a violent act, they are releasing them."

In statistics released earlier in the week, ICE officials said that in the past
year alone, they had deported nearly 28,000 undocumented immigrants who had been
convicted of driving under the influence.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

In brief

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW20

LENGTH: 392 words

Stewart seeks tea party help on immigration bill

Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), chairman of the Prince William Board of County
Supervisors, has been visiting "tea parties" across Virginia to drum up support
for his legislation that would force state officials to crack down on illegal
immigration.

He began speaking about the Rule of Law Campaign at a tea party meeting in
Richmond in June. He followed that with talks to the Northern Virginia,
Middlesex, Montross and Apple Valley tea party groups.

His Virginia Rule of Law PAC was a sponsor of the Virginia Tea Party Patriots
Convention this weekend in Richmond, attended by nearly 3,000 activists.

He has collected about 16,000 signatures supporting his legislation through
Twitter, Facebook and the campaign's Web site. His goal is 100,000.

"I'm getting a very positive response on illegal immigration from the tea party
-- sometimes more than I do from Republicans," Stewart said. "Some Republicans
are afraid of turning voters off."

Stewart, who has long considered a bid for statewide office, is weighing a run
for U.S. Senate in 2012 or lieutenant governor in 2013. But he plans to run for
reelection as board chairman next year.

Stewart also has spoken at GOP committee, Young Republican and Republican
Women's Club events. This month, he will speak to the Fredericksburg Patriots
and the Chester Patriots.

In July, Stewart formed a political action committee to push for the
legislation, which he said he hopes will be debated in next year's legislative
session.

The bill aims to enhance police officials' power to capture, detain and deport
illegal immigrants; curb illegal day laboring; and create specific state
penalties for illegal immigrants.

 Climate movie, discussion Tuesday at George Mason

A free screening of "Climate Refugees" will begin at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday in
Verizon Auditorium at George Mason University's Manassas campus, 10900
University Blvd.

The film, by Michael Nash, opened last year's international summit on climate
change in Copenhagen.

A panel discussion with Tom Land of the Environmental Protection Agency and the
Rev. Vinnie Lainson, a certified climate project presenter, will follow the
screening.

The film is part of the Immigration and Human Rights Cinema series by Unity in
the Community and University Life Prince William of GMU.

-- Compiled by Anita Kumar and Sarah Lane

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Anti-Muslim feelings propel right wing

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1433 words


STOCKHOLM - On the heels of elections that stunned many in this famously
progressive land, Kent Ekeroth and his peers marched through the castle-like
parliament doors this month on a mission to combat what they call Sweden's
greatest problem: Muslim immigration.

The 20 Swedish Democrats - the first national lawmakers from a party initially
spawned in the 1980s by white supremacists - are working to impose a moratorium
on new mosques, ban the shroud-like coverings worn by some conservative Muslim
women and largely halt immigration from predominantly Muslim nations.

Alarm over the anti-immigrant wave intensified recently as authorities warned
"dark-skinned" residents in the southern city of Malmo that one or more snipers
are targeting immigrants, killing one and wounding eight in 15 separate
shootings this year.

The rise to office of the Swedish Democrats in September's elections touched off
a heated debate in this country, home of the Nobel Prize and known as the
"conscience of the world" for aiding refugees and pioneering laws for women's
equality and gay rights. Yet even here, the Swedish Democrats made it into the
Rikstag by tapping into a surge of anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim sentiment
sweeping across many nations in Western Europe, propelling right-wing and
nationalist parties to their biggest gains in years.

"The Swedish are tired of walking around in their own neighborhoods and feeling
like they're in Saudi Arabia," said Ekeroth, an intense 30-year-old and founder
of the new Anti-Islamic Fund, which promotes criticism of radical Islam. "It is
time for the Swedish to be comfortable again in their own country."

At the same time, resentment is brewing in nations like Sweden over a rising
tide of Muslim immigrants and the reluctance of some to adopt local customs,
testing the limits of tolerance in some of the world's most open-minded
societies.

Unlike in the United States, where Latinos dominate the immigration debate,
European angst is increasingly focused on waves of Muslims - Turks, Iraqis,
Somalis and others - who have become the hottest-button issue in recent
elections. In Austria this month, the far-right Freedom Party made massive gains
in regional elections after an anti-immigrant campaign that included a "Bye Bye
Mosque" Internet game. It allowed players to target virtual minarets in elegant
Vienna and pastoral Alpine villages with a single word: "stop."

With climbing unemployment rates and painful spending cuts in the aftermath of
the economic crisis, even mainstream leaders of the center right, including
France's President Nicolas Sarkozy, are noting the growing anti-immigration
undercurrent. Through measures including a ban on the full-length veils worn by
conservative Muslim women, critics say, Sarkozy is seeking the support of the
far-right backers of Jean-Marie Le Pen, the French nationalist who made a strong
presidential bid in 2002.

Last week, German Chancellor Angela Merkel issued her toughest line yet on
immigrants. For weeks, Merkel has condemned Thilo Sarrazin, a former Central
Bank board member turned folk hero in Germany who penned a shocking bestseller
arguing that Turkish and Kurdish immigrants are genetically inferior.

But the book also ignited a debate in Germany over the unwillingness of many
immigrants - particularly Muslims - to integrate. Merkel last week appeared to
side with immigration critics, saying at a party conference that Germany's
experiment to build a "multicultural" nation had "failed, absolutely failed."

The long-liberal lands of Scandinavia and the Netherlands are also seeing a
nationalist party renaissance. Last week, a conservative Dutch government came
to power with the support of the anti-Islamic party of Geert Wilders, who is
standing trial on a charge of inciting racial hatred against Muslims. In
exchange for his support, Wilders extracted promises that the new government
would take dramatic steps to curb immigration and follow the French in banning
full-length Muslim veils.

In recent months, right-wing and nationalist parties have also consolidated or
are now poised to expand their power in Denmark, Norway and Finland.

Farther south, Italy's Northern League - which is already part of the
government's ruling coalition and has opposed the construction of a mosque in
Milan - won key victories in Venice and Piedmont last March.

"In many parts of Europe, the debate over immigration and Islam are now the same
thing," said Lisa Bjurwald, an author and journalist based in Stockholm who has
written about Muslim immigration.

The number of immigrants in Sweden rose from 58,000 in 2000 to 102,000 last
year, including refugees from Somalia and Iraq. Last year, 1.3 million people
out of Sweden's population of 9.3 million were foreign-born.

The influx has touched a nerve in communities like Almgarden, a blue-collar
suburb of cement-block apartment buildings and well-tended green parks outside
Malmo in the Swedish south.

Tensions are running high in this traditionally more-conservative part of
Sweden. Police are more frequently clashing with Muslim youths in one immigrant
neighborhood; during a riot last year, dozens of angry teens torched cars and
broke shop windows.

After the shootings in Malmo, authories warned immigrants to be extra vigilant.
Police have not revealed details about suspects, saying only that they are
looking for at least one male and that the crimes appear to be racially
motivated.

The case has echoes of the "Laser Man" shootings here in the 1990s that took
place around the time another far-right party briefly managed to enter the
Swedish parliament. Starting in summer 1991, John Ausonius - known as Laser Man
for his rifle's red-laser targeting system - shot 11 immigrants, killing one,
before being caught and sentenced to life in prison in 1994.

The Swedish Democrats earned only 2 percent of the vote in liberal Stockholm but
35 percent in Almgarden.

"It isn't racist to want to preserve your culture," said Leif Johansson, a
64-year-old carpenter. "I'm open to immigration, but these people come without a
thought to integration, no interest in learning Swedish or being part of Swedish
society."

Indeed, the Swedish Democrats, like more and more nationalist parties in Europe,
have tried to go mainstream, purging former white supremacists and neo-Nazis.

Ekeroth, for instance, has a Jewish mother and strongly backs Israel. In
addition, he said the Swedish Democrats no longer oppose gay rights, and he
cites instances of gay-bashing committed by Muslims in Sweden to bolster his
party's position on immigration. The party doubled its support from the last
elections to almost 6 percent of the vote in September, allowing it to sit in
parliament for the first time.

The Swedish Democrats are denounced as xenophobes by the ruling center-right
coalition, which has vowed not to cooperate with their agenda. Nevertheless,
even the government is rethinking parts of Sweden's immigration policy, among
the most liberal in the world.

While there have long been vocal anti-immigrant groups in Sweden, most Swedes in
recent decades have embraced "multiculturalism," or the notion that immigrants
have the right to preserve their language, customs and values.

But with a recent poll showing that 73 percent of Swedes consider the lack of
integration a problem, the government is set to announce a new measure in
December that would compel more immigrants to learn Swedish.

In addition, one of the major coalition parties is supporting a more limited ban
on full-length Muslim veils in schools and this month came out against a panel
recommendation that all major religions should be given equal time in lesson
plans, saying Christianity should maintain a special status in Swedish schools.

In Stockholm's predominantly immigrant neighborhood of Rinkeby, the mood in the
kebab houses and coffee shops is still one of shock at the success of the
Swedish Democrats.

But Alma Adan, a 32-year-old Somali immigrant and youth counselor, said the
Muslim community should also look inward. New immigrants, she said, should
settle across Sweden, not just in neighborhoods like Rinkeby, and learn Swedish.
Through workshops and counseling, she is trying to help young Muslims -
including those who rioted in her neighborhood this summer, burning down a
school building and setting cars on fire - feel more at home in their adopted
homeland.

"That vote was about fear," she said, referring to support for the Swedish
Democrats. "Fear among Swedes that their country is being taken away from them.
But it is up to us to show them that this is not the case."

faiolaa@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Report points to faster recovery in jobs for immigrants

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 814 words


Native-born Americans lost more than a million jobs while foreign-born workers
gained hundreds of thousands of jobs as the country emerged from a painful
recession, according to a new analysis of economic trends.

In the second quarter of this year, foreign-born workers gained 656,000 jobs,
compared with the period last year, and native-born workers lost 1.2 million
jobs, according to a report issued Friday by the Pew Hispanic Center.

"There is a substantial difference in how the economic recovery is working out
for the native-born and the foreign-born," said Rakesh Kochhar, associate
director of the center and co-author of the report. He added that "only the
immigrant experience has been a positive one. The native-born experience - the
best that can be said is, 'They bled less than in the last year.' "

The report looks at a period in which about 100,000 native-born workers were
temporarily employed by the 2010 Census - meaning that the true effects of the
recession were probably worse for native-born workers than the numbers suggest.

Based on a detailed analysis of Labor Department statistics, the report is sure
to inflame the already charged national debate over immigration. It also adds
fuel to the fire over the larger question of whether immigration is a
fundamentally good thing or bad thing for the American economy.

"Our government has continued to bring in more foreign workers the entire time
the economy was losing jobs," said Roy Beck, president of Numbers USA, a group
that seeks to reduce immigration.

As with the larger story of the effect of immigration on the economy, the data
in the new report are complex. The report does not explain why foreign-born
workers are doing so much better than native-born workers. It is possible, for
example, that sectors of the economy that typically employ more foreign-born
workers are rebounding faster than sectors that typically employ native-born
workers.

Foreign-born workers also did significantly worse than native-born workers as
the recession began, so it is possible they represent an early warning system
for other workers - for both better and worse.

One implication of the data is that the number of unauthorized immigrants
entering the United States - a figure that declined during the recession - could
rise again as the economy rebounds and jobs accessible to foreign-born workers
become available, Kochhar said.

Officials with the American Immigration Council, an immigrant rights
organization, rejected the idea that employment among foreign-born and
native-born workers is a zero-sum game. "Immigrant and native-born workers are
not interchangeable, nor do they compete with each other for some fixed number
of jobs in the U.S. economy," said Mary Giovagnoli, director of the Immigration
Policy Center, a rights group.

The report emphasizes job losses and gains among Hispanic workers because they
make up the lion's share of the foreign-born workforce. In construction,
foreign-born Hispanics gained 98,000 jobs between the second quarter of this
year and the second quarter of last year; native-born Hispanics lost 133,000
jobs; and native born non-Hispanics lost 511,000 jobs.

In the finance, insurance and real estate sector, foreign-born Hispanic workers
gained 26,000 jobs; native-born Hispanic workers lost 18,000 jobs; and native
born non-Hispanics lost 112,000 jobs.

In some sectors, some native-born workers gained jobs, but those gains were
outpaced by the gains of foreign-born workers. In personal and household
services, foreign-born Hispanic workers gained 35,000 jobs and native-born
Hispanic workers gained 10,000 jobs. Native born non-Hispanics lost 113,000
jobs.

Kochhar, pointing to one factor that might explain the data, said real wages for
foreign-born workers fell by about 7 percent, and wages for native-born workers
remained flat. Foreign-born workers may also be more mobile, as well as more
desperate.

"For the immigrant arriving in the United States for the first time, there are
few constraints on where to go," he said. "If the job is in L.A. or Dallas or
New York, that is where you are going to go. There is also less access to
unemployment benefits so there will be more flexibility on what rates you will
take, what job you will do and where you will do it."

Economists are divided over whether immigration is a net benefit for the
economy. A recent report by the the Migration Policy Institute and Giovanni
Peri, an economist at the University of California at Davis, suggests that, over
a 7-to-10-year period, immigration produces higher wages for native-born workers
without harming employment levels but that benefits are concentrated among the
highly educated workforce. In the short term, and especially in tough economic
times, immigration can hurt lower-educated native-born workers in terms of
available jobs and wages, according to the report.

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

'Angels behind me'

BYLINE: Shankar Vedantam

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1084 words


For 15 years, Marco Antonio Rua fixed toilets, replaced broken pipes and
answered desperate midnight calls from residents of the Wisconsin, a 204-unit
condominium in North Bethesda.

Now the residents have gone to work for him.

In September, immigration authorities ordered Rua and his 17-year-old daughter
to leave the United States after his family's petition for permanent residency
was turned down. Rua marked his last day of work at the Wisconsin on Tuesday.

The news of Rua's impending deportation shocked those at the condominium, whose
well-connected residents include a U.S. senator, Hawaii's Daniel Inouye. In
recent weeks, residents have lobbied Congress and the Department of Homeland
Security, asking them to let Rua and his family remain in the country.

Gail Shultie, the Wisconsin's property manager, said that a petition circulated
on Rua's behalf garnered 333 signatures within 24 hours. When she slipped a note
under the doors of residents asking for donations to pay for Rua's legal fees,
15 checks totaling $2,400 came in within two hours.

"I have 204 angels behind me," Rua, 43, said as his teary-eyed wife, Liliana
Rosario Rua, and his daughter, Andrea Rua, a freshman at Montgomery College,
nodded. "No matter what happens, I am never going to forget what they did for
me."

Even as anti-immigrant sentiment has swelled in large swaths of the country,
many communities are willing to do battle for individual immigrants who have
become part of their lives. Each year, their lobbying efforts produce scores of
private bills in Congress seeking to grant individual immigrants legal
residency. Few are passed.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) has been one of the leading sponsors of private
bills, with 29 introduced. They've been aimed, she said, "at helping families
who are facing exceptional circumstances. These are people with no criminal
backgrounds, who pay their taxes, who excel in school. In short, they are good
members of the community who would face enormous hardship if deported."

In addition to the private bills, immigration officials also defer deportations
in 500 to 900 cases a year, said Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. "ICE uses discretion on a case-by-case basis as appropriate
and has the authority to grant a deferral of removal action based on the merits
of an individual's case," she said.

Rua, who was born in Peru and came to the United States on a Spanish passport in
1995, has made himself indispensable to residents of the Wisconsin. His
ingenuity has saved the condo thousands of dollars in maintenance and repairs,
they said.

The campaign to help Rua "is not altogether altruistic," said Jerry Pruzan, vice
president of the condo board. "We need him."

Rua said his family received faulty legal advice while petitioning the
government to stay in the country. Rua obtained work authorization through his
wife's application for permanent residency, but when that application was denied
because it had not been filed properly, Rua was told that he would have to
leave.

Rua and Andrea, a scholarship student, have been ordered to present their
airline tickets for departure to authorities by Dec. 14. Rua's wife has a
hearing before an immigration judge this month. Their 9 year-old son, Renzo, was
born here and is a citizen. If the family is forced to leave, Rua and Andrea
would go to Spain, and Liliana and Renzo would go to Peru, where Liliana holds
citizenship.

"We're devastated," Rua said, his voice cracking. "I tell my daughter, 'You
follow the rules, everything will be okay.' She wants to be a dentist, and I am
really proud. But right now, I can't help her. I feel like I [let her down]."

Because Rua and Andrea are citizens of Spain, they entered the country as
tourists without visas on what is known as a visa waiver program. Now that the
petition for permanent residency - filed by Liliana's former employer - has been
denied, the father and daughter are not allowed to contest the deportation order
in court, said Rua's attorney, Julia M. Toro.

"I don't know what I did wrong," said Andrea Rua, 17, who came to the United
States when she was 2. "All I want to do is study and be with my family. I don't
think that is a lot to ask for. I feel people in prison and terrorists have more
options than I do. I can't even see a judge, and I'm a minor."

When Gail Shultie heard about the family's plight, she contacted the one
resident who she thought could help immediately: Inouye.

Besides living in the building, Inouye is a co-sponsor of the DREAM Act, which
would offer a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who were brought to the
United States as children and are attending college or serving in the military.
Democrats plan to re-introduce the DREAM Act during the current lame-duck
session of Congress, but its chances for passage appear slim.

Inouye was sympathetic but told Shultie that it would be best if residents
worked with Maryland's lawmakers. Although Democratic Sens. Benjamin L. Cardin
and Barbara A. Mikulski declined to sponsor a private bill to keep the Ruas in
the country, Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D) has lobbied the Department of Homeland
Security to grant the family a reprieve until Liliana Rosario's mother, a U.S.
citizen, can sponsor her daughter for residency or the Ruas find some other way
to maintain legal status.

If Rua is deported, Shultie said the condo would petition for his return.

Pruzan and his wife, Marcia, said their loyalty to Rua is only natural given his
loyalty to them. The Pruzans recalled how once, past midnight, they discovered a
leak in their apartment. When they called Rua at his home in Gaithersburg, he
had been asleep but came immediately and fixed the problem.

Other residents said Rua knows their building as intimately as others might know
their neighborhoods. If a leak on the second floor was caused by a malfunction
on the 16th floor, with no trouble on any intervening floor, Rua would be the
one to ferret out the problem.

Marcia Weinberg, a board member and resident, said that Rua was once working in
her bathroom when she mentioned that she had to find an electrician to install a
chandelier.

She said that he responded, "Oh, for heaven's sake, I can do that" - and did.

"It is such a broken [immigration] system that you can take people like Antonio
and Liliana and their children and say, 'You're out' and 'We are going to tear
the family apart.' "

As she put her arms around Andrea Rua, she asked: "How does this make America
better?"

vedantams@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

On immigrant life

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 70 words


For 15 years, Marco Antonio Rua has been a  much-loved - and counted-upon -
handyman in the Wisconsin, a 204-unit condominium in North Bethesda.

Immigration authorities have ordered Rua and his daughter to leave the United
States after his family's petition for permanent residency was turned down.

His last day of work was Tuesday. Rua and Post reporter Shankar Vedantam will
answer  reader questions via video today at noon.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Daring to DREAM

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 139 words


Thousands of high-school and college-age student-immigrants are lobbying
Congress, introducing themselves to citizens and performing acts of public
service to draw attention to the DREAM act - a measure that seeks to provide
legal papers for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the country when
they were children. Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid, who relied heavily on
the Latino vote for his narrow re-election victory in Nevada earlier this month,
and current House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) have said they will advance
the DREAM Act in the lame-duck session of Congress. But the bill was blocked
once in the Senate and advocates and critics both say the odds of it passing in
the next Congress are slim, given that a Republican majority in the House is
expected to concentrate on immigration enforcement measures.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Justices expand 'effective counsel';
Lawyers must advise their immigrant clients about deportation risks

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 567 words


Lawyers must advise their immigrant clients facing criminal charges that
pleading guilty could lead to deportation, the Supreme Court decided Tuesday.

The court ruled 7 to 2 that the Sixth Amendment guarantee of an effective
counsel extends to advice about the risk of having to leave the country.

"It is our responsibility under the Constitution to ensure that no criminal
defendant -- whether a citizen or not -- is left to the mercies of incompetent
counsel," Justice John Paul Stevens wrote.

Stevens said the responsibilities for lawyers are heightened because of
congressional crackdowns on immigrants who commit crimes, even relatively minor
ones. "These changes confirm our view that, as a matter of federal law,
deportation is an integral part -- indeed, sometimes the most important part --
of the penalty that may be imposed on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty to
specified crimes," he wrote.

The case before the court involved California truck driver JosÃ© Padilla, who
was considering whether to plead guilty to trafficking in marijuana. Before
agreeing to the plea, he asked his lawyer whether it would affect his status as
a legal permanent resident.

Padilla, a native of Honduras, had been in the United States almost 40 years and
had served in the Army during the Vietnam War. (He shares a name with, but is
not related to, the onetime "enemy combatant" convicted on terrorism charges.)
He said his lawyer told him that he did not have to worry about his immigration
status because he had been in the country so long.

So Padilla pleaded guilty -- and found out that his lawyer was wrong. Padilla's
plea to an aggravated felony left him virtually no defense to deportation once
his jail term ended.

On appeal, Padilla argued that his lawyer's bad advice deprived him of the
constitutional right to effective counsel and that he should be able to withdraw
the plea. The Supreme Court in Kentucky -- where Padilla was arrested -- said a
lawyer is required only to advise his or her client about the direct
consequences of a guilty plea and not collateral issues, such as how it would
affect immigration status.

Tuesday's court majority said that was wrong. "When the deportation consequence
is truly clear, as it was in this case, the duty to give correct advice is
equally clear," Stevens wrote.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. agreed with the outcome of the case but said the
majority went too far in extending the Sixth Amendment and what it requires of
lawyers. Because immigration law is so complex, Alito said, it is enough for a
lawyer to refrain from providing incorrect information and then advise a client
to consult an immigration lawyer about the consequences of a guilty plea. Chief
Justice John G. Roberts Jr. agreed with Alito.

Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas dissented, saying the opinion was
"overkill."

"In the best of all possible worlds, criminal defendants contemplating a guilty
plea ought to be advised of all serious collateral consequences of conviction,
and surely ought not to be misadvised," Scalia wrote. "The Constitution,
however, is not an all-purpose tool for judicial construction of a perfect
world."

Padilla, who has been living in California while awaiting the outcome of his
legal challenges, now returns to the Kentucky Supreme Court to argue that his
lawyer's bad advice means he should be able to withdraw his plea.

The case is Padilla v. Kentucky.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Hispanics new to U.S. likelier to take census;
Participation higher in this group than those who are native-born

BYLINE: Carol Morello

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 732 words


Recent Hispanic immigrants are more likely to return their census questionnaires
than Hispanics born in the United States, according to a new study that suggests
a census campaign targeting Spanish speakers has been wildly successful.

A telephone survey of about 1,000 people conducted in the third week of March by
the Pew Hispanic Center also found that foreign-born Hispanics are less
skeptical that their census information will remain confidential.

The study was released Thursday, which the government dubbed "Census Day" -- the
day by which, officials hoped, people would have filled out their forms and
mailed them in. To encourage participation, the White House released a photo of
President Obama filling out his questionnaire.

The government will continue to promote the census throughout April,
particularly in areas with low response rates. At the end of the month,
officials will compile lists of addresses from which surveys have not been
received by mail. Census-takers will be dispatched to those addresses to try to
get survey questions answered.

Major Hispanic groups have said there is widespread fear among immigrants that
data will be shared with immigration authorities. In response, groups have
stressed the confidentiality of the census in a campaign called "Ya es hora.
Â¡Hagase contar!" or "It's time to be counted."

Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, declared himself "giddy" about the
results.

"It shows the work we have been doing has had an impact," he said of the effort
that enlisted newscasters, entertainers and other prominent Latinos to spread
the message that Hispanics should send in their forms regardless of their legal
status. "It shows that this population understands what we need do as a
community to move forward, to be counted and to be heard."

But, ironically, the survey suggests that the message did not get through so
readily to U.S.-born Hispanics. While 91 percent of the foreign-born said they
had returned their forms or would do so soon, only 78 percent of the U.S.-born
said they would participate. Both figures would be an improvement over the last
census, when 69 percent of Hispanic households returned their forms.

Hispanics are the largest ethnic group in the United States, as well as the
fastest growing. About 35 million were counted in the 2000 Census, and they were
estimated to number 47 million by 2008, or 15 percent of the population.

This year, the Census Bureau mailed bilingual forms to neighborhoods with a
large Hispanic presence. It also spent more than $25 million, about one-fifth of
its total advertising budget, for Spanish-language media.

The sharp focus on messages in Spanish may have created the disparity in how
recent immigrants and natives regard the census.

Maria Teresa Kumar, executive director of Voto Latino, said that recent
immigrants are the main consumers of Spanish-language programs aired on
Univision and Telemundo, which introduced a census-taker as a character in its
top-rated telenovela. Generations born in the United States tend to prefer
English-language media.

"The more acculturated you are, the more you have the same views as the rest of
mainstream America, and a lot of folks are distrustful of government," she said.

The Pew survey also suggests that a census boycott called by some Hispanic
evangelical ministers to protest the lack of immigration reform has been a
failure. Only 16 percent said they had heard calls for a boycott.

"We're not sure why it didn't gain traction," said Mark Hugo Lopez, associate
director of the Pew Hispanic Center. "We know that when it was announced, there
was a very broad effort to counter it."

Carlos Aragon, general manager of Radio Fiesta, which broadcasts in the
Washington area, said many Hispanics consider the boycott "ridiculous." He also
said he hears myths that the Census Bureau will turn in undocumented immigrants
to the authorities.

JosÃ© Robles, director of Hispanic Ministry in the Phoenix Catholic Diocese,
said the concern about information being handed over to authorities is more
pronounced among members of the clergy than parishioners. The diocese has
heavily promoted the census, but Arizonans are among those who are slower to
return forms than the national average.

The states whose response rates are lagging are mostly in the South and
Southwest.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Veteran crime fighter looks out for the homeland

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 331 words


Marcy Forman: Fighting financial and intellectual-property crimes; recently
retired director of the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination
Center; and senior special agent, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

Best known for: As one of the highest-ranking women in law enforcement at the
Department of Homeland Security, Forman spearheaded two major crime-fighting
initiatives: the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center to
combat the growing transnational threat of tainted, substandard and counterfeit
merchandise, and Operation Green Quest, a Treasury Department initiative to
combat terrorist financing after Sept. 11, 2001.

Government service: For 30 years, Forman worked on the front lines and as a
policymaker in the fight against financial crimes, drug cartels and other
illegal activities. She served as the director of the office of investigation
for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the largest investigative
arm of the Department of Homeland Security, before being assigned to run the
National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center. Before to joining
ICE, Forman served in numerous positions with the U.S. Customs Service, as
assistant special agent in charge of the money laundering and narcotics unit in
Houston, and as division director for financial investigations at Customs
Service headquarters in Washington.

Biggest challenge: Staying ahead of the trends and techniques of international
criminal organizations.

Quote: Forman says she had to overcome a number of obstacles as a woman in a
male-dominated profession. "I have an aggressive personality, what would be
described as tough and hard and that would be more acceptable if I were a man,"
she said. "I'm a yes person. When someone says it can't be done, I say don't
give up so easily."

-- From the Partnership for Public Service

For more on Marcy Forman, visit http://washingtonpost.com/fedpage.

Send your nominations for Fed Faces to fedfaces@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; U.s. Immigration And Customs Enforcement

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Taking up arms -- and assimilation

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 749 words


THE LONG WAY HOME

An American Journey From Ellis Island to the Great War

By David Laskin

Harper. 386 pp. $26.99

David Laskin quotes a New York educator named Ellwood P. Cubberley, writing in
1909 about the floodtide of immigration then slapping at American shores: "These
Southern and Eastern Europeans are of a very different type from the Northern
Europeans who preceded them. Illiterate, docile, lacking in self-reliance and
initiative, and not possessing Anglo-Teutonic conceptions of law, order and
government, their coming has corrupted our civic life."

Sound familiar? Americans have always been profoundly ambivalent about
immigration. We cherish our own foreign-born ancestors and then erupt in spasms
of hostility typified by modern Cubberleys such as Lou Dobbs and Pat Buchanan.
In the 1840s the Know Nothing Party denounced Catholic newcomers from Germany
and Ireland; in the 1940s Japanese Americans were interned as security risks.
Contemporary nativists direct their animosity at Hispanics and Muslims, but the
basic argument has not changed: America is now perfect. Time to pull up the
gangplank. The aliens will corrupt our character and our culture.

The haters were wrong then, and they are wrong now. They totally misunderstand
the essential grit and grain of America. We are never perfect, never static,
never finished. We are constantly enriched by new blood, energy and ideas. As
Barack Obama put it in his inaugural address, "Our patchwork heritage is a
strength, not a weakness."

In this compelling book, Laskin makes this same point by following the lives of
12 American doughboys who had been born in Europe and who then returned there to
fight for their adopted country in World War I. It's an imaginative concept, and
Laskin mines family legends and official documents to tell the stories of these
ordinary foot soldiers from Italy and Ireland, Poland and Russia, Slovakia and
Norway.

Ironically, many of them first left home to escape military service (I know this
tale well -- both of my grandfathers came here fleeing the czar's army). Once
here they re-created customs and communities that mirrored life in the Old
Country. There's a legitimate concern today that Spanish-speaking immigrants
don't join the mainstream fast enough, but that's hardly a new story. Joe
Chmielewski never spoke English in Fifficktown, Pa., Laskin writes, but "there
was really no need or opportunity. In the 1910s, everyone he knew or had to deal
with at the mine, at home, in the tavern, in church spoke Polish." In his
Yiddish-speaking Newark, N.J., neighborhood, noted Sam Goldberg, "if a dog came
around he'd have to prove he was Jewish before they let him in."

These immigrants brought their loyalties as well as their languages, and their
politics sometimes conflicted with official policy. The Irish hated the British,
and the Jews hated the Russians, so large elements in both groups sympathized
with the Germans. One American of German ancestry wrote home from the
battlefields of France, "I never know when I might be shooting at one of my own
cousins or uncles." These mixed feelings triggered fears that immigrants would
resist the draft when it was instituted in 1917, but the reverse happened. "The
most remarkable thing is how well and willingly the foreign element has
responded," one government clerk reported. "They seem anxious to serve the
country of their adoption."

At times, the "foreign element" had trouble carrying out their good intentions.
Many were subject to verbal and even physical abuse. Boot camp meant adjusting
to new foods, rituals and idioms: "For a lot of the foreign-born guys," Laskin
writes, "it was like emigrating all over again." But war changed everything. It
gave the foreigners a whole new identity, not just a new uniform. Laskin
describes what happened when these immigrant soldiers deployed to Europe: "Back
home, they were the foreigners, but when a bunch of them sat down together in a
noisy smoky bar full of Aussies and Brits and French and Belgians, the dagos and
yids and hunkies were all Yanks no matter how thick their accents."

Today's immigrants don't become Yanks in the trenches of France. That
transformation occurs in the farmlands of Florida, the factories of
Pennsylvania, the laboratories of California and, sometimes, on the battlefields
of Iraq and Afghanistan. This story, like this country, never ends.

Steven V. Roberts's new book, "From Every End of This Earth," details the lives
of 13 immigrant families in modern America.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Some Hispanics wavering on Obama;
Support in 2008 turns to concern over little action on immigration

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 863 words

DATELINE: AURORA, COLO.


Maria Garcia can rattle off a dozen things that are more important to her than
politics. Her sky-high mortgage payments, for instance. The convenience store
she owns, which isn't making money. And, at this moment, the chili peppers
toasting in the store's kitchen.

"I don't have time to think about politics," she said, rubbing her eyes amid the
caustic fumes. "Ten years ago, I was doing good. But right now, when you have
all these problems, you feel lazy. You can't do anything. Sometimes, it's better
that you have nothing because you just have to make money to eat and to pay
rent."

Garcia was among the 61 percent of Hispanic voters in Colorado who turned out in
2008 to vote for Barack Obama. But her political disengagement now hints at the
difficulty Democrats face in rallying their core constituencies ahead of the
November midterm elections.

Among Hispanics, one concern often voiced is that Obama has not moved quickly on
changing immigration law. He campaigned on the issue two years ago, but he and
his party appear hesitant to take on such a contentious issue soon after the
battle over health-care legislation.

Immigrant advocacy groups have ratcheted up the pressure on lawmakers, saying
they risk losing the support of Hispanic voters if they do not establish a way
for the 12 million people thought to be in the United States illegally to
achieve legal status. They say there could be political consequences in swing
states such as Colorado, where Hispanics made up 13 percent of the electorate in
2008.

A measure that would have created a pathway to citizenship for illegal
immigrants contributed to the downfall of a 2007 bipartisan effort in Congress
to remake the immigration system. But activists argue that disconnected voters
such as Garcia might be motivated to go to the polls this year if lawmakers
appeared poised to take up the issue again.

Indeed, Garcia perks up when the topic of immigration is raised, saying that
from her own experience, she feels a strong kinship with those living and
working here without papers.

A block from Garcia's store, East Colfax Avenue echoes other suburban streets
where immigrant-owned businesses have flowered: lined with faded strip malls,
enlivened by stores selling quinceaÃ±era dresses and SpongeBob SquarePants
piÃ±atas. There are hints of an underground economy as well: check-cashing
stores, pawnshops and street-corner car dealerships that do not check credit.

"The Mexican people here need help," said Juan Luevanos, whose Mexican
restaurant, Real de Minas, on this street is named for the Zacatecas mines where
his family once worked. He thinks that giving illegal immigrants a path to
legalized status would reduce crime and offer a measure of stability to a
community in which many people carry fake IDs and cannot dream of buying a home.

An avowed Democrat, he shrugs when asked if he'll stick by his party this fall.
He voted for Obama in 2008 but now says: "I'm fifty-fifty on him. He doesn't
keep his promises."

The desire among Colorado's Hispanics for immigration-law changes is not limited
to Democrats. Republican Diedra Garcia, president of DRG Construction in nearby
Lakewood, said offering a path to legalization makes good conservative sense. "I
believe [immigrants] are serving a clear economic need," Garcia said. "We need
those resources, and without them I shudder to think what would happen to our
economy."

That position puts her at odds with her party's most vocal strains, a divide
that highlights the potentially toxic nature of the debate for many politicians.

Kelly Standley, a coordinator of one of Colorado's "tea party" groups, also
lives in Aurora. The highly motivated tea party movement nationally is pushing
candidates to take more-conservative stands on a variety of issues, including
immigration, and opposes anything that resembles amnesty. Standley says the
community has been overrun with illegal immigrants; as evidence, he points to
what he sees in his job as a manager at a Family Dollar store.

"If they're paying by credit card, I ask for an ID. Then they hand me a Mexico
ID, and I say, 'Oh no, no, no,' " Standley said. He is also bothered by some of
his customers' desire to speak to him in Spanish. "I can speak it; I just don't
like to," he said.

The economy is paramount for Maria Garcia. Once prosperous, she bought two homes
and the commercial building where she recently opened Florence Mini Mart.

But the mortgages on the homes are now larger than the houses' value. In hopes
of affording the monthly payments, she rented out the homes and moved into an
office in the largely vacant commercial building. Her daughters moved in with
their father, unwilling to live in the empty office, she said. Her savings are
drained, and she is contemplating foreclosure.

Garcia said she thinks that new immigration laws would bring prosperity to the
community by allowing many more people to buy homes and would reward those who
have lived and worked in the shadows.

"Some people have been here a very long time, paying taxes," she said.

About Obama, she said: "Maybe he will do something, because he's getting a lot
of pressure. But I don't know. I can't worry about it right now."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Rob Mattson For The Washington Post; Carmelita
Benitez, left, shown at a Denver protest, said she is optimistic about
immigration law.
IMAGE; Restaurant owner Juan Luevanos said he voted for Obama in 2008, but now
"I'm fifty-fifty on him. He doesn't keep his promises."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's boiling point

BYLINE: Michael Gerson

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 766 words


When Arizona's bitter Republican primary election arrives in August, it is
likely to be 102 degrees in the shade, of which there is little. It is the kind
of weather in which only the hearty and highly motivated venture outdoors --
Gila monsters and Tea Party activists. Which may not be good news for Sen. John
McCain, who is generally disliked by the latter.

A recent poll puts McCain just five points ahead of J.D. Hayworth, a former
congressman and radio talk show host who aspires to be Arizona's Samuel Adams.
McCain operatives dispute that the race is this close, but they cannot dispute
that McCain is running in a political environment in which absolutely anything
could happen to an incumbent.

The Tea Party resists both organization and generalization. But the outcome of
Arizona's Republican primary will do much to define it. The movement is often
called "organic." Both tulips and poison ivy are organic. And Hayworth is a
toxic influence.

Hayworth's 12 years representing parts of the Phoenix suburbs have been
described by his former colleague Dick Armey as a "fairly short, undistinguished
congressional career." But Hayworth attracted national attention after an
epiphany of sorts in 2005. Though he had previously sponsored legislation to
create a guest-worker program, Hayworth became a militant foe of Mexican
immigration. Not just illegal immigration. Hayworth proposed a moratorium on
legal immigration from Mexico. He declared an intention not merely to secure the
border but also to "stand up for our culture" -- which implies that Mexicans
adulterate American culture. Hayworth warned of activists who would create an
Aztec state on the ruins of American sovereignty in the Southwest. He voted
against an anti-immigrant measure -- which, among other provisions, prohibited
religious charities from aiding illegal immigrants -- because he thought the
legislation was too soft.

From 2004 to 2006, Hayworth's share of the vote in some Hispanic-influenced
precincts dropped by more than 20 points, and he was carried away in the
national anti-Republican deluge. Hayworth now presses his anti-immigration
message in a primary challenge to McCain -- contesting for the right to run for
the Senate in a state that is about 18 percent Hispanic. To this appeal,
Hayworth has added a "birther" message accusing President Obama of "identity
theft." Here he is on legalizing gay marriage: "I guess that would mean if you
really had affection for your horse, I guess you could marry your horse."

Tea Party leaders have been understandably reluctant to endorse a candidate
likely to embarrass any movement elastic enough to include Hayworth. Both Rep.
Michele Bachmann and Sen. Jim DeMint have declared themselves officially neutral
in the Arizona Republican primary. Sarah Palin has campaigned for McCain.

This skepticism is compounded by Hayworth's congressional record, which puts him
in a select group among would-be Tea Party heroes. He is, I would bet, the only
Tea Party candidate with a history of hosting fundraisers in lobbyist Jack
Abramoff's sports skyboxes. How many other Tea Party revolutionaries have also
been enthusiastic legislative earmarkers, or voted for the Medicare prescription
drug benefit, or supported the 2005 highway bill, which included the "bridge to
nowhere"?

There are reasons McCain is politically endangered. He is the Senate's most
gifted practitioner of sudden, disproportionate anger. He often seems overly
impressed by his own virtue. Many in Washington and Arizona would pay good money
to see him humbled. His epic service is matched by epic flaws -- but an
insufficient commitment to fiscal conservatism is not among them.

A primary loss might be good for McCain's soul. But it would be bad for his
party and for the country. At his best, McCain is precisely what a senator
should be -- independent, passionate, unawed by power, unmoved by influence. He
has quickened national debates on torture, the environment, immigration,
military strategy in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the budget process. He now stands
accused of sidling to the right during a Republican primary -- of which he is
guilty. But events of the past year have moved Republicans of every variety to
the right, in reaction to the vast Obama overreach.

In contrast, Hayworth symbolizes the worst excesses of the Tea Party movement,
without having displayed any of its redeeming fiscal virtues while in office.
His candidacy presents a test. If the movement embraces politicians such as
Hayworth, it will not only prove itself extreme; it will prove itself gullible.

mgerson@globalengage.org

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Ariz. governor signs tough immigration bill;
OBAMA CALLS IT 'MISGUIDED' Justice Dept. will watch implementation, he says

BYLINE: Anne E. Kornblut and Spencer S. Hsu

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1110 words


Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed into law Friday the most restrictive immigration
bill in the country, setting the stage for a showdown with the Obama
administration and reigniting a divisive national debate less than seven months
before congressional midterm elections.

Brewer, a Republican facing a stiff primary challenge, said she had no choice
but to act because Washington's failure to address the issue had effectively
left border protection to the states. "We in Arizona have been more than patient
waiting for Washington to act," she said, as hundreds of demonstrators gathered
outside her Phoenix office. "But decades of federal inaction and misguided
policy have created an unacceptable situation."

Even before it was signed, President Obama criticized the Arizona law, which
requires police to question anyone who appears to be in the country illegally.
Obama called the effort "misguided" and directed the Justice Department to
monitor its implementation, warning that it could violate citizens' civil
rights. Immediate legal challenges were expected from outside groups.

Obama cited the measure as a sign that Congress must act swiftly on overhauling
immigration, saying failure to do so would  "only open the door to
irresponsibility by others."

With the stroke of a pen, Brewer unleashed the passions of activists and
politicians on both sides of the issue. Hispanics across the country, a key
political bloc, promised an energetic push to elect Democrats in November. House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), an advocate of immigration reform, issued a
statement describing the law as "harsh."

The response among national Republican lawmakers was more muted, reflecting a
split over whether to pursue stricter immigration laws or to court the expanding
pool of immigrant voters.

Under Arizona's new law, to take effect in 90 days, being in the country
illegally will be a state crime punishable by up to six months in jail, and
legal immigrants will be required to carry paperwork proving their status.
Arizona police will generally be required to question anyone they "reasonably
suspect" of being undocumented -- a provision that critics argue will lead to
widespread racial profiling, but that supporters insist will give authorities
the flexibility to enforce existing immigration laws.

Obama's opposition

On Friday, Obama voiced opposition to the bill for the first time at a
naturalization ceremony for two dozen foreign-born members of the U.S. military.
He urged the country to "choose a different future" than the one envisioned in
the Arizona legislation. Although he said the Justice Department would "closely
monitor" developments, Obama stopped short of demanding immediate intervention.

Joining Obama at the Rose Garden event was Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano, who vetoed similar bills repeatedly during two terms as Arizona's
Democratic governor. She said she did so because "they would have diverted
critical law enforcement resources from the most serious threats to public
safety."

Recent events have underscored Arizona's role as a roiling cauldron of
immigration politics: Brewer has been under pressure to sign the bill from state
Treasurer Dean Martin, who is considered her biggest threat in the Aug. 24
Republican primary. Sen. John McCain (R), in his own tough primary for
reelection, only recently came out in support of the bill -- and, on Friday, did
not issue a statement. His opponent, former congressman J.D. Hayworth, praised
Brewer in a statement and attacked McCain "and others serving in Washington [for
having] alternated between inaction and amnesty."

The measure goes far beyond a controversial federal program that provides grants
and training to about 70 state and local police agencies to enforce immigration
laws. Frederick County, Md., and several jurisdictions in Virginia, including
Prince William County, have joined that 287(g) program, which is named for a
section of federal law. Under another program, state and local jurisdictions in
the Washington area and nationwide check fingerprints of people booked into
local jails against federal immigration databases.

Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), having concluded that talks to
advance a bipartisan immigration bill were stalled, recently told Sens. Charles
E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) that if they cannot strike a
deal within three weeks, Democrats will bring their own bill forward, aides and
lobbyists said.

Many lawmakers on both sides, familiar with how treacherous immigration reform
proved when President George W. Bush sought it and failed, say they are
uncertain about its prospects.

Some Democrats have calculated that even if an immigration bill fails, a debate
on it could rally their base and mobilize Hispanic voters against GOP lawmakers
in some districts. And while it could also energize Republican voters, some
Democrats said the Arizona bill has also provided them with the opportunity to
put Republicans on the defensive nationally.

Earlier attempts

The legislation makes Arizona the first state to criminalize illegal immigration
by defining unlawful presence as trespassing, according to the National Council
of State Legislatures. Between 2007 and 2009, California, Colorado and Texas
considered similar proposals but killed them.

However, frustration in the states continues to drive legislatures to pass a
patchwork of laws each year, some cracking down on illegal immigrants and others
seeking to prevent exploitation of them by human traffickers and unscrupulous
employers. The NCSL estimates that about 1,400 bills are introduced each year.

"There's a huge concern, and states have been down this path before, where they
have been taken to court and that has been very costly. . . . This will be very
much a wait-and-see approach," said Ann Morse, director of the NSCL immigration
policy project.

The law could also have diplomatic and economic repercussions. The Mexican
Senate voted unanimously to urge Brewer to veto the bill, saying it could lead
to persecution and harassment of Hispanics, and the country's Ministry of
Foreign Affairs expressed great concern and said the measure could harm
cross-border relations "for generations."

At the White House and the Justice Department, lawyers on Friday began examining
the Arizona law to see if questions about racial profiling might require federal
intervention. The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division and its Civil
Division, which represents the United States in civil litigation matters, are
expected to conduct a joint review.

Staff writers Jerry Markon, Martin Weil, Chris Cillizza and Ben Pershing
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ross D. Franklin/associated Press; At left, Jennifer Luna,
Jakleline Castro and Mayvi Garcia protest Arizona's new immigration law. Right,
Ernie Getford holds a sign in support of the bill during a rally in Phoenix.
IMAGE; Nick Oza/arizona Republic Via Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Democrats work to salvage climate proposal in Senate;
Graham wants energy to be addressed before immigration

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1205 words


The current predicament of the Senate climate and energy proposal, which was
attractive enough to lure the leaders of not only the Christian Coalition but
also ConocoPhillips, Exelon and Duke Energy to a now-canceled bill launch
Monday, underscores the fragility of its support.

The same political forces that have repeatedly shunted climate change to the
back burner -- partisanship and its low rank on voters' priority list -- have
made passing a bill a herculean task. It encountered another hurdle this weekend
when Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), one of its authors along with Sens. John F.
Kerry (D-Mass.) and Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), said he was abandoning it
unless climate legislation moved ahead of immigration on the Senate calendar.

For months, the three senators tried to assemble an inside-the-Beltway pact on
climate change by reconciling the needs of the business and environmental
communities. Now the fate of the bill rests on the prospects of a very different
deal: one between Graham and Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), who
sees immigration reform as more essential than energy to his reelection bid.

"I've got some political courage, but I'm not stupid," Graham said in an
interview Saturday. "The only reason I went forward is, I thought we had a shot
if we got the business and environmental community behind our proposal, and
everybody was focused on it. What's happened is that firm, strong commitment
disappeared."

By Sunday morning, Kerry and Lieberman -- who does not work on the Jewish
Sabbath and therefore was not making calls until Saturday night -- were working
on a rapprochement between Reid and Graham on energy legislation, called the
American Power Act. White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel called Graham over
the weekend, while energy czar Carol Browner called Kerry and Lieberman,
according to an administration official.

"He's assured me he'll do it before immigration reform, if it's ready,"
Lieberman said of Reid. "This certainly is not over, and to me, we've got a good
bill."

In some ways, the problem that proponents of climate legislation face is that
they're pursuing a policy goal that is not much of a hot-button political issue.
Environmental activists had a well-attended event Sunday on the Mall, with
musical stars Sting and John Legend, but immigration reform advocates are likely
to dwarf that turnout with dozens of rallies across the country Saturday.

Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), who spent months drafting language to protect the
U.S. manufacturing sector as part of a climate deal, said he puts passage of the
bill "on my list of top five priorities," especially since Ohio is helping lead
the country in the production of jobs in the solar and wind industry. But when
he goes home to his state to talk to constituents about the issues they care
about most, "nobody talks about this. I never hear about it."

As a result, the bill's authors focused on doing what amounted to a legislative
bank shot, lining up support among business interests the bill would impact, in
an effort to get them to convince wavering senators to embrace the package. They
held dozens of closed-door meetings with groups ranging from the American Gas
Association to the National Mining Association and the Portland Cement
Association, including one meeting this spring in which 30 officials from
different business groups gave what one participant described as "their elevator
pitch" for what they wanted in the bill.

"These three have gone out of their way to be engaging, to be constructive in
listening," said Bruce Josten, executive vice president for government affairs
at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

The senators doled out rewards to different groups in order to bring them on
board, providing more free pollution allowances to the utilities sector, even if
that meant less money to protect tropical forests overseas; ensuring that 37.5
percent of the revenue generated from new oil and gas drilling offshore would go
to the coastal states closest to the drilling.

The horse trading infuriated some environmentalists -- Clean Air Watch president
Frank O'Donnell said the bill "ought to be named 'Let's Make a Deal,' " -- but
it helped neutralize some corporate opposition and brought on board influential
backers such as the Edison Electric Institute and three of the nation's five
biggest oil companies.

"It has the broadest support that's ever come together for an energy and climate
bill before," Lieberman said, adding he is convinced several business leaders
"will be our most effective advocates in convincing the undecided senators to
get off the fence" in the weeks ahead.

Roberta Combs, president and CEO of Christian Coalition of America, said, "It
doesn't make sense to move energy to the back burner in Congress when America is
hemorrhaging oil money to nations that don't like us, and when so many families
could benefit from jobs if we pursue a made in America energy plan."

Graham said he worried his colleagues were being "overly optimistic" in
describing business support for the measure, and he lashed out at the decision
by anonymous administration officials to tell Fox News earlier this month that
they opposed the idea of a fee on the transport sector linked to the price of
carbon, which quickly became labeled a gas tax. "I should have walked when I saw
that story," he said.

An administration official, who asked not to be identified, said the White House
and Graham simply had a difference of opinion on the issue, in part because the
administration did not see winning the support of oil companies "as the holy
grail" of climate and energy legislation.

After Graham's announcement, conservatives were quick to accuse him of seeking
what Patrick Creighton of the conservative Institute for Energy Research called
"an easy way out of being part of one of the most economically devastating
pieces of legislation this country has ever seen, no more, no less."

But Graham, the one Republican who has been willing to work with Democrats on
not only climate change but immigration and the closing of the detention
facility at Guantanamo, just appears to be trying to limit the number of fronts
on which he is confronting his party's leadership. And Kerry, who has had 270
individual meetings and phone calls with his Senate colleagues on the climate
and energy bill, said Sunday he believes the key players can get past the "minor
hiccup" of the latest climate skirmish.

"We're going to get this done," Kerry said, adding that administration officials
"want this done, and they want it done next. But they also want to see we've got
something real."

"I think we're on a good track," he said, adding that what might seem like
inside deals to outsiders is just the legislative process. "You have to have
meetings, you have to sit in the room and listen to them. That's representative
democracy."

To do that, said the League of Conservation Voters' Gene Karpinski, the power
brokers on Capitol Hill and in the White House will need to have a few more
closed-door meetings.

"All of this needs to be resolved on the highest levels to bring it back
together, which we see as both doable and necessary," Karpinski said.

Staff writer Steven Mufson contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Alex Wong/getty Images; Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), center,
is threatening to abandon climate and energy legislation that he worked on with
Sens. Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), left, and John F. Kerry (D-Mass.) because
Democrats have placed a priority on a new immigration measure.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

The real culprits on immigration

BYLINE: David S. Broder

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 657 words


Many in the media, including my Post colleagues Eugene Robinson, Richard Cohen
and Michael Gerson have written powerful and appropriate columns decrying the
action of the Arizona legislature and Gov. Jan Brewer in passing and signing a
punitive law aimed at illegal immigrants.

If the law goes into effect despite promised constitutional challenges, local
police in Arizona will be able to stop people they suspect may not belong  in
this country and require them to produce papers attesting that they are legal
citizens. Jail terms for trespassing await anyone without the documentation.

The law is every bit as bad as others have said -- but it is hardly a surprise.
What has been missing from the discussion is any apparent recognition of those
responsible for killing the last effort at comprehensive federal immigration
reform that would have headed off the need for this kind of punitive state
action.

It was only three years ago that the action was stymied by a Senate filibuster
and the impatience of Majority Leader Harry Reid to move on to other topics. At
the time, Sen. Edward Kennedy, then as always trying to fix the broken system,
asked what opponents of the comprehensive legislation that died that June were
in favor of.

"What are they going to do with the 12 million who are undocumented here?"
Kennedy demanded to know. "Send them back to countries around the world? Develop
a type of Gestapo here to seek out these people that are in the shadows? What's
their alternative?"

Now we know. If it's not exactly "Gestapo" tactics, the Arizona legislation
certainly smacks of police-state methods that inevitably will involve racial
profiling of Hispanics, no matter what preventive measures the governor says she
will take.

The bill that died in Congress had been hammered out over many months by a
bipartisan group of senators, including both the Hispanic members of the Senate
and both the Republican senators from Arizona.

But once the bill hit the floor, it was attacked from both flanks. The most
conservative Republicans -- Jim DeMint of South Carolina, David Vitter of
Louisiana and Jeff Sessions of Alabama -- led the assault. They were joined by
some civil libertarians and allies of organized labor who were dissatisfied with
the bill's protections for guest workers. Democrat Byron Dorgan of North Dakota
repeatedly tried to gut the guest-worker program before finally succeeding by
one vote on his third effort.

With Reid showing increasing impatience over a debate that began on May 21, the
Senate conducted three cloture votes on June 7 and each time came up short.
Carrying out his threat, Reid pulled the bill off the floor, while Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell protested. "I think we're giving up on this bill too
soon," McConnell said. "There are a number of Republicans who are prepared to
vote for cloture as soon as they believe their colleagues on this side of the
aisle have had a reasonable opportunity to have offered and voted upon
amendments they think would improve the bill."

The next week, President George W. Bush journeyed to Capitol Hill and pleaded
with Senate Republicans to renew the effort. More bipartisan talks ensued and
the result was a second bill, this one adding a mandatory $4 billion border
security section to the previous provisions centered on tougher enforcement,
plus a path to citizenship for the illegal immigrants already living here.

But when it came to the floor, cloture again failed, this time by 46 to 53 -- 14
votes short of the 60 it needed. Democrats split 33 to 15 in favor of ending the
debate while Republicans voted 37 to 12 to continue talking and amending, and
the two independent members split.

That ended the last effort by Congress to meet the federal responsibility for
managing immigration. The states -- not just Arizona but all of them -- are
ill-equipped to solve the problem.

The blame for this mess rests with those who killed that bill.

davidbroder@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Joshua Lott/reuters; Demonstrators rally outside the Arizona
state Capitol on Sunday to protest the state's new immigration law.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Trio accused of swindling immigrants;
Citizenship, health scheme Victims lost $100,000, Montgomery police say

BYLINE: Matt Zapotosky and Dan Morse

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 622 words


To some  undocumented immigrants in Montgomery County, Erlinda Sandra Marin was
a friendly neighborhood doctor who, for a fee, could help them on the path to
citizenship. They might have to kick in a little cash to her daughter (who did
the fingerprint work) and another person (an immigration agent), but when all
was said and done, Marin promised to deliver the legal paperwork they needed to
live in the United States.

Problem was, she never did, according to police. Authorities say she and her
accomplices bilked at least five immigrants out of nearly $100,000, and there
could be many more victims.

On Wednesday, Marin, 52, who police say is not a licensed doctor, was arrested
and charged with theft, running a theft scheme and practicing medicine without a
license, court records show. Her daughter, Sandra Marin Rivera, 25, and the man
accused of posing as an immigration agent, Robert Fred Mejia, 28, were charged
with similar offenses in connection with the scheme, which ran from about 2006
to last year, court records show.

Mejia lives in Germantown and Rivera and Marin at separate residences in
Gaithersburg. None could be reached for comment Thursday. A man who answered a
phone listed in Mejia's name hung up on a reporter, and no one answered repeated
calls at the homes of Rivera and Marin.

Mejia and Marin remain jailed on $200,000 bond; Rivera has been released after
posting a preliminary bond. Prosecutor Stephen Chaikin told Montgomery District
Court Judge Patricia Mitchell that the suspects stole  from as many as 400
people and that more than $1 million may be involved.

"This is an organized theft scheme, with elements of extortion, targeting
vulnerable victims who needed medical care and victims who were interested in
obtaining citizenship," Chaikin said in court Thursday, according to a copy of
his remarks.

In court, the prosecutor also highlighted the results of search warrants at
Mejia's home: shirts and hats labeled with "ICE," which  stands for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.  They also found a "U.S. Immigration
officer" decal and an "ICE Special Agent" badge, Chaikin said.

At  Marin's home, Chaikin said in court, detectives found boxes of medical
records and immigration  forms. At Rivera's  home, detectives found a  CD with
the names of nearly 400 people who might  have gotten caught up in the scheme,
Chaikin told the judge.

Police were tipped off by a staff member at Catholic Charities, which provides
social services in Montgomery.

The staffer, who works closely with immigrants, told an officer that a woman who
did not have a medical license was providing physical therapy, medicine and
general treatment for immigrants with health problems and that she was offering
citizenship in exchange for  cash.

The victims, four of whom are from Guatemala and one from El Salvador, provided
similar stories to investigators. They met Marin first for  medical treatment
out of her Gaithersburg home. Marin told them that for a large fee -- always
more than $10,000, once as much as $27,000 -- she could help them obtain legal
documentation to stay in the country and she could help them move their families
to the United States legally, prosecutors said. Cpl. Dan Friz, a police
spokesman, said investigators encourage others who might have been victimized to
contact  police at 240-773-8477. He said local officers are not interested in
investigating victims' immigration status.

"That is not our goal. What we want folks to be able to do is come forward and
get their crime reported without that fear that they're going to be investigated
for that," he said. "Regardless of their status in the country, they're still
victims of crimes."

Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

For immigration, students take toughest course: action

BYLINE: David Montgomery

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1377 words


Gaby Pacheco and Felipe Matos, a couple of high-achieving college students from
Miami, stand dumbfounded at the corner of 14th and N streets NW.

The plastic side window of their road-weary Ford RV has been slid wide open. It
was closed when they parked it at midday a few hours before. Missing from
inside: five laptops, a GPS unit, cellphone chargers.

"They disconnected us from the world," Matos says, sounding awed at the surgical
daylight work of unknown D.C. smash-and-grabbers this past Tuesday.

It's not the Washington welcome they imagined on Jan. 1 when they began their
four-month, 1,500-mile odyssey to deliver a message to President Obama and fire
up the next phase of the immigration reform movement.

Matos, Pacheco and two fellow students on leave from Miami Dade College have
walked the entire way. The Trail of Dreams, they call it. The RV is their
support vehicle. The computers were how they documented their journey on
Facebook and Twitter, gathered 30,000 signatures to bring to the president and
marshaled support and shelter along the way.

Pacheco uses her dying cellphone to call the police. The dispatcher asks her
name. She hesitates. She can't help it. She's reflexively furtive, even after
years of training herself to embrace, even proclaim, her identity and peculiar
status.

The irony of the moment makes her smile. An illegal immigrant calling the
police.

"Imagine if we were in Arizona now," Matos says. "We wouldn't be calling because
we'd be so scared."

"But this is a 'Secure Community,' " Pacheco reminds him, referring to the
federal program being implemented in local jurisdictions to streamline the
process of deporting illegal immigrants convicted of serious crimes.

Mixed with their caution is an odd eagerness for their encounter with law
enforcement. An hour passes and no officers come, so the group drives the RV to
the police station on V Street NW. The station has a poster on the wall in
Spanish, urging participation in the 2010 Census.

"We're students and we're undocumented," Pacheco tells the desk officer.

"I understand totally," he says with polite disinterest, then takes detailed
notes on the theft.

* * *

The students have something to say, but will they be heard?

Arizona's tough new law on illegal immigrants is everybody's preoccupation as
their journey nears its end Saturday afternoon. The Trail of Dreams walk was
their idea, but along the way they've been supported by such groups as the
Florida Immigrant Coalition. The students will lead a march to Lafayette Park,
where they will help preside over a rally expected to draw thousands in front of
the White House to advocate for immigration reform. It's a safe bet all things
Arizona will be jeered.

As the national debate grows palpably more bitter and polarized, Pacheco and
Matos are the face of the most sympathetic segment of the illegal immigrant
population. Theirs is the image that supporters shrewdly promote to advance
their movement, and that even some opponents find difficult to categorically
condemn. They were brought to this country as children -- Pacheco at 7 from
Ecuador, Matos at 14 from Brazil -- and have made the most of American
opportunity. They earned good grades and etched long rÃ©sumÃ©s of
extracurricular activities. Matos, 24, who has been ranked one of the nation's
top community college students in academics, is studying economics and wants to
be a teacher; Pacheco, 25, after earning three community college degrees, wants
to start a music therapy program for autistic children.

As illegal immigrants, they don't qualify for student aid and have trouble
affording four-year colleges. And they can't turn their studies into careers.

"What you see is the all-American girl," Pacheco says. "Orchestra,
cross-country, basketball, ROTC."

Not everybody sees that girl. Her family in Miami is fighting deportation.

An estimated 65,000 illegal immigrants graduate from high school each year and
find themselves in similar circumstances.

"Nobody feels good about the situation these kids are in," says Ira Mehlman,
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which advocates
for reduced immigration. "It was the decision of their parents to violate the
law that put their children in this difficult situation."

When parents violate other laws, such as paying taxes, no one suggests the
consequences should be mitigated because of the effect on the children, Mehlman
and other critics say.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
favors tighter restrictions, says there might be a case for a narrow measure to
benefit this "most sympathetic group of illegals" but not the adults who broke
the law. For now, he says, pro-reform activists "use them as poster children for
the other 11 million illegal immigrants."

* * *

Walking north on Route 1, the students from Miami reached the outskirts of
Alexandria in the rain Monday afternoon.

A truck driver named Carlos Soliz stood by the side of the road wearing a cowboy
hat, strumming his guitar and singing a greeting to the walkers.

They had trekked through sunshine and snow, crashed in churches and on
activists' couches, told their stories hundreds of times.

Besides Pacheco and Matos, there were Carlos Roa, 22, brought by his parents
from Caracas, Venezuela, at 2; and Juan Rodriguez, 20, who was brought from
Bogota, Colombia, when he was 6 -- and who last year became the only one of the
four to obtain legal residency.

"I'm Carlos Roa," Roa begins. "I'm undocumented, and I'm not afraid."

Not afraid. But wary. When an American-flag-waving delegation of their
Alexandria hosts, Tenants and Workers United, briefly marches in a lane of
traffic, blocking cars, the trekkers stick law-abidingly to the sidewalk.

Roa remembers first becoming acutely aware of his separate status -- living a
different reality -- when he graduated from high school and the assistant
principal, whom he considered a mentor, asked what he planned to do.

"Join the military," Roa said, though he knew it wasn't true. Illegal immigrants
can't joint the military. He couldn't admit to the assistant principal that he
was an undocumented person.

"Venezuela would be a strange land if I was deported," Roa says. "I'm an
American."

Pacheco felt the isolation of her status in high school. It prompted her to
"come out of the closet" as an illegal immigrant in 10th grade, she says, and
spurred her to overcompensate by taking every Advanced Placement class and
after-school activity she could manage, in case such opportunities suddenly
disappeared.

* * *

A proposal known as the Dream Act, designed to offer a path to citizenship for
students like the trekkers, has bipartisan support in the House and the Senate
but has been ensnared in the politics of immigration. Last week Sens. Richard J.
Durbin (D-Ill.) and Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind.) called on Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano to defer action against immigrants who would qualify
for Dream Act benefits.

As of Friday, the trekkers were about four miles short of completing their
odyssey. They had made it on foot as far as Chirilagua, the Salvadoran-inflected
neighborhood of Alexandria, where they were feted Monday evening by more than
200 people at the headquarters of Tenants and Workers United.

It's been a busy week. They requested a meeting with Obama. The White House
countered by offering a meeting with senior adviser Valerie Jarrett. The
trekkers turned it down. They said they had believed in Obama's campaign
promises to support the Dream Act and immigration reform, "so we want to talk to
him," Pacheco says.

They drove into Washington on Wednesday to try to deliver to the White House a
sample of their petition asking Obama to stop the deportation of students like
them. A uniformed Secret Service agent declined to accept the envelope.

On Saturday morning, they will walk the last four miles from Alexandria to the
White House.

Organizers of the rally say that "dozens" of protesters who are citizens will
commit civil disobedience and risk arrest to call attention to the cause.

That's a step too far for the undocumented trekkers from Miami.

"We don't want to do anything to make us seem radical," Pacheco says. "We want
to show our love and all our passion and our desire to stay in the country."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sarah L. Voisin/the Washington Post; A RALLY CRY: Carlos Roa,
22, center, and other immigration advocates near the White House. Roa and three
others walked 1,500 miles to spur reform.
IMAGE; Photos By Sarah L. Voisin/the Washington Post; DELIVERING A MESSAGE: Four
students, including Gaby Pacheco, 25, and Felipe Matos, 24, right, walked 1,500
miles from Florida to Washington to advocate for immigration reform. On
Saturday, the students will help preside over a big rally near the White House.
IMAGE; ACCESS DENIED: Pacheco, right, and Juan Rodriguez, center, tried to leave
a petition for President Obama but was told to mail it.
IMAGE; ON A LONG TREK: At the National Press Club, Pacheco talks about her life
since being brought to the U.S. from Ecuador at age 7.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

5 Myths about immigration

BYLINE: Doris Meissner

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1373 words


Despite the fact that we are a nation of immigrants -- or perhaps because of it
-- immigration continues to be one of America's most contentious topics. The new
law in Arizona authorizing police to arrest individuals who cannot show
documents proving that they are in the country legally has set off a fresh bout
of acrimony. But as in the past, much of the debate is founded on mythology.

Immigrants take jobs from American workers.

1 Although immigrants account for 12.5 percent of the U.S. population, they make
up about 15 percent of the workforce. They are overrepresented among workers
largely because the rest of our population is aging: Immigrants and their
children have accounted for 58 percent of U.S. population growth since 1980.
This probably won't change anytime soon. Low U.S. fertility rates and the
upcoming retirement of the baby boomers mean that immigration is likely to be
the only source of growth in what we call the "prime age" workforce -- workers
ages 25 to 55 -- in the decades ahead. As record numbers of retirees begin
drawing Social Security checks, younger immigrant workers will be paying taxes,
somewhat easing the financial pressures on the system.

Moreover, immigrants tend to be concentrated in high- and low-skilled
occupations that complement -- rather than compete with -- jobs held by native
workers. And the foreign-born workers who fill lower-paying jobs are typically
first-hired/first-fired employees, allowing employers to expand and contract
their workforces rapidly. As a result, immigrants experience higher employment
than natives during booms -- but they suffer higher job losses during downturns,
including the current one.

It's true that an influx of new workers pushes wages down, but immigration also
stimulates growth by creating new consumers, entrepreneurs and investors. As a
result of this growth, economists estimate that wages for the vast majority of
American workers are slightly higher than they would be without immigration.
U.S. workers without a high school degree experience wage declines as a result
of competition from immigrants, but these losses are modest, at just over 1
percent. Economists also estimate that for each job an immigrant fills, an
additional job is created.

Immigration is at an all-time high, and most new immigrants came illegally.

2. The historic high came more than a century ago, in 1890, when immigrants made
up 14.8 percent of our population. Today, about two-thirds of immigrants are
here legally, either as naturalized citizens or as lawful permanent residents,
more commonly known as "green card" holders. And of the approximately 10.8
million immigrants who are in the country illegally, about 40 percent arrived
legally but overstayed their visas.

It's worth noting that although the unauthorized immigrant population includes
more people from Mexico than from any other country, Mexicans are also the
largest group of lawful immigrants. As for the flow of illegal immigrants,
apprehensions along the U.S.-Mexico border have declined by more than 50 percent
over the past four years, while increases in the size of the illegal population,
which had been growing by about 500,000 a year for more than a decade, have
stopped. This decline is largely due to the recession, but stepped-up border
enforcement is playing a part.

Today's immigrants are not integrating into American life like past waves did.

 3. The integration of immigrants remains a hallmark of America's vitality as a
society and a source of admiration abroad, as it has been throughout our
history. Although some people complain that today's immigrants are not
integrating into U.S. society as quickly as previous newcomers did, the same
charge was leveled at virtually every past wave of immigrants, including the
large numbers of Germans, Irish and Italians who arrived in the 19th and early
20th centuries.

Today, as before, immigrant integration takes a generation or two. Learning
English is one key driver of this process; the education and upward mobility of
immigrants' children is the other. On the first count, today's immigrants
consistently seek English instruction in such large numbers that adult-education
programs cannot meet the demand, especially in places such as California. On the
second count, the No Child Left Behind Act has played a critical role in helping
educate immigrant children because it holds schools newly accountable for
teaching them English.

However, the unauthorized status of millions of foreign-born immigrants can slow
integration in crucial ways. For example, illegal immigrants are ineligible for
in-state tuition at most public colleges and universities, putting higher
education effectively out of their reach. And laws prohibiting unauthorized
immigrants from getting driver's licenses or various professional credentials
can leave them stuck in jobs with a high density of other immigrants and unable
to advance.

Cracking down on illegal border crossings will make us safer.

4. The job of protecting the nation's borders is immense, encompassing nearly
7,500 miles of land borders, 12,380 miles of coastline and a vast network of sea
ports, international airports, ports of entry along the Mexican and Canadian
borders and visa-issuing consulates abroad.

Since Sept. 11, 2001, we have dramatically strengthened our borders through the
use of biometrics at ports of entry, secure cargo-shipment systems, intelligence
gathering, integrated databases and increased international cooperation. The
Border Patrol has nearly doubled in size in the past five years, to more than
20,000 agents. The Department of Homeland Security says it is on schedule to
meet congressional mandates for southwestern border enforcement, including
fence-building. And cooperation with the Mexican government has improved
significantly.

Still, our southwest border is more a classic law enforcement challenge than a
front line in the war on terrorism. Antiterrorism measures rely heavily on
intelligence gathering and clandestine efforts that are unrelated to border
enforcement.

The seasoned enforcement officials I have spoken with all contend that if we
provided enough visas to meet the economy's demand for workers, border agents
would be freed to focus on protecting the nation from truly dangerous
individuals and activities, such as drug-trafficking, smuggling and cartel
violence.

Immigration reform cannot happen in an election year.

 5. The politics of immigration can be explosive and can chase lawmakers away,
especially as elections near, with the result that Congress infrequently and
reluctantly updates immigration laws. However, all the significant immigration
bills enacted in recent decades were passed in election years, often at the last
minute and after fractious debates.

This list dates back to the Refugee Act of 1980, which established our system
for humanitarian protection and refugee and asylum admissions. Next came the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which made it illegal to hire
unauthorized immigrants and provided amnesty for 2.7 million illegal immigrants.
The Immigration Act of 1990 increased the number of visas allotted to highly
skilled workers. And the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act charged immigration agencies with implementing significant
new law enforcement mandates.

Legislative attempts to make urgently needed changes fizzled in the House in
2005 and in the Senate in 2006 and 2007, and the to-do list for this Congress is
substantial. But ruling out immigration reform, whether because Congress has
other priorities or because it's an election year, would be a mistake. The
outline for immigration legislation that Sen. Charles Schumer (N.Y.) and his
Democratic colleagues unveiled last week, together with the uproar over the
Arizona law, may help convince lawmakers that there's no time like the present.

Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, served as
commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1993 to
2000. She will be online Monday, May 3, at 11 a.m. ET to chat. Submit your
questions and comments before or during the discussion.

Want to challenge everything you think you know? Visit the "Five Myths" archive.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

The Week That Was

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW05

LENGTH: 261 words

Wednesday 5

Man robbed during chat line meet-up

A 28-year-old Prince William County man who agreed to meet another man in
Manassas after they messaged on a cellphone chat line was robbed of cash by two
men at gunpoint. The incident occurred April 12, two days before D.C. middle
school principal Brian Betts reportedly agreed to meet a man he had met on a
phone chat line, Prince William police said. Betts was killed in his home, and
three teenagers have been charged with murder.



Friday 7

County's immigration law again a hot topic

The controversial immigration legislation passed last month in Arizona has
renewed focus on a similar ordinance approved by the Prince William County board
three years ago. The preliminary results of a University of Virginia study
indicate that, in Prince William, the initial fears about racial profiling have
not been realized. The study also said that it seems unlikely that the county's
drop in violent crime was because of the policy, because illegal immigrants make
up a small percentage of those arrested for such crimes. Board of County
Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large), however, called the policy a
success, saying it has reduced crime, neighborhood complaints and the number of
illegal immigrants using county services such as public schools. Opponents of
the ordinance say it caused immigrants to flee the county, leaving neighborhoods
with vacant houses and sowing distrust of authorities without making much
difference in crime.

For these and other articles, visit www.washingtonpost.com/princewilliam.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

First ladies get a firsthand lesson about immigration

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear and Michael Birnbaum

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 823 words


As much as they might want to defer the conversation, the politically charged
issue of illegal immigration continues to dog members of the Obama
administration.

On Wednesday, with TV cameras rolling during an event to promote healthy eating,
a second-grader at a Silver Spring elementary school asked first lady Michelle
Obama why the president was "taking everybody away that doesn't have papers."

Sitting in front of a dozen schoolchildren, with the first lady of Mexico by her
side, Obama told the girl: "That's something that we have to work on, right? To
make sure that people can be here with the right kind of papers."

"But my mom doesn't have any papers," the student blurted as soon as the first
lady had finished.

In an instant, the spontaneous exchange crystallized the power of the
immigration debate, sparking hours of cable news chatter, a rolling Twitter
conversation and urgent questions about what, if anything, might happen to the
girl's mother as a result of the unscripted moment.

On the day of a carefully choreographed state dinner with the Mexican president,
it was another reminder of outside factors intruding on the Obama
administration's careful and paced pursuit of a bipartisan agreement on
immigration reform.

Last month, it was the passage of Arizona's immigration law, which forced the
often divisive issue back into the national conversation and put pressure on the
president to take action on behalf of angry pro-immigrant activists. More
recently, embattled Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) has pushed
comprehensive immigration legislation onto the congressional agenda, a popular
issue in his heavily Hispanic state.

The administration has sought to walk a fine line -- expressing a desire to move
forward but acknowledging the fierce opposition that remains among Republicans,
as well as some members of the president's party, on the issue.

Standing next to Mexican President Felipe CalderÃ³n in the Rose Garden on
Wednesday, President Obama said, in essence, that the ball is in the GOP's
court.

"I don't have 60 votes in the Senate. I've got to have some support from
Republicans," Obama told reporters. "I don't expect to get every Republican
vote, but I need some help in order to get it done."

That position has inflamed some advocates of immigration reform, who accuse
Obama of failing to keep the campaign promise he made to pass a comprehensive
overhaul.

"This heartbreaking exchange says more about the current state of the
immigration debate than the remarks of the two presidents in the Rose Garden,"
said Frank Sharry of America's Voice, a pro-immigrant group. "With comprehensive
immigration reform stalled, and Arizona taking matters into their own hands,
this young girl gives voice to the growing frustration and desperation in
immigrant families and communities."

Among conservatives, the girl's comments became fresh fodder for criticism of
the administration's handling of border security. Talk show host Rush Limbaugh
accused the White House of planting the question from the little girl, saying
that she then botched the delivery.

"This second-grader was supposed to say 'Arizona,' not 'Obama,' " Limbaugh said
on his show Wednesday afternoon. "I don't think there's any doubt it was a setup
question."

But even those who advocate the harshest treatment for illegal immigrants were
declining to call for an investigation into the status of the girl's mother. In
an interview, Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) said, "I think it's hard to start an
investigation on a statement from a 7-year-old."

A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, said, "While ICE continues to work with Congress to
enact reform, we remain focused on smart, effective immigration enforcement that
focuses first on convicted criminal aliens who pose a threat to our
communities."

Michelle Obama had taken her Mexican counterpart, Margarita Zavala, to
Montgomery County's New Hampshire Estates Elementary School to show off the
school's fitness program, diverse student body and family-style lunches. The two
women joined 14 second-graders for their gym class. After hopping, skipping and
running -- as well as flinging balls around in a giant parachute -- they all sat
in a circle, and the children asked questions.

Principal Jane Litchko said later that the school's policy is not to ask about
children's immigration status and that the topic of immigration is not covered
in their classes. "They're only 7," Litchko said, adding that she did not feel
comfortable discussing the exchange between the first lady and the girl, who
remained unidentified Wednesday evening. "The parents trust me that this is a
safe place," she said.

Litchko said that the school had called the girl's parents to let them know what
had happened and that the girl had gone home after school "the regular way."

Staff writers Daniel de Vise and Robin Givhan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Alex Wong/getty Images; The girl waving at far left, on the far
side of the circle of students, is the one who raised the immigration issue with
Michelle Obama. The first lady was visiting New Hampshire Estates Elementary
School in Montgomery County with her Mexican counterpart, Margarita Zavala.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 22, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Talk turns tough in Ariz. GOP race;
hard lines on immigration Challenger mocks McCain's stances

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 879 words

DATELINE: SIERRA VISTA, ARIZ.


J.D. Hayworth is a voluble man who wants people to know where he stands. One
recent day, he was standing a dozen miles from the porous Mexican border -- the
problem he hopes will catapult him past  incumbent John McCain (R-Ariz.) into
the U.S. Senate.

"If you enforce the law, people will obey the law," Hayworth told the Thunder
Mountain Republican Women, praising a strict new statute designed to curb
illegal immigration. In a closely watched campaign increasingly defined by who
can take the harder  line, Hayworth is a border hawk who called his book about
immigration policy "Whatever It Takes."

But McCain, seeking his fifth term, is not about to be out-toughed this year.
Once seen as more moderate on immigration, McCain has also endorsed the state
law, which requires police to question people they "reasonably suspect" are here
illegally. And he wants to send thousands of National Guard soldiers to the
border.

McCain's advertisements boast that he is "Arizona's last line of defense." In
his newest spot, he walks the border with a county sheriff, who turns to McCain
and declares, "You're one of us." For good measure, the senator who built a
national brand by styling himself a maverick recently declared that he never
considered himself one.

McCain's repositioning has fueled Hayworth's claim to be the "consistent
conservative" while the incumbent is at best unpredictable. He mocked McCain's
maverick comment, given that McCain named his 1999 campaign jet "Maverick 1" and
subtitled his 2003 memoir "The Education of an American Maverick."

Although McCain won the Republican nomination for president just two years ago,
Hayworth pays little homage to his pedigree. He foresees an upset, thanks to the
country's anti-incumbent mood and the candidacy of a 73-year-old politician who
ran an uneven presidential campaign and is distrusted by many conservatives.

Yet McCain remains the favorite with the Aug. 24 primary still three months
away. He has money in the bank -- $4.6 million to Hayworth's $861,000 at the end
of March -- and a lead in the polls. Public Policy Polling showed McCain 11
points ahead in mid-April and  the Rocky Mountain Poll showed him leading by 26
points. No top-tier Democrat has entered the race, which makes the winner of the
GOP primary the favorite to win in November.

Hayworth, a tart-tongued talk-radio host and former congressman 22 years younger
than McCain, is trying to close the gap with raw energy and a sharp line of
attack.

"It's going to be competitive," predicted Jennifer Duffy, senior editor of the
Cook Political Report. "McCain is fortunate in that he recognized his own
problems early. He's really been focused on shoring himself up where he needs to
be."

McCain strategists saw a danger signal in the undoing of Florida Gov. Charlie
Crist (R). Crist  expected an easy  victory in the Republican senatorial
primary, only to abandon the GOP for an independent bid when he found himself
far behind state Rep. Marco Rubio (R), a candidate backed by "tea party"
followers.

"We've recognized correctly that we need to be aggressive," said Brian Rogers,
McCain's campaign spokesman. "Immigration is the dominant issue. It's that and
the economy, and they're connected in people's minds."

McCain is likely to benefit from the party's decision to hold an open primary,
allowing independents, who typically favor the senator, to cast ballots. He also
won the endorsement of former running mate Sarah Palin and got a boost when
Arizona's four largest tea party groups decided not to endorse a candidate.

"Both McCain and Hayworth's records during their many years in Washington leave
much to be desired,"  Robert Mayer, co-founder of the Tucson Tea Party,
explained in a written statement, saying the movement "stands for limited
government, free markets, and fiscal responsibility."

But Hayworth has his supporters. "My experience of John is he says whatever he
says at the moment," Chuck Fitzgerald, a state employee, said at a Hayworth
event in Sun City,  adding that McCain's last-minute endorsement of the
immigration bill seemed calculated. "Where's he been the last two years?"

Hayworth, too, was once more moderate on immigration, and he faces his own
challenges, including ties to disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff. As a six-term
congressman, he used sports skyboxes that Abramoff billed to clients, but did
not report that fact to the Federal Election Commission until Abramoff's
criminal troubles became public. Hayworth's  campaign committee later repaid the
Choctaw and Chitimacha tribes $12,800 for using the suites.

Hayworth, 51, also has a propensity for headline-grabbing remarks.  He said
recently that a court ruling in favor of gay marriage could, in a "point of
absurdity," be taken to permit the marriage of man and horse.

In Sun City, where more than 100 people gathered under a golf course gazebo to
hear Hayworth, he said to applause that when he served as a congressman, he took
an oath "to the Constitution of the United States and not the charter of the
United Nations."

"It's not about service, it's about consistency," he said of McCain the next day
in Sierra Vista. "My first term," said Hayworth, who wore a Ronald Reagan
campaign ribbon, "will be all about the restoration of our constitutional
republic."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Joshua Lott/getty Images; Sen. John McCain, shown at an event in
Casa Grande, Ariz., says in campaign advertisements he is "Arizona's last line
of defense."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

In Arizona GOP race, the going gets tougher;
McCain, challenger for his Senate seat draw a hard line on immigration in
campaign

BYLINE: Peter Slevin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 879 words

DATELINE: SIERRA VISTA, ARIZ.


J.D. Hayworth is a voluble man who wants people to know where he stands. One
recent day, he was standing a dozen miles from the porous Mexican border -- the
problem he hopes will catapult him past  incumbent John McCain (R-Ariz.) into
the U.S. Senate.

"If you enforce the law, people will obey the law," Hayworth told the Thunder
Mountain Republican Women, praising a strict new statute designed to curb
illegal immigration. In a closely watched campaign increasingly defined by who
can take the harder  line, Hayworth is a border hawk who called his book about
immigration policy "Whatever It Takes."

But McCain, seeking his fifth term, is not about to be out-toughed this year.
Once seen as more moderate on immigration, McCain has also endorsed the state
law, which requires police to question people they "reasonably suspect" are here
illegally. And he wants to send thousands of National Guard soldiers to the
border.

McCain's advertisements boast that he is "Arizona's last line of defense." In
his newest spot, he walks the border with a county sheriff, who turns to McCain
and declares, "You're one of us." For good measure, the senator who built a
national brand by styling himself a maverick recently declared that he never
considered himself one.

McCain's repositioning has fueled Hayworth's claim to be the "consistent
conservative" while the incumbent is at best unpredictable. He mocked McCain's
maverick comment, given that McCain named his 1999 campaign jet "Maverick 1" and
subtitled his 2003 memoir "The Education of an American Maverick."

Although McCain won the Republican nomination for president just two years ago,
Hayworth pays little homage to his pedigree. He foresees an upset, thanks to the
country's anti-incumbent mood and the candidacy of a 73-year-old politician who
ran an uneven presidential campaign and is distrusted by many conservatives.

Yet McCain remains the favorite with the Aug. 24 primary still three months
away. He has money in the bank -- $4.6 million to Hayworth's $861,000 at the end
of March -- and a lead in the polls. Public Policy Polling showed McCain 11
points ahead in mid-April and  the Rocky Mountain Poll showed him leading by 26
points. No top-tier Democrat has entered the race, which makes the winner of the
GOP primary the favorite to win in November.

Hayworth, a tart-tongued talk-radio host and former congressman 22 years younger
than McCain, is trying to close the gap with raw energy and a sharp line of
attack.

"It's going to be competitive," predicted Jennifer Duffy, senior editor of the
Cook Political Report. "McCain is fortunate in that he recognized his own
problems early. He's really been focused on shoring himself up where he needs to
be."

McCain strategists saw a danger signal in the undoing of Florida Gov. Charlie
Crist (R). Crist  expected an easy  victory in the Republican senatorial
primary, only to abandon the GOP for an independent bid when he found himself
far behind state Rep. Marco Rubio (R), a candidate backed by "tea party"
followers.

"We've recognized correctly that we need to be aggressive," said Brian Rogers,
McCain's campaign spokesman. "Immigration is the dominant issue. It's that and
the economy, and they're connected in people's minds."

McCain is likely to benefit from the party's decision to hold an open primary,
allowing independents, who typically favor the senator, to cast ballots. He also
won the endorsement of former running mate Sarah Palin and got a boost when
Arizona's four largest tea party groups decided not to endorse a candidate.

"Both McCain and Hayworth's records during their many years in Washington leave
much to be desired,"  Robert Mayer, co-founder of the Tucson Tea Party,
explained in a written statement, saying the movement "stands for limited
government, free markets, and fiscal responsibility."

But Hayworth has his supporters. "My experience of John is he says whatever he
says at the moment," Chuck Fitzgerald, a state employee, said at a Hayworth
event in Sun City,  adding that McCain's last-minute endorsement of the
immigration bill seemed calculated. "Where's he been the last two years?"

Hayworth, too, was once more moderate on immigration, and he faces his own
challenges, including ties to disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff. As a six-term
congressman, he used sports skyboxes that Abramoff billed to clients, but did
not report that fact to the Federal Election Commission until Abramoff's
criminal troubles became public. Hayworth's  campaign committee later repaid the
Choctaw and Chitimacha tribes $12,800 for using the suites.

Hayworth, 51, also has a propensity for headline-grabbing remarks.  He said
recently that a court ruling in favor of gay marriage could, in a "point of
absurdity," be taken to permit the marriage of man and horse.

In Sun City, where more than 100 people gathered under a golf course gazebo to
hear Hayworth, he said to applause that when he served as a congressman, he took
an oath "to the Constitution of the United States and not the charter of the
United Nations."

"It's not about service, it's about consistency," he said of McCain the next day
in Sierra Vista. "My first term," said Hayworth, who wore a Ronald Reagan
campaign ribbon, "will be all about the restoration of our constitutional
republic."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Joshua Lott/getty Images; Sen. John McCain, shown at an event in
Casa Grande, Ariz., has toughened his stance on immigration. He now says he is
"Arizona's last line of defense."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Too smart to lead?;
Elena Kagan's nomination has raised the prospect of an "all-Ivy" Supreme Court.
Is it a good idea for any institution, or any sector of society, to rely so
heavily on a handful of elite universities to educate and train its leaders?

BYLINE: On Leadership

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. G02

LENGTH: 764 words


Juana Bordas is president of Mestiza Leadership International, a company focused
on leadership and organizational change.

On the question of leadership, it is important to dig deeper -- to till the soil
of a leader's early years to determine the values and experience that shaped him
or her. Regardless that all the justices were educated at the most elite schools
in America -- what got them there, what are their roots, what values do they
hold dear?

Chief Justice John Roberts's father was a Czech immigrant who worked as a plant
manager with Bethlehem Steel. Justice Antonin Scalia also comes from immigrant
roots. His Italian mother taught elementary school. Justice Samuel Alito's
parents were Italian immigrants as well, and Alito's father taught high school.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor's Puerto Rican father had a third-grade education and
worked as a tool-and-die maker. Her mother was a telephone operator. Sotomayor
grew up in the Bronxdale Housing projects. Justice Clarence Thomas is a
descendant of slaves; his father was a farm worker and his mother cleaned homes.

Certainly it is a testament to the American dream that these five justices who
came from such humble beginnings were able to scale to our most prestigious
universities.

No doubt Yale or Harvard diplomas were credentials that got them this
prestigious post. But now, as they recluse themselves from the lives of ordinary
people, as they become part of one of the most elite clubs in the world, as they
make decisions that will affect people who are like their parents and
grandparents, will they remember the lessons of their childhood?

Kathryn Kolbert is director of the Athena Center for Leadership Studies at
Barnard College.

Imagine the hoopla if the president had nominated a woman from a less
prestigious school? You can bet the naysayers would have been squealing she
wasn't good enough for the job.

Martin Davidson is a professor of leadership at the University of Virginia's
Darden School of Business.

There is nothing inherently wrong with a bunch of Ivy League minds coming
together. High intelligence and excellent legal training are an essential part
of a great Supreme Court. But we have to ask: "What else matters in rendering
justice? And what great minds from other educational perspectives and training
grounds can collaborate to make sure the court does not stroll along an
Ivy-biased trail of legal thinking?" As the court ruled in 2003, diversity can
be and is often a valid criterion upon which people can be selected for a
position if that diversity is essential to creating the best results. Shouldn't
we apply this logic to the court itself?

Scott DeRue is a management professor at the University of Michigan.

There is clear evidence that our place in elite social networks explains our
social status and mobility. In fact, research even shows that business
executives enter into strategic partnerships and alliances with other companies,
in part, based on whether the partnering executives attended the same
undergraduate institution. Thus, Ivy Leaguers are not just paying for an
education, they are paying for entry into a social network that is powerful and
global.

But again, the issue is not where did she go to school or who does she know. Is
she competent? Does she complement the existing justices? Does she have the
principles and perspective necessary to make decisions that will affect a
nation? Only time will tell.

John Baldoni is a leadership consultant.

The question about intelligence in public service leadership is not just about
smarts; it is about access.

While it is true that every member of the Supreme Court, if Kagan is confirmed,
will be a product of an Ivy League education, none comes from privileged
backgrounds. Most justices come from middle-class backgrounds, with the
exception of Justice Clarence Thomas, who grew up without any material
advantages. Therefore, each justice demonstrate the benefits of meritocracy;
each earned the right to be considered for higher education and the high court
by virtue of doing well first in school and later in the legal profession.
Smarts helped, but it was not the deciding factor; access to opportunity was.

Sean Holiday is one of 12 Southern California Coros fellows engaged in a
graduate-level leadership training program.

The value of diversity is not captured in a photograph; it is realized when
different perspectives are brought to the table that were shaped by varying
experiences. To have almost 90 percent of the justices come from just two
schools limits the full expression of what diversity should really mean.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE; Manuel Balce Ceneta/associated Press; Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan
graduated from Princeton University and Harvard Law School.
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Send in the Guard -- but for what?;
Focus on stopping crime rings, not immigrants

BYLINE: Jennifer Bernal-Garcia

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 817 words


After almost a year of debate between officials of the Homeland Security and
Defense departments,  President Obama announced  Tuesday that he would deploy
1,200 National Guard troops to the border with Mexico, coupled with a request to
Congress for $500 million to enhance border security measures. The deployment's
main flaw is immediately clear: It does not fit into a broader strategy to
counter the instability generated by drug violence. This is a tactical response
to a strategic problem. Until the Obama administration develops a strategy for
dealing with the growing turmoil along the border, deploying troops risks
placing the United States on a slippery slope of escalating militarization with
little positive effect.

Obama's decision was largely a political gesture to win Republican support for
immigration reform. Although some have  welcomed the move, critics such as Sen.
John McCain (R-Ariz.) complain that 1,200 troops will not make a difference.
These skeptics are right. A couple of thousand more boots on the ground will
barely affect the situation on the border.

Moreover, Mexicans will rightly be wary. Obama risks being seen as militarizing
the border instead of taking measures the international community has long
called for, such as placing further emphasis on drug reduction, renewing the
expired ban on assault weapons or ratifying the Inter-American Convention
Against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms. (In fact,
reluctance to "militarize" the border was a main reason Pentagon officials
disagreed with Homeland Security counterparts over the functions of troops that
might be deployed.)

The big question is: Would many more troops make a difference? The Bush
administration sent 6,000 National Guard members to the border in 2006 under
Operation Jump Start. Their two-year mission was to offer support -- mainly
logistical -- to law enforcement; presumably, this will also be the mission of
those Obama is deploying. Then, as now, the impetus was a political need related
to the debate on immigration reform. Overall smuggling of drugs and people did
not diminish, and immigration law has yet to be reformed.

Even in the best-case scenario, the National Guard can act only as a stopgap, as
at least one Bush administration official, now safely out of office, has
admitted. The United States does not need more border enforcement but smarter
border enforcement. The real threat to U.S. security along America's southern
edge comes from organized crime rings, not masses of immigrants, even illegal
ones. Illegal immigration rates have declined for several years, partly because
of the recession but also because border enforcement has been improving. (For
example, there are more than 20,000 Border Patrol agents, an 80 percent increase
since 2004 and an all-time high in that agency's history. Spending on
surveillance technologies has also facilitated better monitoring of the border.)

Yet even as border patrolling has improved, the power of criminal organizations
has grown. Crime rates in border cities are not skyrocketing as some claim, but
high-profile incidents, such as striking murders and clashes with law
enforcement, are on the rise, along with attempts to corrupt U.S. officials. The
most dangerous groups are the most sophisticated ones, and they know how to
avoid enforcement hot spots. Physical acts, such as installing fences or
increasing patrols, will not do much to affect drug violence, drug smuggling,
drug-related corruption of public officials or the myriad other ills that drug
trafficking visits on a population.

What is needed along the border is a coordinated strategy among federal agencies
and foreign governments, not incremental acts and feel-good deployments. Such a
broad strategy would focus on reducing criminal groups' ability to violently
contest state authority, both by diminishing the sources of their proceeds
(drugs) and their social base (through a mix of regional law enforcement and
social programs). It would expand beyond borders and would include most
countries in the region to counter "balloon effects," the relocation of illicit
activity from one area to another. Its ultimate goal would be to ensure that
illicit trades do not upset stability in areas of interest to U.S. security, be
they regions in Mexico or in Arizona.

In the meantime, questions about the troop deployment remain to be answered:
What states will they come from? How will they be distributed? How will the
government ensure that the National Guard counters criminals but does not deal
directly with immigrants, as the White House has promised?

Without a broader strategy, sending troops to the border smells of mission
creep. Given the situation today, if the government continues deploying units,
there is no saying what might bring them back.

Jennifer Bernal-Garcia is researcher at the Center for a New American Security
in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Sarah L. Voisin / The Washington Post; Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, second from left, prepares for a news conference on
the 1,248 pounds of marijuana that was seized near the Texas border in February
2009.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration debate lands in Centreville;
Proposal for trailer to serve day laborers raises neighbors' fears

BYLINE: Derek Kravitz

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 934 words


At first, a Northern Virginia developer's plan to build a gathering place for
immigrant day laborers seemed like a simple solution for a local problem. But as
the national immigration debate continues to ramp up, the idea of erecting a
double-wide work center in Centreville -- privately funded and staffed by church
volunteers -- is facing increased scrutiny from those on both sides of the
debate.

Albert J. Dwoskin, once described as the region's "shopping center king" and a
longtime Democratic Party donor, last month proposed setting up a trailer behind
his Centreville Square Shopping Center as a de facto work center for about 50
Guatemalan day laborers who for years have sought construction and landscaping
jobs near the stores and the adjacent Centreville Public Library. Fairfax County
Supervisor Michael R. Frey (R-Sully) has supported the plan, and a group of
churches, calling itself the Centreville Immigration Forum, has offered to staff
the facility.

But a town-hall-style meeting Tuesday to discuss the proposal is expected to
bring out hundreds of shopping center tenants and nearby residents who oppose a
day-laborer site because they worry that it could lure more immigrants seeking
work. Dwoskin acknowledged the potential for a firestorm.

"The less press this gets, the better," Dwoskin, 67, said last week.

Frey, a moderate Republican with a low-key demeanor, said he, too, feared that
the meeting could devolve into a larger discussion of federal immigration policy
and threaten the community's carefully hatched plans.

"People have wanted me to grandstand and become some kind of a demagogue on this
issue," Frey said. "This is a Centreville problem, not a federal problem. Not to
say I wish this hadn't bubbled up, say, three months before Arizona," referring
to a new Arizona law that makes it a state crime to be in the country illegally.

Debate about Spanish-speaking day laborers gathering to seek work has been
common in the Washington region, from Herndon, Annandale, Culmore and Falls
Church in Northern Virginia to Wheaton, Silver Spring and Gaithersburg in
Maryland.

In Centreville, a Fairfax County community of about 50,000 that is both
prosperous and quickly diversifying, the controversy focuses on the four dozen
or so Hispanic men, some of whom are undocumented immigrants, who often stand
near Lee Highway and Centreville Road. For five years, Dwoskin has fielded
complaints from many of his 120 shopkeepers, who say their customers are being
scared away.

"I personally don't like to see them hanging around there. I have families with
kids that come in, and it can be a problem," said Rayman Hamid, a Guyana native
and former winner of the Centreville Businessman of the Year award who owns a
Baskin-Robbins franchise a few blocks from where many of the laborers gather.
"But I feel sorry for them, too. They're human beings, man. I don't know what to
do."

A year ago, Dwoskin hired a full-time security guard to keep the men off his
property, so they took refuge near the library. The Centreville Immigration
Forum, the church group that organized three years ago to work with the Hispanic
community, has offered its services, holding public forums about immigration and
the difficulties of day laboring. Many of the men have told church officials
that they have been cheated by employers, said Alice H. Foltz, a parishioner at
Wellspring United Church of Christ. She is the unofficial "convener" of about 40
churchgoers who have agreed to staff the trailer as a day-laboring work center.

"It's an issue of exploitation," said Holtz, a history teacher at Northern
Virginia Community College's Loudoun County campus. "But we're not trying to
solve immigration here. We're trying to help these men."

No taxpayer funds would be used, Frey said, and Dwoskin would pay for the
trailer and its utilities. Edgar Aranda-Yanoc, a community educator in the Falls
Church office of the Legal Aid Justice Center, called it a "local solution to a
local problem," adding that it has the support of the day laborers who live in a
stretch of townhouses near the library.

David Garcia, 35, who moved from Guatemala with his wife about four years ago,
said a work center could give him and other immigrants a haven and a steady
income. "Sometimes they pick us up and don't pay. So a trailer would help,"
Garcia said.

But many shopping center tenants and customers said they fear that a hiring
center would attract more immigrants seeking work, overwhelming already
congested roads and spurring a spike in vandalism, loitering and petty crime.

"It's a terrible idea. They're going to come from all over, and we're going to
get a reputation for not being a safe place," said Gary Malm, who owns
Centreville Tire and Auto near the trailer's proposed site. "I wouldn't want my
daughter or son or my wife dropping off a car at night around here if they were
hanging around."

Del. Timothy D. Hugo (R-Fairfax), whose district includes Centreville, sent an
e-mail to 9,000 supporters urging them to attend Tuesday's meeting -- scheduled
for 7 p.m. at Centre Ridge Elementary School -- and oppose the work center plan.
"Centreville is turning a blind eye to the concerns of its residents," said
Hugo, who co-sponsored a bill this year that will allow Virginia localities to
prosecute those who sell "goods or services" on roadways.

Church forum members say they fear that Centreville could experience the turmoil
that occurred in Herndon in 2006 over a plan for a town-sponsored day-laborer
center. But Dwoskin and Frey hope the work center idea calms tensions. "We'll
see what happens Tuesday," Frey said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

What's the big idea?

BYLINE: Kate Julian

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 372 words

Call it the case of the missing summer jobs.

According to Northeastern University economist Andrew Sum, only a third of
American 16- to 19-year-olds had a job last summer, the lowest level on record
and down from 52 percent a decade ago. The decline began long before the current
economic crisis, so high unemployment is not the only culprit. But the question
of who is to blame has launched your classic Washington think tank skirmish.

First up, Steven Camarota, a researcher at the Center for Immigration Studies,
which favors tighter restrictions on immigration. In a paper released last
month, he points a finger at (yes) immigrants, who often fill the types of
low-skill jobs that teenagers have traditionally held.

But in reviewing Camarota's paper, Heidi Shierholz, an economist at the liberal
Economic Policy Institute, spotted what she considered a glaring omission. "He
didn't mention rising summer school enrollment," she told me last week. "It's
this massive trend that he just didn't talk about."

Shierholz put out a brief critiquing Camarota's argument: "CIS Analysis of
Immigration's Impact on Youth Employment Omits Key Facts." She argued that
increased summer school attendance more than accounted for the decline in teen
employment.

After what a post on the EPI Web site describes as "friendly discussions," the
dueling researchers reached a detente. Shierholz now reckons that summer school
accounts for only around a third of the overall decline. Camarota, for his part,
concedes that school enrollment might be playing some role. "It wouldn't be
plausible if the whole story is immigration," he told me.

In other words, the mystery remains. Other suspects: older workers who aren't
retiring as quickly as expected; increases, in some states, in the minimum wage;
and that old standby, changing values.

One thing everyone agrees on? Summer jobs, if they can be found, don't pay
anything like they used to. "When I was a teenager in the early '80s in New
Jersey," Camarota said, "It was not uncommon for a hard job to pay $7 an hour,
which would be about $15 an hour now. Now nobody, under any circumstances, pays
a teenager $15 an hour."

-- Kate Julian

Have a contender for the Big Idea?

Let us know at outlook@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Preventing deaths in the desert

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 217 words


I'm glad reporter Peter Slevin [" 'Los Samaritanos' reach out across border,"
news story, June 6] had an opportunity to go into the southern Arizona desert to
see what "Los Samaritanos" (the Samaritans) do. As a Samaritan, I'd like to
underscore that the objective of the Samaritans is to prevent deaths in the
desert.

We don't think providing a little water and food is encouraging those who
struggle to enter the United States. It is desperation that motivates people to
walk three to eight days, in 100-degree heat, across the harsh desert. While
some U.S. Customs and Border Protection  officials may disapprove of the
humanitarian aid we offer, we've also been thanked on more than one occasion --
nobody likes to find bodies in the desert. And though fears are stoked when
migrants are portrayed as potential felons, studies show that immigrants
(documented or undocumented) commit fewer crimes than native-born Americans.

What it comes down to is that immigration policy is broken. It is virtually
impossible for unskilled workers to receive visas, though plenty of work awaits
them. Visas for family members are equally unobtainable. We continue to advocate
for comprehensive immigration reform. Until that happens, we'll keep trying to
prevent deaths in the desert.

Sandra Rooney, Green Valley, Ariz.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Commerce and conscience;
Immigrant Centreville merchants in conflict over day-laborer site

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1079 words


The vibrant mix of immigrants whose shops flank the Giant supermarket in
Centreville have worked for years to get where they are. They own homes, support
Little League teams and attend community meetings, where they speak with the
accents of India and Guyana, Korea and Bangladesh.

A few yards across the sunbaked parking lot of the Centreville Square Shopping
Center is another tale of immigrant America. Unemployed men from Central
America, many of whom are in the country illegally, appear on the sidewalk each
day, hoping that the driver of a passing car will pull up and offer them a few
twenty-dollar bills for a day's work.

The relationship between the two groups had been uneasy for months when the
shopping center's owner, Albert J. Dwoskin, proposed creating a  site for the
day laborers on an unused portion of land, staffed by church volunteers.
Arguments erupted among people who fear that the center would draw more illegal
immigrants to the area and others who  say that they are already there and that
the center would be a more orderly way for them to find work.

The controversy has put the strip center's foreign-born shop owners in a
delicate position: Having gone through the immigration process themselves, the
merchants can understand the day laborers' desire to improve their lives. At the
same time, many merchants  say the presence of the workers is a threat to their
own American dream.

"It's hurting our business; customers are scared to come to the shopping
center," said Satish J. Satija, a naturalized U.S. citizen from India who owns
Tippy's Taco.

Last year, one of the day laborers barged in, drunk, to the Baskin-Robbins owned
by Guyanese-born Rayman Hamid, 47, cursing and scaring the families sitting at
his tables. Hamid, who became a U.S. citizen 20 years ago, called the police.
The man, an illegal immigrant, was deported, Hamid said, but he returned a few
months later looking for Hamid, who had stepped out; police were called, and the
man was barred from the shopping center.

To forestall such incidents, the merchants agreed to chip in for extra security
to keep the day laborers on the other side of the parking lot. Hamid recounted
the story to explain why he is so opposed to a site for day laborers.

"As an immigrant I feel for them, I care for them," he explained. "If a guy
falls out there, I'll care for him, I'll bring him water, I'll even shelter him.
At the same time, why should I pay all this extra money for an armed guard? I'm
selling ice cream; why do I need an armed security guard for selling ice cream?"

Most polls of immigrants don't ask their legal status, so it is hard to assess
legal immigrants' views of illegal immigrants, polling experts say. For many of
the country's 28 million foreign-born legal residents and naturalized citizens,
the issue is personal and complicated.

To Satija, breaking the law to cross the border is "not right. I came in
legally. I had to wait two years to get my papers done," he said. "They're
taking away the jobs from our kids who were born and raised here, and taxpayers'
money is going to them."

Ethnic empathy

Akim Alam, 49, a naturalized citizen from Bangladesh who owns a Ledo Pizza
restaurant, agreed that the day laborers' presence has hurt business, but he
doesn't blame the men.

"I feel for them," he said. "They're hardworking people. They're good people.
They don't mean to hurt anyone, but they need a job."

That need brings them to this intersection of wide suburban roads, where
contractors drive by looking for cheap labor, much of it off the books, and
workers hurry to approach each car.

Dwoskin, the son of immigrants from Eastern Europe, said he proposed the site to
alleviate the problems of his tenants as well as to help the laborers. Many of
the immigrant shop owners support the idea, he said. The more recently they've
arrived, "the more positive they are about providing some help."

Legal immigrants often empathize with fellow immigrants, even undocumented ones,
said Frank Sherry, executive director of America's Voice Online, an immigration
reform advocacy group based in Washington.

Those from Latin America tend to be the most sympathetic because many have
friends or relatives who are undocumented, or because they were themselves once
undocumented, Sherry said, adding that Latin American immigrants tend to have
fewer opportunities to immigrate legally than those from Asia, Africa or Europe
whose skills or higher education help them get visas.

"If you're an English-speaking engineer, your chances are a million times
greater, whereas your chances of getting in legally if you're a Mexican laborer
-- no way," he said.

'They feel like suckers'

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Washington-based Center for
Immigration Studies, which favors tighter restrictions, agreed that those
personally acquainted with illegal immigrants are more likely to sympathize with
them, but said that many legal immigrants are offended by illegal immigration.

"There are significant numbers of legal immigrants who really resent the idea of
rewarding illegal aliens," he said. "They jumped through the hoops, they dealt
with the red tape, they paid the fees, and they feel like suckers."

Length of time since immigration can influence attitudes. According to a recent
Associated Press-Univision poll, Hispanics overwhelmingly see illegal immigrants
as doing jobs Americans don't want. But U.S.-born Hispanics and those who came
to the country 30 or more years ago are significantly more likely than recent
arrivals to see undocumented workers as taking away jobs.

At Centreville Square, the foreign-born merchants leaned toward an immigration
policy overhaul rather than tougher enforcement.

Alam, who came to the  United States as a student in 1981 and benefited from a
general amnesty a few years later, said he would like to see a similar route to
legalization for current undocumented workers, along with a tightening of border
controls.

Richard Roh, 53, who owns BBQ Chicken and Beer, part of a South Korean
restaurant chain, also sought a middle ground.

"I'm not in big favor of [illegal day laborers] but I'm not opposed to them,"
said Roh, who moved here in 1983 to study computer science and is now a U.S.
citizen. "I understand their position. Yeah, sometimes it looks ugly. But on the
other hand, they are trying to survive."

On balance, he said with a smile, "I have to come down on the side of the
immigrants."

Polling director Jon Cohen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Tracy A. Woodward/the Washington Post; Restaurant
owners Satish Satija, left, Richard Roh and Akim Alam discuss the day-laborer
situation, inside Roh's Centreville eatery.
IMAGE; Job seekers crowd a truck near Centreville Square, where such scenes have
drawn complaints from residents and merchants.
IMAGE; Tracy A. Woodward/the Washington Post; Rayman Hamid at his Baskin-Robbins
shop, where a drunken day laborer scared his customers last year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 458 words

IMMIGRATION

Harvard student spared deportation

An undocumented Harvard University student whose detention by immigration
authorities has drawn wide attention is no longer facing deportation to Mexico,
officials said.

Eric Balderas, 19, was detained nearly two weeks ago after he tried to use a
university ID card to board a plane from San Antonio to Boston. The detention
sparked a buzz among student immigrant activists, many of whom thought
Balderas's case might help advance the proposed DREAM act -- a federal bill that
would allow illegal immigrants a pathway to citizenship through college
enrollment or military service.

Mario Rodas, a friend of Balderas's, said Balderas was granted deferred action,
which can be used to halt deportation based on a case's merits. U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement confirmed that the agency had decided not to pursue the
deportation.

-- Associated Press

PENNSYLVANIA

White supremacists picket at Gettysburg

A demonstration by a dozen white supremacists at one of the nation's most famous
Civil War battlefields ended without incident Saturday, as police kept them
isolated from the slightly larger group of counterprotesters.

The Aryan Nations' northeastern division held its demonstration at Gettysburg
National Military Park, just a few hundred yards from the site where the Union
Army repulsed Pickett's Charge during the storied 1863 battle. The two sides
taunted each other but never got close. There were no arrests.

-- Associated Press

FDA warns against using coffee product as aphrodisiac: The Food and Drug
Administration on Saturday urged consumers not to use an instant coffee product
that is being marketed as a sexual aphrodisiac, saying it could dangerously
lower blood pressure. The FDA said Magic Power Coffee contains a chemical that
could interact with some prescription drugs in ways that might lead to dizziness
or lightheadedness.

Bear killed after fatal mauling near Yellowstone: Federal wildlife officials on
Saturday tracked down and killed a grizzly bear suspected of fatally mauling a
man outside Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming. Shot from a helicopter, the
bear died about two miles from where Erwin Frank Evert was killed Thursday near
his cabin east of Yellowstone.

Schools official in R.I. vows to change controversial policy: The superintendent
of a Rhode Island school district that banned a second-grader's homemade hat
because it displayed toy soldiers with tiny guns said Saturday that he will work
to change the policy to allow such apparel. Ken Di Pietro said the no-weapons
policy shouldn't limit student expression. The 8-year-old student glued plastic
Army figures to a baseball cap after choosing a patriotic theme for a school
project.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mario Tama/getty Images; Performers prepare Saturday for the
Coney Island, N.Y., Mermaid Parade, which has been heralding the start of summer
since 1983.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Local Digest

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 262 words

MARYLAND

CASA opens center in Langley Park

CASA of Maryland, the state's largest Latino and immigrant service organization,
opened its new $13.8 million multicultural center in Langley Park yesterday. The
new center will offer educational and legal services aimed at the area's
immigrant community.

Sens.  Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) praised CASA's
work over the past 25 years, including its  push for a comprehensive overhaul of
immigration law.

The organization expects to serve 6,000 families annually through the facility.

About 20 protesters, many from the anti-illegal immigration group Help Save
Maryland, held signs and chanted in front of the building, decrying the tax
dollars that helped fund the facility.

-- Kevin Sieff

TRANSPORTATION

D.C., Md. praised in driving safety report

The effort to reduce accidents caused by distracted driving has gained momentum
across the nation, according to a report issued Tuesday, as states enact
stronger laws against texting and cellphone use and push to create greater
public awareness.

The report gave the District and Maryland high marks for their efforts and
ranked Virginia a notch lower, primarily because it has not included distracted
driving in its state safety program.

The report by the Governors Highway Safety Association said that the District,
Maryland and 26 other states have given distracted driving priority in their
highway safety plans.  It also found that the number of states that seek to
determine whether distraction was a factor in accidents has grown.

-- Ashley Halsey III

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 26, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Pistole confirmed as TSA chief; unions to seek collective-bargaining rights

BYLINE: Joe Davidson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 433 words


After three tries, President Obama has an administrator for the Transportation
Security Administration. John Pistole, former deputy director of the FBI, was
confirmed by the Senate Friday, with a voice vote.

Two previous nominees withdrew, leaving the Department of Homeland Security
agency without a permanent administrator since Obama took office.

While the air, rail and trucking issues the TSA oversees are critical to safety
and security, the two largest federal employee unions also want
collective-bargaining rights for about 50,000 transportation security officers
(TSOs).

During his confirmation hearings, Pistole did not take a position on the
collective bargaining issue, saying he would review it if his nomination was
approved. In response to a question, however, he said that collective bargaining
at the FBI would not improve national security.

"It is essential that TSOs are afforded the same rights to negotiate over
important workplace issues, due process, whistleblower protections, veterans'
preference, appropriate salaries, fair pay increases and leave policies as other
federal workers -- including other Department of Homeland Security employees,
including those working for the Border Patrol, Citizenship and Immigration
Services, Coast Guard, Federal Protective Service, FEMA and Immigration and
Customs Enforcement," said John Gage, president of the American Federation of
Government Employees.

AFGE and National Treasury Employees Union officials said they plan to meet with
Pistole to stress that collective bargaining would not compromise national
security or the ability of the TSA to deploy its employees.

"The best way to aid TSA in reaching the goals Congress set for it, and that the
traveling public expects of TSA, is for its workforce to have a meaningful
voice," said NTEU President Colleen M. Kelley, "and no mechanism provides such a
voice as well as the right to bargain collectively."

Lawmakers greeted the confirmation warmly.

"I look forward to meeting with him to discuss his plan for the agency and this
committee's priorities as soon as possible," said Rep. Bennie Thompson
(D-Miss.), chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. Sen. Joseph I.
Lieberman (I-Conn.), chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee, called Pistole "a well-qualified and urgently needed nominee."

The top Republican on the Senate committee, Susan Collins (Maine), said the new
administrator must get the agency in shape to meet an ongoing threat. "We know
from hard experience that attacking America remains a goal of our terrorist
enemies," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 545 words

TENNESSEE

Inmates subject to immigration checks

Tennessee's governor has signed into law a measure that would require the
state's jailers to determine whether inmates are in the country illegally and
report them if they are.

Gov. Phil Bredesen (D) said that  the measure would require a verification
process similar to what some Tennessee cities are already doing.

Sponsors  said the  measure is necessary because not all jurisdictions share
information with Immigration and Customs Enforcement when they arrest someone
they suspect is in the country illegally.

The American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee urged Bredesen to veto the
legislation because it said  the measure would encourage racial profiling.

-- Associated Press

MASSACHUSETTS

Great white shark caught and released

State officials and shark experts moved quickly to reassure beachgoers Monday
after a tuna boat snagged a great white shark, the first confirmed sighting in
Massachusetts waters this summer of one of the sea's most feared creatures.

The juvenile shark -- six to seven feet long and weighing an estimated 150
pounds -- was pulled up by the Gloucester-based Sweet Dream III on Saturday
about 20 miles off the coast. "Something kind of crested up out of the water . .
. and we pretty quickly realized it wasn't a tuna," said Bruce Sweet, the
vessel's skipper.The crew put a tag on the shark and released it back into the
ocean.

-- Associated Press

ILLINOIS

Blagojevich thought of naming Winfrey

Former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich seriously considered Oprah Winfrey as a
candidate to fill President Obama's former Senate seat, calling the talk show
host a kingmaker who could influence voters, according to an FBI tape played
Monday at his corruption trial.

"She made Obama, she's up there so high nobody could assail this pick,"
Blagojevich is heard telling his chief of staff, John Harris, who is  a
prosecution witness.

Blagojevich had mentioned in TV interviews last year that Winfrey's name had
come up. Winfrey said then that she was "amused" and that she was unaware at the
time that she was under consideration.

At one point, Blagojevich also considered naming California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger, a Republican.

-- Associated Press

Cheney discharged: Former vice president Richard B. Cheney was discharged from
the hospital  Monday after he underwent tests and was held for observation over
the weekend, his spokesman said. Cheney, 69, who has had five heart attacks in
32 years, was admitted to George Washington University Hospital on Friday after
falling ill.

Cheney, who was vice president under George W. Bush and played a major role in
planning the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, suffered heart attacks in February, and
in 1978, 1984, 1988 and 2000.

Digital license plates? California lawmakers' flirtation with digital license
plates moved another step forward Monday as the Assembly Transportation
Committee endorsed a feasibility study to determine if advertising revenue from
millions of digital license placards would help close the state's $19.1 billion
deficit.

Besides bringing in revenue, electronic plates could streamline car-registration
procedures and quickly notify motorists of hazardous road conditions and AMBER
alerts, some officials suggested.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

POST PARTISAN;
Excerpts from The Post's opinion blog, updated daily at
washingtonpost.com/postpartisan

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 462 words


Edward Schumacher-Matos

Obama: All talk on immigration

  President Obama said all the right things in his speech on reforming
immigration Thursday except one: that he was going to do anything.

He didn't announce a new comprehensive reform bill. He didn't pledge action on
the limited bills already in Congress that cover students or agricultural
workers. He didn't even say whether the federal government is going to sue the
state of Arizona over that state's recently passed "papers, please" immigration
law.

But all this is not to say that the speech wasn't useful. It was. Words are
powerful, and Obama's words will keep rationality -- and even some inspiration
-- over immigration alive. This is at a time when fear, misinformation,
demagoguery, partisanship and special-interest blinders have created a toxic
cauldron and divided the nation.

And regardless, Obama couldn't do much more than offer hope. "The question now
is whether we will have the courage and the political will to pass a bill
through Congress, to finally get it done," he said. Clearly the answer is no.
Our political leaders are too afraid.

As Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said this week, many Democrats aren't
willing to take on the issue before the midterm elections. And not one
Republican senator is willing to, either, unless the legislation focuses on more
border enforcement or an attrition strategy forcing out the nearly 11 million
unauthorized immigrants here. This is despite the fact that many, such as
Arizonans John McCain and Jon Kyl, have acknowledged  that enforcement by itself
is insufficient, impractical and un-American.

Perhaps it is because Obama knows the futility of trying to pass any sort of
comprehensive immigration reform this year that he slipped in a jab to score
political points, blaming the Republicans for the timidity in Congress. "That is
the political and mathematical reality," he said of the need for their votes.

Whether that strategy, which the Democrats apparently will try to ride through
November, will be enough to satisfy their base, particularly Hispanics, remains
to be seen.

And so the federal government is frozen while most Americans demand action.
Repeated polls show that a solid majority support both the earned pathway to
legalization and the Arizona law. Most probably agree with Obama when he said,
again logically, that "our borders are just too vast for us" to be able to seal
them with fences and the Border Patrol. They overwhelmingly agree with him,
according to polls, that rounding up and evicting every unauthorized immigrant
is impossible and would "tear at the very fabric of this nation."

But Americans still want to fix the problem. No fixes were announced Thursday.
Stalemate, frustration and the toxic stew will continue to reign.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

A better welcome for our immigrants

BYLINE: Jeb Bush and Robert D. Putnam

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 951 words


On our national birthday, and amid an angry debate about immigration, Americans
should reflect on the lessons of our shared immigrant past. We must recall that
the challenges facing our nation today were felt as far back as the Founders'
time. Immigrant assimilation has always been slow and contentious, with progress
measured not in years but in decades. Yet  there are steps communities and
government should take to form a more cohesive, successful union.

Consider what one leader wrote in 1753: "Few of their children in the country
learn English. The signs in our streets have inscriptions in both languages. . .
. Unless the stream of their importation could be turned . . . they will soon so
outnumber us that we will not preserve our language, and even our government
will become precarious." Thus Ben Franklin referred to German Americans, still
the largest ethnic group in America. A century later, Midwestern cities such as
Cincinnati and St. Louis were mostly German-speaking. So worried were their
native-born neighbors that Iowa outlawed speaking German in public and even in
private conversation.

Proponents and opponents of immigration agree on one thing: Learning English is
crucial to success and assimilation. Yet learning a language as an adult is
hard, so first-generation immigrants often use their native tongue.
Historically, English has dominated by the second or third generation in all
immigrant groups.  Most recent immigrants recognize that they need to learn
English, and about 90 percent of the second generation speak English, according
to the Pew Hispanic Center. Research by sociologists Claude Fischer and Michael
Hout published in 2008 suggests that English acquisition among immigrants today
is faster than in previous waves.

Residential integration of immigrants is even more gradual. Half a century ago,
sociologist Stanley Lieberson showed that most immigrants lived in segregated
enclaves, "Little Italy" or "Chinatown," for several generations. This
segregation reflected discrimination by natives and the natural desire of
"strangers in a strange land" to live among familiar faces with familiar
customs. Only with suburbanization, encouraged by government policy in the 1950s
and 1960s, did the children and grandchildren of the immigrants of the 1890s and
1900s exit those enclaves. That many of today's immigrants live in ethnic
enclaves is thus entirely normal and reflects no ominous aim to separate
themselves from the wider American community.

Immigrant intermarriage, then and now, also demonstrates steady progress over
generations. In the 1960s, more than half a century after Italian immigration
peaked, about 40 percent of second-generation Italians married non-Italians.
This pattern characterizes today's immigrants: 39 percent of U.S.-born Latinos
marry non-Latinos, according to the Pew Research Center. Intermarriage among
second-generation Asian Americans is even more common. Today's immigrants are,
on average, assimilating socially even more rapidly than earlier waves.

One important difference, however, that separates immigration then and now: We
native-born Americans are doing less than our great-grandparents did to welcome
immigrants.

A century ago, religious, civic and business groups and government provided
classes in English and citizenship. Historian Thomas P. Vadasz found that in
Bethlehem, Pa., a thriving town of about 20,000, roughly two-thirds of whom were
immigrants, the biggest employer, Bethlehem Steel, and the local YMCA offered
free English instruction to thousands of immigrants in the early 20th century,
even paying them to take classes. Today, immigrants face long waiting lists for
English classes, even ones they pay for.

Why is this important? A legal immigration system is the not-so-secret edge in a
competitive, interconnected world economy. Immigrants enhance our ability to
grow and prosper in the dynamic global marketplace. We will need every possible
advantage to expand our economy amid its fiscal challenges. Moreover, the aging
of our population places a premium on young, productive workers, many of whom
must come from immigration.

To improve their integration into our American community, we should:

-- Provide low-cost English classes, in cooperation with local civic and
religious groups, where immigrants build personal ties with co-ethnics and
native-born Americans. These connections foster assimilation and help newcomers
navigate our complex institutions.

-- Invest in public education, including civics education and higher education.
During the first half of the 20th century, schools were critical to preparing
children of immigrants for success and fostering a shared national identity.

-- Assist communities experiencing rapid increases in immigration, which is
traumatic for those arriving here and for receiving communities. Schools and
hospitals bear disproportionate costs of immigration, while the economic and
fiscal benefits from immigration accrue nationally.

Assimilation does not mean immigrants shed ethnic identities. Our national
experience with hyphenated identities shows that good Americans can retain a
strong sense of ethnic identity.

We've lived our national motto, "E Pluribus Unum" ("Out of Many, One"), better
than any other country. But we ought not to airbrush our ancestors' difficulties
in assimilation, nor fail to match our forebears' efforts to help integrate
immigrants. Government, churches, libraries, civic organizations and businesses
must cooperate to address this challenge, as they did a century ago.

Jeb Bush was governor of Florida from 1999 to 2007. Robert D. Putnam is the
Malkin professor of public policy at Harvard University's Kennedy School of
Government.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Headless myths from shameless leaders

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 790 words


Jan Brewer has lost her head.

The Arizona governor, seemingly determined to repel every last tourist dollar
from her pariah state, has sounded a new alarm about border violence. "Our law
enforcement agencies have found bodies in the desert either buried or just lying
out there that have been beheaded," she announced on local television.

Ay, caramba! Those dark-skinned foreigners are now severing the heads of
fair-haired Americans? Maybe they're also scalping them or shrinking them or
putting them on a spike.

But those in fear of losing parts north of the neckline can relax. There's not a
follicle of evidence to support Brewer's claim.

The Arizona Guardian Web site checked with medical examiners in Arizona's border
counties, and the coroners said they had never seen an immigration-related
beheading. I called and e-mailed Brewer's press office requesting documentation
of decapitation; no reply.

Brewer's mindlessness about headlessness is just one of the immigration
falsehoods being spread by Arizona politicians. Border violence on the rise?
Phoenix becoming the world's No. 2 kidnapping capital? Illegal immigrants
responsible for most police killings? The majority of those crossing the border
are drug mules? All wrong.

This matters, because it means the entire premise of the Arizona immigration law
is a fallacy. Arizona officials say they've had to step in because federal
officials aren't doing enough to stem increasing border violence. The scary
claims of violence, in turn, explain why the American public supports the
Arizona crackdown.

Last year gave us death panels and granny killings, but compared with  the
nonsense justifying the immigration crackdown, the health-care debate was an
evening at the Oxford Union Society.

Two months ago, the Arizona Republic published an exhaustive report that found
that, according to statistics from the FBI and Arizona police agencies, crime in
Arizona border towns has been "essentially flat for the past decade." For
example, "In 2000, there were 23 rapes, robberies and murders in Nogales, Ariz.
Last year, despite nearly a decade of population growth, there were 19 such
crimes." The Pima County sheriff reported that "the border has never been more
secure."

FBI statistics show violent crime rates in all of the border states are lower
than they were a decade ago -- yet Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) reports that the
violence is "the worst I have ever seen." President Obama justifiably asserted
last week that "the southern border is more secure today than any time in the
past 20 years," yet Rush Limbaugh judged the president to be "fit for the psycho
ward" on the basis of that remark.

Without question, illegal immigration and Mexican drug cartels are huge
problems. And there is a real danger that the alarming and growing violence in
Mexico could spread north. But beyond anecdotes -- the slaying of a rancher and
the shooting of a sheriff's deputy -- there is no evidence that it has.

Yet there is McCain -- second only to Brewer in wrecking Arizona tourism --
telling NBC, ABC and CNN that Phoenix is the "No. 2 kidnapping capital of the
world," behind only Mexico City. "False," judged Politifact, tracing McCain's
claim to a dubious report  by ABC News in February 2009. Law-enforcement
agencies generally don't track foreign kidnapping statistics, but experts said
rates are far higher in various Central American, African and Asian countries.
Reports of kidnapping in Phoenix, meanwhile, are declining.

Next, there's Brewer's claim that "the majority" of people immigrating illegally
"are coming here and they're bringing drugs, and they're doing drop houses and
they're extorting people and they're terrorizing the families. That is the
truth." No, it isn't. The Border Patrol's Tucson Sector has apprehended more
than 170,000 undocumented  immigrants since Oct. 1, but only about 1,100 drug
prosecutions have been filed in Arizona in that time.

The claim that illegal immigrants are behind most killings of law-enforcement
personnel is also bunk. Arizona state Sen. Sylvia Allen claimed that "in the
last few years 80 percent of our law enforcement that have been killed or
wounded have been by an illegal." A Phoenix police spokesman told the Arizona
Republic's E.J. Montini that the real figure for such killings is less than 25
percent, and that there are no statistics on the wounding of officers.

So what is this "terrible border security crisis" that Brewer says has only
"gotten worse"? She complained recently to Fox News's Greta Van Susteren about
the Obama administration's handling of the border: "They haven't did [sic] their
job."

But really the person who hasn't did her job is Brewer. She should screw her
head back on and start telling Americans the truth.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Health care. Wall Street. Energy. Immigration. Why the obsession with
all-or-nothing fixes has Washington running in circles.;
Health care. Wall Street. Energy. Immigration. Why the obsession with
all-or-nothing fixes has Washington running in circles.

BYLINE: Michael Lind

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1598 words


Washington has fallen in love with "comprehensive reform" -- legislation aimed
at solving all aspects of a big problem in one dramatic and history-making move.

We saw it with health care. Now comprehensive financial regulatory reform has
passed in the House, with a Senate vote expected soon. Up next may come energy
legislation, following President Obama's Oval Office speech last month
proclaiming a new "national mission" to wean America off fossil fuels.
Comprehensive immigration reform, which failed back in 2007, waits in the wings,
with the president calling for such an effort in a July 1 address. And a push
for comprehensive fiscal reform will surely come on the heels of the
recommendations this fall from Obama's deficit commission.

No doubt, the problems we face -- massive unemployment, a broken immigration
system, a malfunctioning financial sector -- are monumental. But it does not
follow that each complex, giant problem must be addressed by one complex, giant
bill. If anything, history shows that piecemeal reforms are often more lasting
than a legislative Big Bang.

Politicians are seduced by comprehensive reform because history tends to glorify
presidents and legislators who pass big, definitive laws. Sen. Henry Clay of
Kentucky, for example, is celebrated for averting the Civil War for a decade by
passing the Compromise of 1850, which temporarily resolved disputes over slavery
in territories that the United States gained in the Mexican War. But the
compromise came together only after a large omnibus bill failed; the legislation
was broken up into five smaller bills, each of which passed separately.

President Franklin Roosevelt set a high standard for legislative accomplishments
during the first 100 days of his administration in 1933, but here, too, popular
memory can mislead. While some of FDR's signature achievements, such as the
Glass-Steagall Act, passed during those early days of his presidency, his
central accomplishment of that period -- the National Recovery Administration --
was a flop that the Supreme Court ruled unconstitutional in 1935. One of the
most lasting achievements of the New Deal was Social Security, and it came in
1935, long past those 100 days.

And while President Lyndon Johnson is remembered for the Civil Rights Act of
1964, it was the culmination of increasingly bold civil rights laws in 1957 and
1960 that chipped away at segregation before the final push shattered American
apartheid.

Politicians and advocacy groups say they have no choice but to push for
all-encompassing reforms because the alternative -- slow, incremental change --
is doomed to fail. On health care, for example, advocates of comprehensive
reform said costs couldn't be contained unless the problem of increasing
coverage was solved, too. Similarly, proponents of an immigration overhaul
contend that you can't secure the borders without fixing the status of illegal
immigrants already living here.

On any issue, it seems, the pieces are all so connected that it is impossible to
solve one challenge without the rest. And time is never on your side, because
the titanic struggle to pass any reform will be so bruising that, succeed or
fail, shell-shocked lawmakers will shun the issue for years to come.

But there are three critical problems with comprehensive reform -- problems that
a more methodical, step-by-step approach could help remedy.

First, large-scale reforms give excessive leverage to politicians and groups
representing narrow interests. In the health-care battle, holdouts such as Sens.
Ben Nelson (D-Neb.) and Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) enjoyed disproportionate
bargaining power precisely because so much was at stake. And during the push for
immigration reform during the George W. Bush administration, business interests
forced the last-minute addition of a provision for hundreds of thousands of new
guest workers -- and helped doom the legislation by inspiring the opposition of
organized labor.

In such cases, the outcome might have been different if Congress had passed a
series of more limited bills, each with different sets of supporters, instead of
creating one giant victim that a small group of representatives and senators
could take hostage.

The second reason comprehensive reform is problematic is that it assumes an
ability to foresee problems and fix them in advance -- a skill not necessarily
found among mere mortals. The longer the time horizon, the greater the hubris of
those who claim to be solving problems not just for today but for generations to
come.

This overconfidence spans the political spectrum. For example, both liberal
environmentalists and conservative deficit hawks rely on sophisticated models to
predict dire threats decades away, whether a catastrophic rise in the Earth's
temperature or unsustainable entitlement spending. In each case, even slight
changes in the variables can make the remote future look either scary or benign.
But when scholarship gives way to advocacy, possible problems generations out
are often presented as all-but-certain disasters -- avoidable only by immediate
action.

In reality, we have no idea what the global temperature or the budgetary climate
will be like in 50 or 100 years. If the United States had adopted a
comprehensive energy strategy in the early 1900s, for example, it would have
been based on the assumption that known reserves of coal and oil would soon run
out. No one could have foreseen the oil reserves of Texas, the Middle East, West
Africa and the Gulf of Mexico (including the deep-sea reserves squandered by the
BP disaster). We could not have imagined nuclear energy or techniques to reach
enormous quantities of shale gas.

In the case of budgeting for entitlements, none of the designers of the Social
Security system foresaw the rapid expansion of the U.S. population following the
immigration reforms of the 1960s, which inevitably increased the number of
people receiving benefits. When Alan Greenspan's commission sought to fix Social
Security in the 1980s, it did not envision how the bubbles and busts of the
1990s and 2000s would reduce payroll tax revenues by annihilating jobs and
reducing wages. Efforts to anticipate the medium-term future are necessary, but
proposals to fix the problems of the remote future are dubious.

A third challenge is our tendency to define every issue as a problem with a
potential and distinct solution. This comes naturally to policy wonks and
bureaucrats, as well as politicians who like to brag about the reforms they're
leading and the legislation they're passing. However, if their rationalism were
informed by a sense of the tragic, and a sense of realism, they would understand
that some challenges are not problems to be solved, but situations to be
ameliorated or endured. Wisdom lies in knowing that there are some things --
such as irreducible levels of crime or terrorism, or environmental damage caused
by other countries -- that we just have to live with.

Instead of striding boldly into the future, we should grope our way cautiously
forward, ever ready to back up upon encountering an obstacle and always prepared
to consider an alternative path if the road is blocked, or to abandon the effort
and simply live with frustration if there is no way ahead. Instead of aspiring
to achieve irrevocable, comprehensive reform by the second Monday of next month,
let's consider reforms that are piecemeal and reversible if we discover they do
not work.

Today's financial reformers would do well to remember that Franklin Roosevelt's
administration dealt with financial regulation in numerous bills over several
years. The 1933 Glass-Steagall Act was modified by the 1935 Banking Act; the
Securities Act of 1933, which required public disclosure of corporate
information to shareholders, was followed by the 1934 Securities Exchange Act,
which created the Securities and Exchange Commission. So even during the Great
Depression, financial regulations were assembled piece by piece, not all at
once.

The same could go for immigration today. Although stronger enforcement at the
border and in the workplace is probably a political necessity before any new
attempts at legalizing the status of illegal immigrants can move forward, there
are some other pieces to bite off short of a single, all-encompassing reform
push. The backlog of green cards for legal immigrants can be cut by issuing
cards more rapidly, for example, so that legalizing the status of illegal
immigrants later will not seem unfair.

Congressional leaders appear to have learned the lesson of step-by-step reform
when it comes to economic stimulus. According to news reports, new stimulus
programs and aid to state and local governments may come in the form of smaller
packages that are less vulnerable to attack than the Troubled Assets Relief
Program and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.

Obama and Congress can learn even more from FDR, whose accomplishments were the
result more of ceaseless trial and error than of all-or-nothing reform. "The
country needs and, unless I mistake its temper, the country demands bold,
persistent experimentation," he declared during the 1932 campaign. "It is common
sense to take a method and try it: If it fails, admit it frankly and try
another. But above all, try something."

Michael Lind is policy director of the economic growth program at the New
America Foundation and the author of "What Lincoln Believed: The Values and
Convictions of America's Greatest President." He will be online at 11 a.m. on
Monday to discuss this article. Submit your questions before or during the
discussion.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 12, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Arizona's strikeout;
Move MLB's 2011 All-Star game out of Phoenix

BYLINE: Wade Henderson and Janet Murguia

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 659 words


Major League Baseball is preparing to host its All-Star game Tuesday, and
roughly one-third of the players who will be in Anaheim are African American and
Latino. Hispanic and African American players typically make up a third of all
those playing major-league ball, with hundreds more in the minors. Given the
diversity of today's game, it is especially frustrating that baseball
Commissioner Bud Selig remains silent about the nightmare next year's All-Star
game could pose for millions of Americans.

Major League Baseball is scheduled to play its 2011 All-Star Game in Phoenix,
where discrimination and racial profiling will effectively be sanctioned by
SB1070, Arizona's controversial new immigration law. Unless the league acts,
next year our favorite all-stars could enter a hostile environment, and the
families, friends and fans of a third of the players could be treated as
second-class citizens because of their skin color or the way they speak.

This law isn't about solving the immigration issue; it's about scapegoating, an
established practice in Arizona. For years, law enforcement agencies have
criticized the Maricopa County sheriff's office for not serving felony arrest
warrants in favor of conducting "saturation" sweeps in which hundreds of Latinos
have been indiscriminately arrested in order to find undocumented immigrants.
Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon has stated that "citizens are being stopped because
they are brown," and in a letter to the Justice Department he asked for a
federal investigation into Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio based on his
"pattern and practice of conduct that includes discriminatory harassment,
improper stops, searches, and arrests." And this was before SB1070 became law.

What is happening in Arizona is a regression from the freedoms we hold dear and
a violation of our civil rights and fundamental values. We are not asking Selig
to weigh in on immigration policy; we are asking him to take a stand against
bigotry and intolerance. Despite being petitioned by numerous  members of
Congress and civil rights, labor and social justice groups, Selig has not
adequately addressed the issue.

Thanks to the clause in the league constitution that directs the commissioner to
act in the "best interests of Major League Baseball," Selig has enormous
latitude in taking steps to preserve the integrity of the game. He should recall
key moments from our shared history: It was in the best interests of baseball
that led MLB in 1947 to defy widespread bigotry and the institutionalized racism
of Jim Crow laws and sign Jackie Robinson, finally integrating the game.

Surely the "best interests of baseball" include protecting players and millions
of fans of color, not allowing MLB to be perceived as condoning blatant
discrimination and injustice, and taking a stand for fairness, equality and
other values that Americans and baseball hold dear. Selig should stand up for
these players, these fans and these values.

Such a move would not be unprecedented. The NCAA does not allow post-season
events, such as the Final Four, to occur in states that fly the Confederate
flag. Years ago the NFL stood up to Arizona over its refusal to recognize the
Martin Luther King Jr. federal holiday and moved the 1993 Super Bowl. Those
sports institutions defended their players and fans, even though there was no
direct threat to their safety. The Arizona law, however, is a direct threat, and
Selig ought to take action.

If MLB wants to maintain the right to call baseball America's favorite pastime,
and preserve the legacy of Jackie Robinson, the All-Star game should not go to
Phoenix next year. Commissioner, for the sake of baseball players and millions
of fans, move the game.

Wade Henderson is president and chief executive of the Leadership Conference on
Civil and Human Rights. Janet Murguia is president and chief executive of the
National Council of La Raza, the largest U.S. Latino civil rights and advocacy
organization.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mario Tama/getty Images; Protesters outside Major League
Baseball's headquarters in New York City last week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

HISTORY

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 179 words


97 ORCHARD

An Edible History of Five Immigrant Families in One New York Tenement

By Jane Ziegelman

Smithsonian/Harper. 253 pp. $25.99

Modern American cuisine was born in 19th-century New York when immigrants forked
over their varied gastronomic habits. So says Jane Ziegelman in her delightful
book "97 Orchard." The subtitle, however, is a bit misleading. Ziegelman does
check in with five immigrant families in one Lower East Side apartment house,
but they are only bit players in a broader exploration of New York's culinary
evolution.

Throughout we see the rudiments of modern American cuisine. Here's the sphere of
ground beef that will one day become hamburger, and over there a vendor selling
15-cent pails of cabbage and corned beef -- early takeout. Immigrants also
contributed wursts, matzoh balls and spaghetti, among other staples. As
Ziegelman writes, "Native-born Americans, wary of foreigners and their strange
eating habits, pushed aside their culinary (and other) prejudices to sample
these novel foods and eventually to claim them as their own."

-- Timothy R. Smith

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration agency assailed over leak probe

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 583 words


The union representing Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers is accusing
the agency of unfairly targeting an agent investigators apparently suspect of
leaking information about controversial arrest quotas to the media.

Officials with the American Federation of Government Employees National Council
118 said Friday that they suspect that the agent is being harassed because his
surname is Asian, as is that of the reporter from The Washington Post who wrote
about the quotas. The union declined to identify the agent.

In a story published in March, Post reporter Spencer S. Hsu and the Center for
Investigative Reporting wrote about an e-mail that a senior ICE official sent to
agents announcing new arrest quotas. ICE distanced itself from the e-mails and
said it has since clarified its policy to agents.

"ICE leaders got caught doing something they shouldn't have been doing, and now
they want revenge and are targeting their own employees," Council 118 President
Chris Crane said Friday.

Crane said the agent, who does not want to be identified for fear of
retribution, has been questioned about the matter by ICE's Office of
Professional Responsibility (OPR). The agent has filed a complaint with the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Crane said.

ICE spokesman Brian Hale said Friday that "senior leadership in ICE did not
pursue or request any investigation into this matter." Hale declined to comment
further on who might have asked OPR to investigate the leaks. He also declined
to comment on the allegation that the agent was targeted because of his Asian
surname.

OPR probes allegations of misconduct, but Crane said it unfairly targets
rank-and-file workers.

Allegations of whistleblower retribution at ICE come amid a clampdown on leaks
and exposure to the media across the Obama administration. The Defense
Department is limiting media access to military officers after Gen. Stanley A.
McChrystal's comments to Rolling Stone magazine. It also charged an Army
intelligence officer this month with leaking a controversial video of a U.S.
airstrike in Iraq. Former National Security Agency official Thomas A. Drake was
indicted in April on charges of leaking classified information to a Baltimore
Sun reporter.

The Internal Revenue Service is facing criticism for not paying rewards to
whistleblowers who come forward with information on tax-evasion schemes.

"Some of these prosecutions wouldn't have happened when [George W.] Bush was
president, because there would have been a more partisan backlash," said Stephen
M. Kohn, executive director of the National Whistleblowers Center. "The problem
when you have a Democratic president -- it's not like Obama is signing the
indictment, but it mutes the criticism."

Federal whistleblowers face greater risks because of a weak Office of Special
Counsel (OSC), which lacks permanent leadership almost two years after Scott J.
Bloch resigned, Kohn said. Bloch resigned in 2008 after years of misconduct
investigations and is scheduled to be sentenced Tuesday on a misdemeanor charge
of contempt of Congress.

Rep. Darrell Issa (Calif.), ranking Republican on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, said Friday that the lack of stable leadership at
the independent OSC is "weakening an important whistleblower protection."

Issa's comments were made in a letter sent Friday to President Obama about the
lack of permanent leadership in at least 15 offices of inspector general.

The White House did not respond to requests for comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Local Digest

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 423 words

VIRGINIA

Fairfax man slain in California

 A Fairfax County man was fatally shot Sunday night on a street in downtown
Oakland, Calif., where he had traveled for a job interview with Google, Oakland
police said Monday.

Jinghong Kang, 45, was a computer engineer who lived in the Fair Oaks area of
Fairfax with his wife and three children, police said. The San Francisco
Chronicle reported that he was in his rental car, entering directions to his
hotel into his GPS system, when two men approached him. The men demanded money,
then one shot Kang while he sat in the car, the San Jose Mercury News reported.

-- Tom Jackman

Anti-gang operation leads to 30 arrests

Immigration authorities have arrested 30 alleged gang members and associates in
Northern Virginia, all but one of them foreign nationals, and charged them with
an array of crimes, including entering the United States illegally, federal
officials said.

The three-day operation by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
targeted members and associates of such Latino gangs as Mara Salvatrucha
(MS-13), Mexican Pride and Southside Locos, the agency said in a statement. One
of the arrestees is a U.S. citizen, and the others are from El Salvador,
Guatemala and Mexico.

Charges include assault, grand larceny, destruction of property, carrying a
concealed weapon and reentering the county illegally after being deported,
authorities said. They said the 29 foreign nationals will face deportation
proceedings in the near future or after they have been prosecuted on the
criminal charges against them.

The immigration agency said it was assisted in the operation by Fairfax County
police officers and sheriff's deputies.

-- Paul Duggan

 THE DISTRICT

Zoo euthanizes sick Speke's gazelle

The National Zoo euthanized an aged Speke's gazelle Monday because of  his
declining health.

The zoo said the 15-year-old animal, named Bati, was its only Speke's gazelle.
He was born at the St. Louis zoo in 1995 and came to the National Zoo in 1996.
Speke's gazelles are among the smallest of gazelles. They usually have a life
span of 12 years, the zoo said.

-- Michael E. Ruane

Closings planned on Kenilworth Ave.

Watch for overnight lane closings through Friday on Kenilworth Avenue (D.C.
295), where the District Department of Transportation is rebuilding the Eastern
Avenue Bridge. Two lanes will be closed from 8:30 p.m. to 5 a.m. Through traffic
will be directed to use the service roads.

Workers are installing the new, pre-cast bridge structure above Kenilworth
Avenue.

-- Robert Thomson

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

The ruling

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 144 words

The ruling

 U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton's ruling puts on hold the portions of the
law that drew the most objections, including:

-- Requirements that law enforcement officers, when possible, check a person's
immigration status while enforcing other laws.

-- Permission for law enforcement officers to make warrantless arrests of people
suspected of being illegal immigrants.

-- A provision making it illegal for undocumented workers to solicit employment
in public places.

-- A section making it a crime for immigrants not to carry registration papers
at all times.

REACTION

  Police chiefs shift plans, activists recalibrate and public tensions are
generally elevated in Arizona after the decision is handed down. A14

Online

washingtonpost.com/nation

6View a photo gallery from Benson, Ariz., read what Arizonans are saying, and
take a poll on the judge's ruling.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

In immigration uproar, an attorney with subtlety;
Kneedler brings experience, apolitical reputation to job arguing against Ariz.
law

BYLINE: Jerry Markon

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 883 words


Several years ago, Justice Department lawyer Edwin S. Kneedler argued his 100th
case before the U.S. Supreme Court, a benchmark shared by fewer than 10
attorneys in U.S. history.

In a rare departure from court routine, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.
congratulated Kneedler from the bench. Kneedler quietly thanked him, said he was
honored and walked away, according to lawyers who were there.

Now, Kneedler is bringing the same subdued style to a case that has attracted
loud political voices from all sides: the Obama administration's lawsuit over
Arizona's new immigration law. As the government's lead attorney, the deputy
solicitor general must fight a law that President Obama has strongly condemned
while not alienating Arizonans who fervently support it, all in the context of a
national struggle over the divisive issue of immigration.

Kneedler has won the first battle: A federal judge in Arizona this week granted
his request for a preliminary injunction blocking the most controversial
portions of the law, which allows police to question those they suspect of being
illegal immigrants. Arizona has appealed, and on Friday night an appellate court
set arguments for November, rejecting a state request for an expedited hearing.

Friends and former colleagues of Kneedler, who declined to comment Friday, have
described him as the quintessential government lawyer, a 35-year Justice
Department veteran with an encyclopedic memory. He is known for burying his head
in legal papers, documents that he transports in a weathered black satchel from
his Washington home to his office.

Kneedler, 64, has been in the solicitor general's office, the government's
advocate before the Supreme Court, since the Carter administration. He is no
stranger to politically charged cases: More than a decade ago, he argued the
government's position on whether young Cuban refugee Elian Gonzalez should be
sent home to his father, and he worked on briefs about whether Paula Jones's
sexual harassment case against President Bill Clinton should proceed with
Clinton in office.

In recent years, Kneedler has been involved in other legal controversies,
including the question of where terror suspects should be tried and whether
white firefighters in New Haven, Conn., were unfairly denied promotions because
of their race -- an issue in last year's confirmation hearings for Supreme Court
Justice Sonia Sotomayor.

Kneedler is widely described as apolitical. His first government boss, when he
joined the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel in 1975, was Antonin
Scalia, the future conservative Supreme Court justice.

In the insular world of Washington Supreme Court advocates, few are willing to
criticize colleagues. But former deputy solicitor general Lawrence G. Wallace,
who helped hire Kneedler into the solicitor general's office in 1979, said
Kneedler did make some enemies in the government over the years.

Wallace said Kneedler did not hesitate to argue with high-level political
appointees from across the government who were trying to force a particular
legal outcome.

"He was sometimes regarded as an obstacle by people who were trying to
accomplish certain policy objectives that the law would not support," Wallace
said. "Neither of us were always popular with some people in some
administrations."

Some lawyers said Kneedler's apolitical reputation made him a savvy choice for
the high-profile Arizona immigration case, even though it is unusual for a top
official in the solicitor general's office to argue before a U.S. district
judge. Kneedler is the senior career deputy -- there are four deputies in all --
and he served as acting solicitor general for several months in 2009 before
Elena Kagan was confirmed as solicitor general.

"The Justice Department wanted to show they were taking this case incredibly
seriously, but didn't want to send Obama's guy," said Tom Goldstein, a
Washington lawyer who founded the Scotusblog Web site. "I've never seen any hint
of politics in Kneedler. There really isn't a more respected advocate in the
Supreme Court bar.''

At this week's hearing in Phoenix before U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton,
Kneedler shook hands and chatted with Arizona's lead attorney, John J. Bouma. He
then fielded pointed questions from Bolton, never raising his voice and
consistently holding to his argument that the Arizona law intrudes on federal
immigration enforcement.

"He's tremendous on his feet during oral argument," said Patricia A. Millett, a
Washington lawyer who worked with Kneedler in the solicitor general's office for
11 years. She described Kneedler as "an incredibly hard worker" who often stays
at his Justice Department office into the night and works weekends.

Kneedler, a University of Virginia Law School graduate, is married with two
daughters. Unlike many colleagues who left public service to make more money in
private practice, friends said he stayed because he loves his job.

That longevity means Kneedler has now argued 109 cases before the Supreme Court,
32 more than any other active lawyer, according to the court clerk's office.
Wallace, who holds the 20th-century record with 157, said he is not worried
about Kneedler one day eclipsing his mark.

"Records are made to be broken," said Wallace, who retired in 2003. "Ed is an
extraordinary lawyer.''

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Mark Ralston/agence France-presse Via Getty Images; Sheriff's
deputies arrest an illegal immigrant this week in Arizona, where Kneedler
presented the Obama administration's legal objections to the state law.
IMAGE; Lonnie Tague / Department Of Justice; Edwin S. Kneedler is a veteran of
the solicitor general's office.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

At the cliff's edge on immigration

BYLINE: Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 706 words


Parents, you know how it is with kids. One acts up, and so you have to focus
your attention on the troublemaker and take your eye off the others. Then, when
you're not looking, another one gets out of line.

States are much the same way. The eyes of the nation are fixed on Arizona, the
undisputed problem child in our national immigration debate. But there are other
states where lawmakers are eager to follow Arizona's lead and blame Washington
for not solving a problem that, in truth, their own residents (i.e., employers)
helped create.

At least half a dozen of the states thinking about going on this suicide run can
perhaps be forgiven their ignorance because the experience of having a sizable
population of illegal immigrants is new to them. In Utah, Georgia, Ohio,
Maryland, Oklahoma and South Carolina, illegal immigrants are still a rather
exotic import.

But then there's Texas, which used to be part of Mexico and where lenient
immigration policies toward white settlers from the South and Northeast led to a
famous tenant dispute that included a dustup at the Alamo in 1836. In Tejas,
Latinos are indigenous and as ubiquitous as bluebonnets. In the Lone Star State,
where my mother and grandparents and great-grandparents were born and raised and
where I spent five years writing about immigration and other issues for the
Dallas Morning News, legislators should know better than to even flirt with the
idea of adopting a divisive and dangerous law like the one in Arizona.

This was true even before U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton, in defense of the
Constitution, ripped the guts out of the Arizona law by striking down its most
egregious and indefensible parts. Bolton had her pick of seven lawsuits seeking
to block the law's implementation, and she based her ruling on the lawsuit filed
by the Obama administration. The Justice Department argued that Arizona had
exceeded its authority and trampled on powers reserved for the federal
government.

Bolton agreed. She was particularly bothered by those elements of the law that
all but required racial profiling by forcing police officers to arrest people
they suspect are in the country illegally, made it a state crime for the
undocumented to seek work, required legal immigrants to carry papers proving
their status, and allowed police to detain and arrest people who could not prove
their legal status. So the judge issued a preliminary injunction against those
parts. The rest of the law -- which did things such as making it a state crime
to transport illegal immigrants -- was allowed to go into effect.

So much for Gov. Jan Brewer's bravado in telling the federal government that
Arizona would "meet you in court." This battle is far from over, and the issue
is probably headed to the Supreme Court. So far, it's Common Sense, 1, Arizona,
0.

But like the saying goes, common sense isn't always common -- even in Texas.
State Rep. Leo Berman, a Republican, is drafting an Arizona-style bill for Texas
and plans to introduce it next session.

Adding fuel to the bonfire, Texas Republicans recently adopted an over-the-top
platform at their state convention that, among other things, encouraged the
Legislature to create a Class A misdemeanor criminal offense "for an illegal
alien to intentionally or knowingly be within the state of Texas," and to
"oppose amnesty in any form leading to citizenship." Texas Republicans also want
to deny citizenship to the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants, ban
day-labor work centers, limit bilingual education to three years, and deny
non-U.S. citizens access to state or federal financial assistance for college.

In Texas, Latinos are forecast to make up nearly 80 percent of the population
growth over the next 30 years (compared with only 4 percent for whites), and
Latinos could outnumber whites by 2015, the San Antonio Express-News reported
last month. What the Texas GOP drafted was a pact with the devil.

All of which leads me to ask my friends in the Lone Star State the same question
my mom used to ask me growing up: "If all the other kids jumped off a cliff,
would you do the same?"

Apparently they would.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is syndicated by the Washington Post Writers Group. His
e-mail address is ruben@rubennavarrette.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                      July 7, 2010 Wednesday 11:00 AM EST

White House Debriefing Live Video

BYLINE: White House Debriefing

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 119 words


_______________________

White House Debriefing: The Justice Dept. has filed suit to block Arizona's new
immigration law.

_______________________

White House Debriefing: How did Tuesday's meeting between the president and
Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu go?

_______________________

White House Debriefing: The president is speaking today about his plan for
improving U.S. exports.

_______________________

White House Debriefing: Democrats digging harder than ever for dirt on
Republicans

_______________________

White House Debriefing: Calls for RNC Chair Michael Steele to resign.

Paul Williams: GOP Rep: Steele will cost us seats

_______________________

White House Debriefing: President travels to Kansas City and Las Vegas.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2010 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 15, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Obama priority shift could help his party;
Focus on financial rules, Supreme Court opinion might appeal to voters

BYLINE: Scott Wilson

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1401 words


Despite holding high-profile meetings last week on energy and immigration
reform, President Obama will focus the next few months on two issues that could
help his party in November: stronger financial regulations and ways to mitigate
a Supreme Court ruling that allows direct corporate spending on behalf of
candidates.

Those priorities, although still difficult to achieve in a partisan Congress,
are highly popular with the Democratic base and could force Republicans to
choose between supporting the president or defending Wall Street when much of
the country blames big business for the economic decline.

Such an agenda will give the rest of the legislative calendar, compressed by the
midterm election season, a distinctly political cast. It will also push energy
and immigration reform, two of Obama's most far-reaching campaign pledges, into
the next Congress, which is likely to be more influenced by the Republican
opposition.

Obama has been criticized for running an administration where policymaking is
too removed from political considerations, a gap seen clearly in drawn-out
efforts to close the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and to pass
health-care legislation. Even some within the administration's senior ranks have
leveled the critique privately.

In public appearances, Obama has asserted that his agenda is free of political
calculation, drawing a contrast with a Washington culture he campaigned to
change. Speaking last week in St. Charles, Mo., Obama said, "We've seen years,
decades, where Washington just puts off dealing with our toughest challenges
because it's too hard, because we don't know how the politics works."

But he appears to be doing just that. His post-health-care agenda, described by
senior administration officials publicly and privately last week, is far more
attuned to the politics of an election year during which his party will be
fighting to protect majorities in the House and Senate.

"The president and the people around him are increasingly aware of the political
consequences of having pursued comprehensive health care for an entire year,"
said William A. Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who served
as national policy adviser in the Clinton administration.

"They believe, and I believe they're right, that Congress's appetite,
particularly the Democrats' appetite, for more heavy lifts that will divide the
party and antagonize a portion of their constituency is very low," he said.
"They want, between now and November, to seamlessly align policy and politics
because the alternative would be the certainty of very large losses."

Don Stewart, spokesman for Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.), said
the administration's agenda is "surprising, given what citizens are asking for,
which is job creation."

"He told us in his State of the Union that priorities Number 1, 2 and 3 are
jobs," Stewart said. "I don't think trying to overturn a Supreme Court decision
is going to create any."

The White House meetings last week were intended to show a president confident
in his ability to secure health-care reform and already pivoting to the next big
item on his agenda.

But although Obama expressed a commitment to work for energy and immigration
reform, according to the meetings' participants, he did not pledge to take the
lead this year. The legislative calendar effectively ends at the August recess,
when the campaign season takes over.

Obama had earlier asked congressional leaders to build bipartisan coalitions in
support of energy and immigration reform efforts. But Democrats  are divided on
both issues, making them particularly unappealing in a year when party unity
will be important.

On Tuesday, Obama gathered 14 senators from both parties in the Cabinet Room to
discuss energy legislation, known as cap-and-trade. Also attending were four
Cabinet-rank officials.

According to participants, Obama said he would like the Senate to pass the bill
this year, but he made clear it was up to those in the room to come up with the
votes. Cap-and-trade legislation, which has passed the House, pits industrial-
and coal-state lawmakers against those with strong environmental lobbies.

White House press secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters, "It's got to be more
than the president who wants to get something done," adding that "my guess is
there will be a clamoring for an energy bill when gas prices go up" during the
summer driving season.

Asked what Obama would pursue after health care, Gibbs cited as "big priorities"
financial regulatory reform legislation, a push that will coincide with the
second anniversary of the financial collapse this fall, and legislation that
would roll back portions of the Supreme Court's ruling in Citizens United v.
Federal Election Commission.

In his State of the Union address, Obama sharply criticized the court's
decision, which allows corporations and unions to spend freely for and against
specific candidates. Corporate spending, which until now has had to pass through
political action committees, has traditionally favored Republican candidates.

There is little the administration can do to reverse the ruling, short of
pushing a constitutional amendment. But White House officials are weighing how
hard to push legislative proposals by Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Rep.
Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) that would put some restrictions on corporate
participation, such as requiring shareholders to approve political spending by
their companies.

On ABC's "This Week" on Sunday, David Axelrod, a senior Obama adviser, warned
that the high court's decision could bring about "a corporate takeover of our
elections."

"We've got important elections coming up," Gibbs told reporters last week. "And
the question is: Are the special interests going to play a bigger role in those
with their contributions than they normally would?"

Regarding the stronger regulations on the financial sector working their way
through the Senate Banking Committee, Gibbs said that "Republicans are going to
have to ask themselves why they would stand in the way of financial reform." He
said he is "very confident" Congress will pass a bill this year.

Gibbs said the administration will also pursue "a series of legislative
activities" designed to help small businesses and create jobs.

The size and shape of future job-creating measures will probably be left to
Democratic leaders on the Hill, given the White House's concern over the
prevailing public opinion that Obama is spending too much taxpayers' money on
such things as health-care reform and bailing out big banks and automakers.

Modest job-creating initiatives are consistent with the Democrats' election-year
strategy of proposing a series of politically popular bills that would force
Republicans, whom they have characterized as overly obstructionist, to choose
between supporting the measures or explaining their opposition in November.

On Thursday, Obama met first with a group of immigration reform activists and
then Schumer and Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), who are working on the issue.
For Democrats, the party splits geographically and philosophically over the best
way to manage the 11 million immigrants in the United States illegally.

The president led the meeting with the grass-roots activists, according to
participants, and brought along several senior advisers, including White House
political director Patrick Gaspard.

"We have the goal of passing it this year," said Eliseo Medina, executive vice
president of the Service Employees International Union, who attended the
meeting. "I think he wants to get it done this year. But the question is how."

Reform advocates plan to rally across the country Sunday, a way to pressure
lawmakers that Obama encouraged in the meeting. But they warned Obama of growing
disappointment among Latinos, the majority of whom supported the president in
the last election.

In a statement after the meeting, Obama said his "commitment to comprehensive
immigration reform is unwavering." He said he is "optimistic" reform will move
forward, but he did not say when.

On "This Week," Graham said, "A hastily called meeting Thursday because of a
rally next weekend is not unwavering; [it] is CYA," a salty acronym for
"covering your [butt]."

"This idea that this administration has been unwavering on immigration reform is
just political spin, and the people at the rally ought to know that," Graham
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Ethan Miller/getty Images; President Obama, shown in Nevada last
month, has been criticized for a policymaking focus that is too removed from
political considerations.
IMAGE; William B. Plowman/nbc Via Associated Press; David Axelrod, a senior
Obama adviser, says a recent Supreme Court ruling could bring about "a corporate
takeover of our elections."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Drugs and deportation;
Should two minor offenses erase any chance of forgiveness?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 430 words


JOSE ANGEL Carachuri-Rosendo was deported because of one tablet of Xanax.

This is the essence of a case on which the Supreme Court will hear arguments
Wednesday. Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo was convicted in Texas of marijuana possession
and, later, of possessing that tablet of Xanax, an anti-anxiety drug for which
he had no prescription. Both are misdemeanors; he served a 10-day jail sentence
for the Xanax. But the federal government argued in immigration court that had
Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo been prosecuted in the federal system, the Xanax charge
could -- as a second offense -- have been a felony.  And, that could trigger
mandatory deportation, stripping him of any chance to present a case for mercy
in immigration court.

Like many defendants whose cases end up before the Supreme Court, Mr.
Carachuri-Rosendo does not present as a sympathetic character. He has been
convicted of domestic-violence assault and, twice, of driving with an invalid
license. He was deported to Mexico in 2008, sneaked back into the country and
was once again arrested with a small amount of marijuana; this time, serving six
days in jail before again being sent back to Mexico.

But these additional offenses don't figure into the legal issues likely to be
considered by the Supreme Court -- and, as in many such cases, if the court gets
its decision wrong, people potentially far more deserving of another chance than
Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo could be hurt. Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo had been a lawful
permanent resident since 1993 and is subject to deportation for any criminal
act, even a minor one. But usually, after serving time or paying a fine in minor
cases, legal immigrants can appear before an immigration judge and plead their
case for staying in the United States. This is not so for legal immigrants
convicted of aggravated felonies, such as murder or drug trafficking. Here, the
immigrant has no right to challenge deportation, and immigration judges have no
choice but to order the removal. The government claims that Mr.
Carachuri-Rosendo's twin drug misdemeanors put him into this category.

The court should conclude that the government is wrong in this case. Congress
intended mandatory deportation for drug traffickers and other serious offenders,
not for those who possess minuscule amounts of marijuana or one anti-anxiety
pill. Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo is seeking the opportunity to convince an
immigration judge that he should stay in this country. The judge may well
disagree. But a questionable maneuver by the government should not deny him or
others like him of a chance to make  a case.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Deep in mourning, forgiveness still emerges;
Parents of DUI suspect in Virginia crash that killed nun find open arms at
monastery

BYLINE: Michelle Boorstein, Kevin Sieff and Paul Duggan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1162 words


About 8:30 Monday night, the doorbell rang at   St. Benedict Monastery in Prince
William County, and Sister Andrea Verchuck, the sub-prioress, rose from her desk
to see who was there. On the slate front porch stood a man and a woman.

"They looked contrite," said Verchuck, 81, who has lived with other nuns in the
wooded monastery for 66 years. The visitors' hands were at their sides, their
eyes cast down, as Verchuck greeted them.

"They said, 'We'd like to talk with someone about the sister who was killed,' "
she recalled.

The day before, Sister Denise Mosier, 66, riding in a car with two other nuns in
Prince William, had died in a collision with an alleged drunk driver. The other
nuns, 70 and 75, were critically injured. The man and woman at the monastery
door were the parents of the driver charged with manslaughter in the crash. They
had come to seek forgiveness for him.

The suspect, Carlos A. Martinelly-Montano, 23, is a Bolivian national whose
family says he entered the United States illegally in 1996 but was currently
working legally. His status has become a flash point in the heated debate over
immigration policy. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security began deportation
proceedings against Martinelly-Montano in 2008, after an earlier drunken driving
arrest. But immigration officials, citing privacy laws, have declined to explain
why his case still remains unresolved.

Amid the tangle of legal issues and cauldron of emotions surrounding
Martinelly-Montano's recent case, a moment of simple purity unfolded Monday
night, Verchuck said.  Alejandro and Maria Martinelly stood sobbing, telling
Verchuck how sorry they were, saying that their son, a father of two young
children, is a heavy drinker and that they had tried to set him straight.

"I said, 'Please get help for him so he can stop, or he won't be a good parent,'
" Verchuck recalled. And true to the spirit of her religious order, the
Benedictine Sisters of Virginia, she  said what they had hoped to hear:

"We wanted to let them know we hold no grudges."

'He's a good man'

Martinelly-Montano, who has a record of numerous motor vehicle offenses in
recent years, including drunken driving convictions in 2007 and 2008, was not
seriously injured in the crash  near Bristow. Besides manslaughter, punishable
by up to 10 years in prison, he has been charged with drunken driving and
driving after a license revocation. He is in custody at a hospital and has been
ordered held without bond,  said Prince William Commonwealth's Attorney Paul B.
Ebert.

When Maria Martinelly learned by phone Sunday morning that her family's Subaru
Outback had collided with a car carrying three nuns, killing one of them, she
thought of Carlos Martinelly-Montano, the oldest of her three sons, she said in
an interview.

"Oh my God -- how did he find the car keys?" she said.

The parents, who live in Prince William, said they had been hiding the keys
because of  his drunken driving convictions. They said that after an early
morning drinking binge, Martinelly-Montano found the keys in a closet and left.

Police said Martinelly-Montano was intoxicated when the family Subaru went out
of control on Bristow Road shortly before 8:30 a.m. and collided head-on with a
Toyota Corolla carrying the nuns, who  were going from their Richmond convent to
the Prince William monastery for a retreat. Sister Connie Ruth Lupton, 75, was
driving; Sister Charlotte Lange, 70, was in the front-passenger seat; Mosier was
in the back.

Maria Martinelly recalled  the conversation with Verchuck and a novice nun when
she and her husband visited the monastery. "He had a bad drinking problem, but
he's a good man," she told them.

The family entered the United States illegally in 1996, when their oldest son
was 8, they said, and spent more than a decade  as undocumented immigrants. In
2007,  the parents, their daughter and their oldest son got work permits from
the Department of Homeland Security, they said, even though they had been in the
country illegally. Anthony Guerrieri, a spokesman for the temporary employment
agency that hired Martinelly-Montano in April, said in an e-mail that the
suspect "successfully cleared the . . . employment verification process and upon
hire, was eligible for employment in the U.S."

Federal and local authorities, however, said they consider Martinelly-Montano to
be an illegal immigrant.

After Martinelly-Montano's second drunken driving arrest, in October 2008,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials filed papers in immigration court
that began his deportation proceeding, ICE officials said.

He was released on his own recognizance while awaiting a hearing. The hearing
was set for April 21, 2009, then postponed to May 7, 2009, then delayed until
Dec. 3, 2009, then rescheduled for Aug. 19. Citing privacy laws, officials
declined to specify the reasons for the postponements.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano "has ordered an immediate review
into the circumstances leading to this individual being released in 2008" and
why the proceeding was not completed, the agency said in a statement Tuesday.

"Why is it that this individual was driving?" Napolitano asked Monday at an
unrelated news conference. "He was in the removal process. Why did the removal
process take so long?"

Always by their sides

In the hushed, blue-walled waiting room outside the intensive-care unit at Inova
Fairfax Hospital, a flow of relatives and Benedictine nuns has steadily come and
gone since the crash.

Shortly before noon Tuesday, Sister Anne Marie Lange, 71, quietly made calls to
update others on her sister's  status -- critical but stable -- and to share the
news that  surgery would begin within the hour. Lange said she was optimistic
about her sister's recovery: "I know who she is, and she's a strong, beautiful
woman."

At the monastery in Bristow, a sign-up sheet was hung for volunteers to spend
time with the two  injured nuns in rotating shifts of at least two, Lange said.

"They've been here to sit with them, stroke their hands, talk to them," she
said. "We don't leave them alone. We love each other very much, and we're always
there for one another."

For 20 years, Charlotte Lange was the principal of her old high school, St.
Gertrude's, said Susan Walker, who now runs the school. "Sister Charlotte is
bigger than life," she said.

Walker said that the impact of the accident has been felt deeply at the school.
"We've had students calling all week in tears, just beside themselves," Walker
said.

Mary Ann Lamb, 57, was mourning the death of Mosier, her older sister.

"It's hard to encompass everything that she was," Lamb said of Mosier, who
became a nun nearly 50 years ago at age 18. She received a college degree in
English, taught in parochial schools and was a missionary in Africa. "She was
very full of life and had this zest for life, and yet she was very grounded and
focused in her direction to serve the Lord."

Staff writers Caitlin Gibson and Maria Glod contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Gerald Martineau For The Washington Post; Sister Christine
Vladimiroff speaks about forgiveness at the retreat the Richmond nuns were
headed to.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Mike Hethmon

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PG35

LENGTH: 431 words

Mike Hethmon

Age: 56

Residence: Upper Marlboro.

Education: BA, near eastern studies, UCLA; MIM, international management,
Thunderbird School of Global Management; JD, U. of Maryland.

Occupation: General counsel, Immigration Reform Law Institute.

Elected offices/civic activities: Member, Friends of Croom Civic Association;
pro bono public interest lawyering representing Prince George's rural citizens;
member, Trinity Community Church, Bowie.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"The massive $2.5 billion annual unfunded structural deficit in our state
budget, especially the $19,000 liability of every Maryland household for
unfunded state pension obligations. The problem is rooted in 112 years of
one-party rule in Annapolis, making the General Assembly the oldest oligarchy in
the Western Hemisphere, if not the entire world. The spineless incumbents raided
more than 40 trust funds to 'balance' the budget last spring, while protecting
funding for illegal aliens. Maryland is next in line for a California-style
fiscal collapse and chronic lingering recession, unless the voters 'clean house'
in Annapolis."

Why should voters elect you?

"To be represented by a nationally known drafter of good laws, a corruption
fighter and 100 percent citizens' advocate."

Web site:

http://www.mikehethmon.com

E-mail address:

info@mikehethmon.com

Antoinette 'Toni' Jarboe-Duley

Photo not available.

Age: 57

Residence: Marlton/Brandywine.

Education: BS, management/marketing, University of Maryland; Prince George's
Community College.

Occupation: Realtor, Q Williams Real Estate Associates; owner, Chancery Title &
Abstract; former Prince George's County employee.

Elected offices/civic activities: Past president, secretary, Women's Council of
Realtors, Prince George's chapter; member, Housing Affordability Committee,
Communications Committee, Annual Conference Committee, Maryland Association of
Realtors; past chairman, Marlborough Day; lifetime member, National Honor
Society; past president, student government, Frederick Douglass High School.

What is the most urgent problem facing your jurisdiction?

"Lack of accountability to the constituents of our county; runaway spending;
high taxes; declining home values; substandard education system; impending
transportation needs; over the years the current districts do not reflect
equality throughout the state and county."

Why should voters elect you?

"I will represent your best interests providing needed services with less taxing
for fair and just representation as your duly elected delegate."

Web site:

None given.

E-mail address:

None given.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Stephen Colbert brings truthiness about farm work to Capitol Hill

BYLINE: Dan Zak

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C09

LENGTH: 861 words


The comic pundit Stephen T. Colbert, with tongue in cheek but aimed to lash,
blustered his way in conservative character through a four-minute speech about
immigration reform in front of a House subcommittee Friday morning, a fake
blowhard before a panel of real pontificators. His message: Working on a farm is
so hard that Americans don't want to do it, so immigration and labor laws should
be reformed to allow illegal crop workers a clean path to citizenship.

"I don't want a tomato picked by a Mexican," Colbert testified. "I want it
picked by an American, sliced by a Guatemalan and served by a Venezuelan in a
spa where a Chilean gives me a Brazilian."

Colbert, the geekily debonair host of Comedy Central's satiric "Colbert Report,"
was a magnet for media professionals, tittering Hill staffers and out-of-place
war protesters. "Thank you for saving our corn, Stephen!" cried one attendee,
nonsensically, as Colbert took a seat before the committee in Room 2141 in the
Rayburn House Office Building.

His posture was ramrod straight, his suit dark, his tie raspberry, his shirt
crisp, his hair parted cleanly -- and perhaps ideologically -- on the left. He
spent most of the hearing with a look of delight on his face, his mouth partly
open in a crooked and amused state, like a doe-eyed freshman in his first class
at college.

In her opening statements, the chairwoman of the immigration subcommittee, Rep.
Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), compared Colbert to Bono. She thanked him for using his
celebrity to illuminate the plight of undocumented farm workers, who make up 50
percent to 75 percent of seasonal crop workers.

"Maybe we should spend less time watching Comedy Central and more time thinking
about real jobs that are out there," said Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), who added
that he respects American workers who "prefer the aroma of fresh dirt than the
sewage of American elitists."

Colbert smiled wide, obviously respecting the dig, as the crammed gallery
murmured.

A panel of expert witnesses tossed out labor statistics during their opening
statements as Colbert futzed with his shirt cuff and stole glances at his watch.
He and Lofgren met on a vegetable farm in upstate New York last month. For a
taped segment, Colbert participated in the United Farm Workers' "Take Our Jobs"
program, designed to illustrate that illegal farm workers are not taking jobs
that Americans are willing to do. Out of 8,600 inquiries, only seven people have
taken a full-time farmworking job through the program.

"Most of the food on your table has been harvested and cared for by unauthorized
workers," said Arturo Rodriguez, president of United Farm Workers and a recent
guest on "The Colbert Report." "U.S. agriculture would need to hire 1 million
citizens to replace the immigrant laborers. Mass deportation of agriculture
workers would cause the collapse of the agriculture industry as we know it."

"I'm a free-market guy," Colbert said when it was his turn to speak. "Normally
I'd leave this to the invisible hand of the market. . . . But the invisible hand
has moved farm work to Mexico" because of the lack of available labor in the
United States. If Congress passes the AgJobs Act -- intended to provide legal
farm labor and secure the rights of immigrant workers -- "Americans may consider
taking jobs once conditions are better," Colbert continued, sarcasm creeping
across his face. "I trust both sides will work on this together in the best
interests of the American people -- as you always do."

Some committee members and witnesses criticized the Take Our Jobs program --
"The name itself implies the jobs belong to someone else," said Vanderbilt
University law professor Carol M. Swain -- and the idea that Americans are
averse to toil, especially in rocky economic times. King at one point implied
that Colbert may not have actually loaded corn during his visit to the New York
farm, and Rep. Charles Gonzalez (D-Tex.) yielded his time so the funnyman could
respond.

Colbert: "Were you implying that I was not actually doing work I was depicted as
doing?"

King: "I was watching you unloading crates rather than loading crates. It looked
like corn was going in the wrong direction."

Gonzalez: "Which direction is the corn going, Mr. Colbert?"

Colbert: "I put it in the trucks and iced it down so it wouldn't go through the
process where sugar turns to starch. I was a corn-packer. I know that term is
offensive to some people because corn-packer is a derogatory term for a gay
Iowan."

Gonzalez: "I will definitely reclaim my time at this point."

Toward the end of the otherwise ponderous and inconclusive two-hour hearing,
Rep. Judy Chu (D-Calif.) asked Colbert why he was interested in the issue.

The arrogant anchorman's mask of sarcasm appeared to vanish.

"I like talking about people who don't have any power," he said, the bravado
gone from his voice as he worked his way to a downer of a punch line. "It seems
like the least powerful people in the United States are migrant workers who come
here. . . . And at the same time, we invite them here and ask them to leave. . .
. I don't want to take anyone's hardship away from them [but] migrant workers
suffer and have no rights."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Nikki Kahn/the Washington Post; On topic? Colbert brought
Brazilian waxes into the discussion.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Justices consider case on parent gender, citizenship

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 815 words


A majority of Supreme Court justices may be bothered by an immigration law that
treats American fathers differently than American mothers. But it seemed
unlikely after an hour-long oral argument Wednesday that a majority of justices
thought they could do anything about it.

The court was considering a challenge to a federal statute that makes it easier
for unmarried mothers than unmarried fathers to convey American citizenship to
children born outside the country.

Ruben Flores-Villar, who was born in Mexico but raised by his father in San
Diego, says he is a victim of the double standard. Fighting criminal charges,
Flores-Villar, now 36, was denied citizenship and deported because his father
did not meet the law's requirements.

But conservative justices told Flores-Villar's lawyer, Steven F. Hubachek, that
granting citizenship to someone born outside the United States is a power that
belongs to Congress, not the court.

"Do you have any other case where a court has conferred citizenship on someone
who, under the statutes as written, does not have it?" asked Justice Antonin
Scalia.

"The court has not said that yet, but it can in this case," Hubachek replied.

"Never done," Scalia answered.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said Hubachek was asking for a remedy that "involves
this court in a highly intrusive exercise of the congressional power."

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. joined them.

He asked the government's lawyer defending the law that "if the court were to
determine that this does violate the Equal Protection Clause, and the court were
also to determine that this is not a case that should be the first one in
history in which it grants naturalization, what do you think the court ought to
do?"

Deputy Solicitor General Edwin S. Kneedler answered that the court should make
it equally hard for the children of mothers to gain citizenship, rather than
making it easier for Flores-Villar.

There is no dispute that the federal law differentiates between men and women.
For those born before 1986 - Flores-Villar was born in 1974 - their unwed
American fathers had to have lived in the United States for 10 years, at least
five of them after age 14, in order for their citizenship to be passed on.
(Flores-Villar's father was only 16 when his son was born, so it was impossible
for him to qualify.)

Unmarried American mothers need only have lived in the country continuously for
a year before the birth of a child.

The law was changed in 1986 to shorten the residency time for fathers to five
years, only two of which had to be after age 14, but the requirement for mothers
remained the same.

Hubachek said Congress's requirements were "based upon gender stereotypes that
women, not men, would care . . . for non-marital children."

Asked Scalia: "What separates a stereotype from a reality?"

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg jumped in to answer. "In all cases, it is true in
general, but there are people who don't fit the mold," she said. "So a
stereotype is true for maybe the majority of cases."

For Ginsburg, the case may have seemed like old times, when she was a pioneering
lawyer on the other side of the bench scouring federal statutes for places where
men and women were treated differently.

During the argument, she seemed to be an advocate of Flores-Villar, and invoked
several of the cases she had worked on as a lawyer for the American Civil
Liberties Union. Her favorite tactic in eliminating gender discrimination was to
represent men who were affected by such laws.

In this case, she said, "Congress has passed a statute making certain people
citizens and the question is: Has it done so in a way that is compatible with
equal protection?"

Kneedler said Congress had justifiable reasons for differentiating between
mothers and fathers. It has to take into account laws of the country in which
the child is born, he said, and governments have an interest in making sure the
child is not "stateless." It is obvious who a child's mother is, he said, but
not always his or her father.

The court decided in a previous case, Nguyen v. INS, that the government could
impose additional requirements on unwed fathers who wanted to transfer
citizenship to children without violating the equal protection clause.

Ginsburg and Justice Stephen G. Breyer were dissenters in that case, and, along
with Justice Sonia Sotomayor, were the most critical of the government in the
current case.

Only eight justices are hearing the Flores-Villar case because Elena Kagan, the
court's newest member, is recused. That raised the possibility that the justices
could reach a tie, which would allow a lower court's decision against
Flores-Villar to stand.

Scalia wondered whether the justices should even decide the merits of the case,
because he thought that none of the remedies available to the court would do
anything for Flores-Villar.

The case is                 Flores-Villar v. U.S.

barnesb@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                                Regional Edition

History lessons in Arizona

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 287 words


By banning the teaching of ethnic studies in Tucson and the rest of the state
["Outlawing heritage," op-ed, May 14], Arizona has swept away any pretense that
its draconian immigration law was aimed only against people who are in this
country illegally.

Arizona has now made it against the law for American teachers to teach American
children of Mexican descent about their history in an American classroom. Under
the law's logic, it also would be illegal to teach African American children
about slavery, segregation or the civil rights movement, and to teach Irish
American children about the Know-Nothing anti-immigrant bigotry of the 19th
century. If I were an Arizona schoolteacher, I would be careful to seek legal
advice before teaching students about the Holocaust.

I am only glad that when I went to school in Tucson as a young child many years
ago, there was more sanity and tolerance in the state, at least as far as I
could tell. Arizona is becoming a Grand Canyon of hate.

Roger Algase, New York

--

I am all for ethnic studies, as long as the ethnicity being studied is different
from that of most of the students.

Mexican studies would be a wonderful addition to the curriculum in places where
Mexicans are rarely found -- such as in Idaho or in Maine. In places such as
Arizona, however, where schools are heavily populated with children of Mexican
descent, ethnic studies should focus on learning about Armenians or the Amish.

The problem with ethnic studies is not the subject matter. It is the patronizing
notion that people of color are somehow incapable of learning, or of
establishing a healthy self-esteem, unless their heritage is at the center of
the lesson plan.

Constantinos E. Scaros, Schaefferstown, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Obama's aunt is granted asylum in U.S.;
Ruling comes 6 years after original deportation order

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND


A U.S. immigration court has granted asylum to President Obama's African aunt,
allowing her to stay in the country six years after she was ordered deported,
her attorneys announced Monday.

Kenya native Zeituni Onyango, 57, is the half-sister of Obama's late father. The
basis for her asylum request was never made public.

"The asylum process is confidential, and she wants to keep it that way, so we
can't get into details on why the judge granted asylum or the exact basis for
her claim," said her attorney, Scott Bratton. "She doesn't want people to feel
sorry for her."

Another attorney, Margaret Wong of Cleveland, said last year that Onyango first
applied for asylum "due to violence in Kenya." The East African nation has been
fractured by cycles of electoral violence every five years.

People who seek asylum must show that they face persecution in their homeland on
the basis of religion, race, nationality, political opinion or membership in a
social group.

Medical issues also could have played a role. In a November interview, Onyango
said she was disabled and was learning to walk again after being paralyzed from
Guillain-Barre syndrome, a rare disorder in which the immune system attacks the
nerves.

When Onyango testified in February at a closed hearing in Boston, she arrived in
a wheelchair, and two doctors testified in support of her case.

Onyango moved to the United States in 2000. Her first asylum request was
rejected, and she was ordered deported in 2004. But she did not leave the
country and continued to live in public housing in Boston.

Onyango's status as an illegal immigrant was revealed just days before Obama was
elected in November 2008. Obama said that he did not know his aunt was living
here illegally and that he thought the laws covering the situation should be
followed.

A judge later agreed to suspend Onyango's deportation order and reopen her
asylum case.

Wong has said that Obama was not involved in the Boston hearing. Obama spokesman
Nick Shapiro said Monday that the White House had no involvement in the case at
any point in the process.

Onyango plans to apply for a work visa and then for a green card, her attorneys
said.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Josh Reynolds/associated Presst; Zeituni Onyango, the sister of
the president's late father, came from Kenya in 2000.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 16, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Arizona's immigration debate

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 405 words


Regarding Wade Henderson and Janet Murguia's July 12 op-ed, "Arizona's
strikeout":

In calling for Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig to move the 2011
All-Star Game from Phoenix, Mr. Henderson and Ms. Murguia point out that
baseball is a diverse game, with roughly one-third of its rosters made up of
African Americans and Latinos. The situation is similar in  Phoenix, where 40
percent of our population is Latino.

But you punish all of us when you boycott Arizona. The Arizona of S.B. 1070
isn't the only Arizona. S.B. 1070 is not the big-hearted state trying to
strengthen a struggling economy, encourage diversity and fight an overbroad,
potentially discriminatory law. That Arizona, intensely committed to justice,
needs your help, not your deaf ear and scorn.

Arizona was the second state to elect a Hispanic governor and the first state to
pass a Martin Luther King Jr. holiday at the polls. Every March, our city
celebrates Cesar Chavez's birthday not only with a paid holiday but also with a
day of service citywide.

Don't punish the many for the decisions of a few.

Phil Gordon, Phoenix

The writer is the mayor of Phoenix.

--

Regarding the July 7 editorial "Suing Arizona":

The Post editorial board certainly has the right to promote a "pathway to
citizenship" for illegal immigrants. It is regrettable, however, that its pages
have never contained a balanced view of the pros and cons of approaches to
addressing illegal immigration; or mentioned that The Post's favored approach
was tried in 1986 and totally failed. Three million people were legalized, and
now we are dealing with 12 million illegal residents. What is really
objectionable in The Post's editorials is their consistent pejorative labeling
of those holding different views. This editorial infers that the Arizona law may
be "reprehensible and shortsighted" and notes that "xenophobia and
fear-mongering" are the main reasons hindering passage of another 1986-like
bill. Other Post articles have referred to "racism" and "nativism" as the
driving forces behind opposition to the current bill. An objective analysis of
this issue can quickly identify powerful reasons for not repeating a failed
policy -- and for not rewarding illegal behavior.

The Post needs to better perform its public duty of presenting all sides of an
issue, encourage honest debate based on facts and avoid the blanket denigration
of those who hold opposing views.

Willard Shaw, Derwood

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved
