
                               1 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

A Policy Patchwork

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 417 words


In Virginia, state law requires that Immigration and Customs Enforcement be
notified if a suspect booked into a local jail was not born in the United
States, is not a U.S. citizen or gives unclear answers to questions about
citizenship or birthplace. Many Maryland jails, including those in the
Washington suburbs, also tell ICE about foreign-born inmates, although experts
said no state law requires it and not all jails do so immediately.

Local law enforcement agencies vary in their approaches toward identifying
illegal immigrants:

Â· Alexandria: Police generally don't ask suspects about their status.

Â· Anne Arundel: Police alert ICE when an officer "reasonably believes" someone
under arrest is a foreign national or has provided false documentation. The
officer can follow up with local immigration officers if more investigation is
needed.

Â· Arlington: Police may inquire about the immigration status of those under
arrest for a violent felony or suspected of criminal street gang activity.
Jailers also contact ICE when inmates present suspicious or forged
identification documents.

Â· Charles: Sheriff's officers do not generally ask suspects about their status
but aren't prohibited from doing so.

Â· The District: D.C. police are prohibited from asking about status for the
purpose of enforcing immigration laws, and the city jail does not alert ICE when
an inmate reports being foreign-born.

Â· Fairfax: County police do not generally ask suspects about their status.
Starting this month, cameras and microphones at the jail will allow ICE agents
to do remote interviews with inmates suspected of immigration violations.

Â· Frederick: Sheriff's deputies can launch immigration probes during criminal
investigations. Jailers screen all inmates for immigration violations, often
questioning them closely, and can lodge federal immigration detainers
themselves.

Â· Loudoun: Specialized sheriff's deputies trained by ICE are called in to
question people suspected of being in the country illegally, even those held for
minor violations.

Â· Prince George's: The County Council has directed police to refrain from
enforcing immigration law. Suspects wanted only for possible immigration
violations are released unless federal agents can immediately take them into
custody. As a practical matter, such transfers rarely occur.

Â· Prince William: Police officers are required to ask about the immigration
status of any suspect arrested for any violation of state or local law.

Source: Local and federal officials

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Managers Indicted in Immigration Case

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Nov. 21


A federal grand jury has issued a 12-count indictment alleging that managers
were intricately involved in efforts to employ illegal workers at a kosher
slaughterhouse that was the site of one of the nation's largest immigration
raids.

The indictment includes three new defendants -- Brent Beebe, Hosam Amara and
Zeev Levi -- who had not previously faced federal charges in connection with the
Agriprocessors plant in Postville. The indictment was issued Thursday and
unsealed Friday.

Former chief executive Sholom Rubashkin and human resources worker Karina
Freund, who were already facing federal charges, also were named in the
indictment.

The superseding indictment pulls together a handful of cases pending against
Agriprocessors employees and lists charges including conspiracy to harbor
undocumented immigrants for profit; harboring and aiding and abetting
undocumented immigrants for profit; conspiracy to commit document fraud; aiding
and abetting document fraud; aiding and abetting aggravated identity theft; and
bank fraud.

Federal immigration agents raided the northeastern Iowa plant in May and
arrested 389 workers. Arrests of Agriprocessors managers have come in the
following months, as have state charges alleging labor and safety violations.

Court records show that Beebe, the plant's operations manager, was arrested
without incident at noon Friday at the Agriprocessors plant. The U.S. attorney's
office said the public's help is being sought in the apprehension of poultry
managers Amara and Levi.

Calls to attorneys for Rubashkin and Freund were not immediately returned. Beebe
was being arraigned Friday afternoon, and no attorney had yet been appointed.

The indictment includes new details of previous allegations, including a meeting
in a plant barn between Rubashkin and Beebe. The two allegedly discussed
lending money to several workers who could not afford new documents.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Around the Nation

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 474 words

Armed Forces to Recruit More Legal Immigrants

 Struggling to find enough doctors, nurses and linguists for wars, the Pentagon
will temporarily recruit foreigners who have been living in the United States on
student and work visas, or with refugee or political asylum status.

Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has authorized the Army, Navy, Air Force and
Marine Corps to recruit legal residents whose critical medical and language
skills are "vital to the national interest," officials said, using for the first
time a law passed three years ago.

Though the military previously has taken recruits with green cards seeking
permanent residency, Gates's action allows the services to start a one-year
pilot program to find as many as 1,000 foreigners who have lived in the States
legally for at least two years on certain types of temporary visas.

The new recruits into the military would get accelerated treatment toward
becoming citizens.

Border Official Faces Charge

BOSTON -- A top Homeland Security official in Boston was accused of repeatedly
hiring illegal immigrants to clean her home, even warning one not to leave the
country " 'cause once you leave, you will never be back." Lorraine Henderson,
the regional director of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Protection, was
arrested at her home in Salem, Mass. She was charged with harboring an illegal
immigrant. If convicted, Henderson faces as much as 10 years in prison. As part
of her duties as Boston area port director, Henderson is responsible for
stopping illegal immigrants from entering the country through all air and sea
international ports in Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts. She commands
190 border protection officers.

Gun Ban Eased in National Parks

A new Interior Department rule allows an individual to carry a loaded weapon in
a park or wildlife refuge -- but only if the person has a permit for a concealed
weapon, and if the state where the park or refuge is located also allows loaded
firearms in parks. The rule overturns a Reagan administration-era regulation
that has restricted loaded guns in parks and wildlife refuges. The previous
regulations required that firearms be unloaded and placed somewhere that is not
easily accessible, such as in a car trunk.

Sen. Stevens Fights Conviction

Sen. Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) has asked a judge to give him a new trial or throw
out his felony conviction of lying on Senate financial documents. In court
papers, Stevens alleges a multitude of problems with his conviction, including
complaints about the jurors, Justice Department prosecutors and the trial
judge's decisions.

Marriage Proposal Turns Deadly

NESKOWIN, Ore. -- A marriage proposal on the Oregon coast turned deadly for the
bride-to-be when a wave swept her out to sea. Police do not suspect foul play in
Leafil Alforque's disappearance.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 23, 2009 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Timing Immigration Reform

BYLINE: T. Alexander Aleinikoff

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 813 words


The Obama administration recently signaled interest in beginning a discussion on
comprehensive immigration reform before year's end. It might seem that a severe
economic downtown is not the best time for a major legislative initiative on
immigration. But starting this conversation now makes sense for several reasons.

First, the level of undocumented migration into the United States has dropped
because of the downturn; consider the significant reduction in the number of
would-be crossers apprehended at the southwest border. Second, one of the major
issues that served as an obstacle in 2007, the last time Congress debated
comprehensive reform, appears to have been removed. The 2007 legislation
included a large-scale temporary worker program, which most labor unions
opposed. But immigrant advocacy groups have tabled these proposals, recognizing
the difficulty of pushing such a program with unemployment approaching double
digits.

The most difficult part of a discussion on immigration reform is what to do
about the 10 million to 12 million undocumented workers and their families
living in the United States. Republican opposition to an "amnesty" program was a
major reason for the defeat of the 2007 reform proposal. The economic crisis is
sure to fuel that same opposition: Why, it will be asked, should we give
undocumented workers a legal status that permits them to compete for jobs with
unemployed Americans?

Some of the short-term answers will be persuasive. A legalization program, by
taking workers out of the shadows, will free up the entrepreneurial spirit of
individuals who have already shown motivation and hard work in coming to the
United States. Furthermore, a legal workforce will be better able to advocate
for "legal workplaces," where employers comply with wage, safety and other labor
laws.

A better answer focuses on the longer term. Comprehensive immigration reform
should seek to accomplish two major goals: providing some form of legal status
to undocumented workers who meet certain conditions (knowledge of English,
payment of taxes, absence of a criminal record) and ensuring that we don't
immediately see the build-up of a new undocumented population -- due to
continued lax enforcement and the perceived likelihood of a future legalization
program.

It is clear that we cannot credibly deter the hiring of unauthorized immigrants
unless the government implements a system that can accurately verify the
authenticity of documents that are presented to employers. Some members of
Congress are urging the extension of the voluntary verification system -- called
E-Verify -- to all U.S. employers.

But it is far too soon for this. E-Verify cannot, at this point, adequately
protect against "false negatives" (when the electronic system, due to inaccurate
information in government databases, fails to verify the status of a lawful
worker). Even if E-Verify is correct 99 percent of the time, imposing the system
nationwide on a workforce of 150 million means that hundreds of thousands of
workers could still be denied jobs because of errors in the databases.
Furthermore, E-Verify cannot detect identity theft or identity "borrowing" --
that is, when an employee presents the legitimate papers of another person.

Nor are federal agencies prepared for a massive legalization. A program that
could provide legal status to 10 million or more people would require the hiring
of a large number of federal employees; the forging of public-private
partnerships; and the development of technology for online applications, systems
of document verification and recordkeeping.

Immigration reform legislation could link these two goals, authorizing the start
of a legalization program once a reliable verification system has been
developed. Ultimately, that could result in a dramatic decrease in the
undocumented population in the United States and fair reason to believe that
future undocumented entry could be deterred.

Another benefit of beginning work on immigration reform now is that immigration
raids on workplaces and communities could stop. Targeting employers who violate
immigration laws with impunity makes good sense and is consistent with the
long-term goal of legal workplaces. Less justifiable is disrupting communities
and families by deporting workers who would be  likely to receive legal status
if Congress enacted a comprehensive reform package.

The substantial lead time needed for creating  a credible verification system
and an effective legalization program provides another argument for beginning
the conversation on comprehensive immigration legislation soon. And by the time
these new programs would come into force, improvement in the economy would
probably  make legalization efforts less controversial.

The writer is dean of Georgetown University Law Center and a member of the board
of trustees of the Migration Policy Institute.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Matt Bush -- The Hattiesburg American Via Associated Press;
Detainees from an Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid at a Laurel, Miss.,
factory are escorted out of the federal courthouse in Hattiesburg in 2008.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 23, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Latino Clergy Say Census May Hurt Illegal Workers

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 484 words


A national coalition of Latino pastors this week urged illegal immigrants to
boycott the 2010 census until Congress passes comprehensive immigration reform,
a move other groups criticized as detrimental to ensuring a full count of the
nation's fastest-growing minority group.

The Rev. Miguel A. Rivera, chairman of the National Coalition of Latino Clergy
and Christian Leaders, which claims more than 20,000 members in 34 states, said
that he and other church leaders are concerned about the potential for
authorities to use Census Bureau population data against undocumented workers
and their families.

"We understand that our undocumented people want to be counted and they want to
understand the true American dream, but why use them as a scapegoat just to get
money for our cities and persecute them or deport them after the fact?" Rivera
said in an interview.

While he alleged that state and local governments have unfairly interpreted
census data to target or marginalize immigrant groups, Rivera could not cite
specific documented examples of federal manipulation or improper sharing, which
is prohibited by law and punishable with fines and up to five years in prison,
according to Census Bureau spokesman Stephen Buckner.

"The job of the Census Bureau is to count all residents living in the United
States regardless of immigration status," Buckner said. "It is safe to
participate in the census, because we do not share the information with any
other law enforcement agency, government entity or private party."

Regardless, Rivera said, "if comprehensive immigration is done before December
31, the census will be accurate, excellent, honest and everyone will benefit."

Other Latino leaders oppose the boycott, saying it could jeopardize efforts to
boost Hispanic participation by reinforcing misplaced fears.

"I understand their need to ask the community to band together and have a call
to action, however that call to action should not be not answering the phone or
the door when the census comes around," said Maria Teresa Peterson, executive
director of VotoLatino, one of several groups working to ensure greater Latino
participation.

Angelo FalcÃ³n, president of the National Institute for Latino Policy and a
longtime member of a Census Bureau advisory committee on Hispanics, said the
pastors "are trying to find ways to leverage their position and put pressure on
the administration" to promote and help pass immigration reform. Recent
Republican concerns about potential White House involvement in the census also
may have helped inspire the boycott, he said.

"A lot of us don't understand how you use the census to leverage politically,
because a lack of participation takes away so much from the Latino community
itself," he said.

The Census Bureau will begin a multimillion-dollar ad campaign early next year
in hopes of boosting participation among traditionally undercounted ethnic
minorities.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Assembly Races to Hammer Out Bills;
Md. Chambers Are At Odds on Licenses

BYLINE: John Wagner, Lisa Rein and Rosalind S. Helderman; Washington Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 906 words


The Maryland House and Senate passed conflicting proposals yesterday to curtail
the state's practice of issuing driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants,
setting a difficult course for compromise in the remaining two weeks of the
legislative session.

The action came as lawmakers labored into the night to meet a key deadline on
dozens of bills. Legislation giving judges more authority to take firearms from
people accused of domestic violence won Senate approval. And the Senate advanced
a bill to partially return to state regulation of Maryland's energy supply --
although that measure's ultimate fate is far from certain.

After impassioned debate, the House voted 77 to 60 in favor of a bill that would
allow undocumented immigrants holding driver's licenses to keep them but shut
the door to new applicants June 1. Maryland is one of four states, and the only
one east of the Colorado Rockies, that grants driving privileges to illegal
immigrants.

Hours later, the Senate voted 36 to 11 for more conservative legislation that
would require all license applicants to verify their legal presence in the
country to receive a license.

Both bills would comply with a federal security law known as Real ID, which
calls on states to issue a nationally recognizable, secure driver's license.
Critics of the House approach said it would allow the fraud that has plagued the
system to continue, keeping Maryland a magnet for immigrants from other states
who seek licenses.

"We're creating permanent amnesty for people who came here uninvited," said Del.
Patrick L. McDonough (R-Baltimore County).

But supporters of the House bill said that denying licenses to those who have
them would compromise driving safety because undocumented immigrants would
continue to drive with neither license nor insurance.

"You want to call it amnesty? Let's call it amnesty," said Del. Joseline A.
Pena-Melnyk (D-Prince George's). "It means that you have a heart. What do you
think is going to happen to [the immigrants] when they can't take their kids to
school? . . . I respectfully ask you to let them keep their licenses."

Sen. Richard S. Madaleno Jr. (D-Montgomery) suggested his colleagues had "become
caught up in fear" over the politics of immigration.

Bills that did not pass at least one chamber by the end of yesterday's floor
sessions will be subject to additional procedural hurdles in the remaining weeks
of the 90-day legislative session.

Votes in the Senate all but assured that gun restrictions on domestic abuse
suspects, a top priority for Gov. Martin O'Malley (D), will become law this
year.

Under one of the bills, approved 31 to 16, a judge could order abuse suspects to
give up their guns when served with a seven-day temporary protective order if
they had threatened violence or threatened to use a gun. The other bill,
approved by the same margin, would require judges to confiscate guns from anyone
issued a more serious final protective order.

The House has passed similar legislation.

Late last night, the Senate advanced one of the session's more controversial
measures, a bill that would give the Public Service Commission the authority to
order power plants to be built, moving the state back toward a more regulated
utility system. Lawmakers deregulated the utilities in 1999. But a final vote
was put off until later this week.

The idea has support in the Senate, although Senate leaders acknowledge that
customers would not see any immediate relief from higher heating and electricity
bills.

The legislation faces hurdles in the House, where leaders say they have not had
time to examine it. The energy industry, led by BGE parent Constellation Energy,
is lobbying furiously to kill the bill. Whether the House will take it up
remains unclear.

Not all legislation that failed to clear one chamber by last night's
"cross-over" deadline was necessarily dead for the year. The Senate, for
example, put off until today a bill that would authorize the use of speed
cameras in work zones across the state. Currently, only Montgomery County is
authorized by the state to use the cameras.

Debate was abruptly ended after an amendment was floated to add school zones to
the legislation. Sen. Brian E. Frosh (D-Montgomery), chairman of the Judicial
Proceedings, predicted a close vote on that provision and the bill itself. But
if the legislation clears the Senate, he said, he expects the House to give it
full consideration, even though the cross-over deadline will have passed. The
House has been more friendly to such bills in recent years.

"I don't think it's in trouble in terms of timing," Frosh said.

On another issue affecting drivers, the Senate approved a bill that would
require teens to hold a driving learner's permit for nine months, instead of the
six now mandated by law, before advancing to a restricted provisional license.
The House has passed a bill on the issue, but its version also imposes new
restrictions on young driver's ability to carry passengers.

The House gave final approval to bill that would make Maryland the first state
to ban the use of bisphenol-A, a plastic hardener linked to a wide array of
health problems, in baby bottles sold in the state.

That chamber also signed off on a bill to bump up the percentage of slot machine
proceeds used to subsidize racing purses. And the House agreed the Prince
George's Hospital Authority should be given more time to find a private buyer
for the troubled county-owned system.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 7, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Maryland's License Dilemma;
A limited ID for illegal immigrants is the least-bad choice.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 457 words


WE'VE SAID before that it makes little sense to deprive illegal immigrants of
driver's licenses: Doing so will only encourage more people to drive without
proper training or insurance, endangering everyone. At the same time, as other
states have tightened their laws, Maryland reportedly has become a magnet for
illegal immigrants seeking licenses. This is unacceptable, too, given the
possibilities of fraud and abuse. The Maryland General Assembly is wrestling
with this dilemma.

To comply with a federal law known as Real ID,  which requires stricter
identification  for boarding a plane or entering a federal building, Maryland
has to change its law. The state Senate passed a bill that would prevent all
undocumented immigrants from obtaining licenses; the House passed a bill that
would do the same but would allow immigrants who already have licenses to keep
them and, when those licenses expire, replace them with a second-tier document
that would allow driving but not qualify as a federal ID. The House bill, which
has Gov. Martin J. O'Malley's (D) support, is preferable.

Thousands of Maryland immigrants need their driver's licenses to commute to
work, shuttle their children to school and buy groceries for their families.
Some Marylanders may respond: Well, then, let them go back where they came from.
But most of the more than 250,000 immigrants in the state illegally aren't
likely to go away anytime soon. Take away their licenses and they're likely to
continue driving, only illegally. Unlicensed drivers are responsible for a
disproportionate number of accidents and fatalities. That's one reason  that
many law enforcement groups support the House bill.

Both bills would close the loophole that has turned Maryland into a magnet for
identification fraud. As The Post's Lisa Rein and N.C. Aizenman reported,
Maryland is the only state east of the Mississippi that doesn't check  the
immigration status of applicants for driver's licenses. A utility bill or bank
statement is enough to prove state residency. The legislation would tighten
those requirements and curtail the ID cons.

Some conservative lawmakers assert that the House bill provides what amounts to
amnesty for illegal immigrants. But the limited ID would not allow its holders
to board planes or enjoy any benefits of citizenship or legal permanent
residency; we think the state should make it available not just to current
license holders.

This is another instance in which federal failure to fix immigration laws leaves
state and local governments without good solutions. The House has come up with a
less-bad alternative than the Senate's.

Do you have a different view of this issue? Debate a member of the editorial
board today at www.washingtonpost.com/opinions.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Assembly Closes the Door on Licenses;
Md. Lawmakers Vote To End Issuance To Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: John Wagner, Lisa Rein and Rosalind S. Helderman; Washington Post Staff
Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1081 words


The Maryland General Assembly  last night  passed a hard-fought compromise that
would end the practice of issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants,
capping a 90-day session in which lawmakers were greatly constrained by the
state's financial challenges but passed numerous low-cost bills affecting
residents' daily lives.

With barely an hour remaining before its midnight adjournment, the House voted
76 to 60 for a bill that would reconcile different solutions by the House and
Senate to the challenge Maryland faces in complying with the federal security
law known as Real ID. The Senate, which initially passed a more conservative
approach, quickly followed with a 29 to 16 vote in favor.

Under the compromise, motorists who cannot prove they are in the country legally
would be ineligible for a Maryland license as of June 1. But those who
previously received licenses by providing foreign documents that lacked a U.S.
visa stamp could get a one-time driving permit. The permits, which could not be
used for access to federal buildings or commercial airplanes, would expire in
2015.

Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) had said he probably would call a special session on
the issue if it was not resolved last night.

That bill was one of dozens debated in recent days that will bring changes to
the lives of Marylanders without straining a state budget undercut by sagging
tax collections amid the economic downturn.

Lawmakers banned the distracting practice of text messaging while driving,
authorized speed cameras in work zones and school zones, lengthened the time
teen drivers must hold learning permits, extended unemployment insurance to
part-time workers and set aside money to enable a freeze on tuition at public
universities again this fall.

"It was definitely the session for making policy on the cheap," said House
Majority Leader Kumar P. Barve (D-Montgomery), who described the fiscal
situation as "the big, wet blanket that fell over the entire city."

An almost $14 billion operating budget that won final approval yesterday freezes
spending at most state agencies in the coming year and includes substantial cuts
in road funding and other state aid to Maryland counties. A federal stimulus
package passed midway through the legislative session allowed lawmakers to avoid
deeper cuts and layoffs of state workers.

The session was also noteworthy for several bills with longer-term aims,
including a measure passed yesterday that seeks to curb greenhouse gas emissions
and several growth-management bills pushed by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D). A
separate measure proposed by O'Malley to assert greater authority over the
state's future energy supply died Saturday night.

Lawmakers also passed legislation in response to several emerging events. Final
approval was given yesterday to a bill that gives the state additional tools to
help keep the Preakness Stakes in Maryland after the owner of the prominent
horse race, Magna Entertainment, declared bankruptcy. And limitations were put
on undercover investigations by law enforcement officials in response to
revelations that the Maryland State Police had infiltrated peaceful groups
during the previous governor's administration.

Del. Murray Levy (D-Charles) lamented that lawmakers would be returning to
another projected budget shortfall in January. "There's a lot of bills that
might have otherwise passed, that have real social impact, that failed simply
because of their budgetary impact," he said.

Debate over final passage of the coming year's budget was dominated yesterday by
Republican concerns about diverting $2 million from a public financing fund for
gubernatorial candidates to help pay for new optical scan voting machines next
year.

Democratic leaders of the Senate pointed out that no candidate had used the fund
since 1994 and suggested that it was not likely to be tapped now because of low
spending limits on candidates who accept the public money.

But Republicans pointed out that the fund had accumulated from taxpayers who
voluntarily offer money for that purpose. And at least one candidate has
publicly indicated that he wants to tap the fund next year, they said.

"I think this is pretty unbelievable what is happening here," said Sen. E.J.
Pipkin (R-Queen Anne's), who said it is "outrageous" given that O'Malley is
facing reelection next year.

The most contentious debate of the day was taking place over the bill to curtail
driver's licenses for illegal immigrants. Maryland is one of just four states
that provides them.

Under an agreement reached by House and Senate negotiators, the door would soon
close to applicants who cannot prove their lawful presence in the country. But
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who are now able to drive could keep
their driving privileges until July 2015, receiving a limited permit.

The House had passed legislation that grandfathered in those drivers but set no
limits on how long they could keep driving. The more conservative Senate plan
had no similar grandfather provision. Last night, House negotiators balked at
the compromise, saying they had thought it would let immigrants who renewed
their driving permits before July 1, 2015, keep them for five years, effectively
extending the system until 2019. They later backed off that position but
initially struggled to sell the compromise to enough delegates.

However, House leaders succeeded in pushing through the measure. "It's a tough
issue," said House Speaker Michael E. Busch (D-Anne Arundel).

House members also sparred over a late-developing bill that would authorize the
state to exercise eminent domain over Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore and all
rights associated with the Preakness and the race trophy, the Woodlawn Vase.

The state also would have authority to issue bonds to finance their purchase,
with the goal of finding a private buyer later. But the House passed the bill,
which was approved last week by the Senate.

It would give the state the same authority over other Magna assets being sold in
federal bankruptcy proceedings. Republicans argued that private bidders would be
scared off by the prospect of eminent domain, forcing the state to take over the
Preakness.

"The state of Maryland should not be gambling in this industry," said Del.
Richard K. Impallaria (R-Baltimore County).

But Del. Doyle L. Niemann (D-Prince George's) said Magna has been subsidized by
the state for years.

"They are creatures of the public dole," he said. "They have what they have
because we have helped them. "

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

. . . But immigration reform can't be neglected, either.;
. . . But immigration reform can't be neglected, either.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 681 words


AS GOVERNOR of Arizona, Janet Napolitano balanced toughness and compassion on
illegal immigration while scoring sky-high approval ratings in a state reeling
from waves of undocumented migrants.

As the likely next secretary of homeland security, Ms. Napolitano will need a
similarly deft touch if she elects to push for broad reform of the nation's
failed immigration system in an administration preoccupied with war abroad and
an economic crisis at home. She should.  Even in a sharp recession, the United
States will continue to depend on millions of undocumented workers. Unless they
address the plight of these workers and forge an enforcement regime that works,
the Democrat-controlled Congress and the new administration will allow a sore to
fester.

Congress's failure to enact far-reaching  immigration bills in 2006 and 2007
left many Democrats wary of a third attempt. Some worried that immigration
reform -- particularly an initiative featuring amnesty for the estimated 12
million immigrants already living here illegally -- had become electoral poison.

In fact, there has been little evidence of voters punishing Democrats for
good-faith efforts to clean up the immigration mess, including by advocating
amnesty. Some incumbents, such as Ms. Napolitano, have been rewarded for taking
both enforcement and economic reality seriously.

As U.S. attorney for Arizona in the 1990s, she prosecuted illegal immigrants. As
governor of a state that has become the main entry point for illegal aliens, she
has backed tough measures to tighten control of the border, including deploying
the National Guard.

Faced with an inundation of unauthorized workers and the federal government's
inability to act, she also signed a bill cracking down  on employers who
knowingly hire undocumented workers.

At the same time, she vetoed a bill that would have cut off in-state tuition aid
for undocumented college students, even if they were brought to the country as
children by their parents. She quashed another bill that would have forced local
police to act as stand-in federal immigration agents, arresting illegal
residents and, she noted, saddling the state with tens of millions of dollars in
expenses.

To Republicans in the party's nativist wing, her attempts to steer a middle
course smacked of coddling illegal border-crossers. But voters in
conservative-leaning Arizona reelected her by a huge margin in 2006, and she
remains enormously popular.

Ms. Napolitano has argued that the federal government must establish a viable
system for absorbing migrant workers even as it gets serious about enforcement
at the border and in the workplace. She has rolled her eyes at provisions that
seem less pragmatic than punitive, such as requiring migrant workers to return
home for a year after every two years of work or forcing undocumented heads of
household to "touch back" in their country of origin to apply for permanent
resident status in the United States.

Resistance to comprehensive reform will be intense, particularly in a lifeless
economy with high unemployment. There are 40 million foreign-born people in the
country today, the highest proportion in almost a century. That has caused
political discomfort not just in cities but in suburban, exurban and rural areas
-- the new melting pots where many immigrants, including illegal ones, have
settled.

As Ms. Napolitano herself has suggested, the status quo is untenable. Local
governments bear the brunt of providing for illegal immigrants and rightly
resent it.

Meanwhile, millions of illegal immigrants continue to languish in the shadows of
a nation that, even in a stricken economy, offers them better employment
prospects than they would have at home.

Working in factories and fields, kitchens and construction sites, they form a
huge pool of workers easily exploited by unscrupulous employers, who
occasionally rob them of wages. They face apparently random federal raids, which
have exposed chilling accounts of workplace abuses.  A Republican president
tried and failed to right the system. It now poses a critical test for the
Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 11, 2009 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Attitudes Shift on Illegal Residents;
Some Link Crime In Montgomery To Immigration

BYLINE: Dan Morse and Ann E. Marimow; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1378 words


For years, mainstream Montgomery County has been generally accepting of illegal
immigrants, and county leaders followed suit, pledging not to enforce
immigration laws even as police agencies elsewhere in the region began to do so.

But public sentiment appears to be shifting in Montgomery, driven less by
ideology than by alarm over rising crime and the recent slayings of a
14-year-old honor student on a county transit bus and a 63-year-old woman in her
Bethesda home.

"People who are very, very tolerant want to see some changes," said County
Council member Marc Elrich (D-At Large), one of five council members who said in
interviews that public opinion has shifted in recent months.

Elrich said crime has "really hit home" even in his neighborhood of Takoma Park,
a city that since 1985 has officially refused to identify or report undocumented
immigrants.

Mariana Cordier, who grew up in the county and is a past president of the
Maryland Hispanic Bar Association, said residents are increasingly linking crime
to illegal immigration.

"It's been slow to come to Montgomery County," she said of that perception, "but
it has arrived."

Police Chief J. Thomas Manger is developing a proposal to have county police
officers check the immigration status of suspects arrested for violent crimes
and weapons offenses.

"I wouldn't have gone for it a year ago," Bethesda resident Judy Campbell said
recently, leaving a natural food co-op in Takoma Park with soy milk and a slice
of vegan double-chocolate fudge cake. "Until this series of violent crimes, it
wasn't on my radar screen."

Campbell, a 50-year-old nurse, is an avowed liberal. She thinks illegal
immigrants deserve publicly funded health care. She once voted for Dennis
Kucinich. And for the upcoming inauguration, she plans to participate in
Chant4Change, an event that bills itself as a gathering for "conscious
revolutionaries."

But she supports the chief's efforts, in part because the emerging proposal is
not as far-reaching as policies that have been enacted in Prince William and
Frederick counties.

Some officials, including County Executive Isiah Leggett (D), say they have
detected no major shift in public sentiment. Leggett, who in the past has said
Montgomery should not be in the business of enforcing immigration laws, would
have to approve the proposal before it could take effect.

Opponents hope to persuade him to reject the idea, which they say would result
in racial or ethnic profiling that could ensnare innocent people. State Del. Ana
Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery) and other opponents said residents would reject the
proposal if they understood its consequences more fully.

The proposal is a departure from past practice for a police agency that has
cultivated relations with immigrant communities. The department has long taken
the position that delving into immigration matters could jeopardize cooperation
from crime victims and witnesses, undermining public safety.

Manger, who is crafting the proposal with his senior staff, declined to comment.
Assistant Chief Wayne M. Jerman said recently that "all public officials" have
been hearing from residents that the county needs to be more aggressive on the
issue.

Until recently, concern in Montgomery over illegal immigration focused chiefly
on opposition to a county plan to open a day-laborer center in Gaithersburg.

But when illegal immigrants were charged in the two killings, one of which
police linked to a series of home invasions, the issue found a wider audience,
said Rene Sandler, a Rockville defense attorney.

"You're talking about the fear that crime evokes," she said.

Serious crime is up 7.7 percent in Montgomery, a trend driven by increases in
home and car break-ins across the county. Police acknowledge that they do not
know how much of that increase, if any, is attributable to illegal immigrants.

As of a week ago, eight of 16 people held in the county jail on murder charges
had immigration detainers placed on them, meaning federal authorities might move
to deport them after their criminal cases have run their course. Such suspects
are not necessarily in the country illegally.

Police officials, however, have said two of the suspects -- alleged gang members
accused in the Nov. 1 shooting death of 14-year-old Tai Lam -- are illegal
immigrants whose status went undetected during previous arrests in the county.

"People in the mainstream are saying, 'Wow, we could have had this person and we
didn't. What could have been done differently?' " said council member Michael
Knapp (D-Upcounty).

Under a current version, Manger's proposal would apply when a suspect is
arrested for certain crimes, such as murder, armed robbery, kidnapping,
first-degree child abuse, rape or weapons offenses. If the arresting officer
thought the suspect was in the country unlawfully, the officer could inquire
about immigration status and, depending on the response, refer the matter to
federal immigration officials.

Leggett, who plans to make a decision on the proposal as soon as the end of the
month, said he wants to use all reasonable tools to get criminals off the street
but is concerned about the potential for profiling. "You don't want to punish or
stereotype people in a way that is unfair and illegal," he said.

His aides are scheduled to meet tomorrow with a half-dozen immigration and
Latino advocates, including Cordier and Gutierrez.

As a practical matter, Gutierrez said, officers could not determine which
suspects to question without engaging in profiling. She said officers would also
need to become familiar with the complex terrain of immigration matters,
including more than 100 types of visas.

"The devil is in the details," said Gutierrez, who said she has not detected any
shift in mainstream public opinion about the role county police should have in
immigration matters.

Police officials have not said how officers would determine whom to press on the
question of status, or what kind of training they would need to carry out the
policy effectively.

Chuck Short, an aide to Leggett, said some officials think that failure to
address the concerns over illegal immigration now could lead to pressure later
for more aggressive policies, such as cutting social services for illegal
immigrants.

Already, an activist group that supports such measures, Help Save Maryland, has
secured a meeting for Friday with Leggett's aides -- a gathering that would have
been unheard of several months ago, said Brad Botwin, the group's director.

"It would never have happened, in no way, shape or form," said Botwin, a county
resident.

Currently, when Montgomery officers detain a suspect, they run a routine check
for outstanding warrants. If the check turns up a warrant from immigration
officials, federal authorities are notified.

Some jurisdictions are far more aggressive. Prince William drew national
attention in 2007 by proposing that officers check the immigration status of
those detained, even for such minor infractions as speeding, if they thought the
detainees might be in the country illegally. The county backed off that approach
but requires that officers ask about the status of everyone they place under
arrest.

In Frederick, as part of a partnership with federal immigration authorities, all
people booked into the county jail are questioned about their citizenship. The
answers can trigger more questions and a call to federal agents.

Officers in Prince George's County, by contrast, take a less aggressive approach
than Montgomery. They are governed by a 2003 County Council resolution directing
them to refrain from enforcing immigration laws.

In downtown Silver Spring, where the slain honor student spent time with
friends, Christmas cards, personal notes and a laminated bus transfer are
assembled in a weathered memorial that commemorates his life.

Stan Wolk, a lawyer whose office is nearby, called Lam's death senseless and
tragic. Wolk said his liberal instincts compel him to support amnesty and a path
to citizenship for illegal immigrants who work hard to provide for their
families.

But when it comes to suspects arrested for violent crimes and weapons offenses,
Wolk said he supports checking immigration status, as do many of his
acquaintances. "A lot my friends would say if they're illegal, put them away,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Priorities Questioned;
Report Says Focus on Deporting Criminals Apparently Shifted

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 703 words


As the Obama administration vows to re-engineer immigration policy to target
criminals, a new report says that in recent years, a high-profile federal
program shifted its focus away from catching the most dangerous illegal
immigrants who were evading deportation orders.

Between 2003 and 2008, 27 percent of the more than 96,000 illegal immigrants
arrested under U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's National Fugitive
Operations Program had criminal convictions. And in 2007, 9 percent of those
arrested were fugitives from deportation orders who were criminals or were
considered dangerous. That same year, the share of arrests of illegal immigrants
not facing deportation orders grew to 40 percent.

The findings come as Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has ordered a
review of which immigrants are targeted for arrest and as a Democratic Congress
has shifted ICE money toward pursuing criminals.

Under President George W. Bush, immigrant advocates complained that armed ICE
agents conducted harsh and indiscriminate raids at homes and in neighborhoods,
and advocates accused the government of racial profiling, illegal searches,
false arrests, family separations and other humanitarian abuses.

Authors of the report, issued by the Immigration Legal Clinic at Benjamin N.
Cardozo School of Law in New York City and the Migration Policy Institute in
Washington, said that despite assurances to Congress, Bush administration
officials changed course from trying to capture the most dangerous illegal
immigrants to boosting arrest totals.

Peter L. Markowitz, a Cardozo law professor, said Bush officials approved such
tactics because they were "facing political pressure to look tough on
immigration enforcement." ICE, he said, "created tremendous bureaucratic
incentives" for fugitive operations teams to adopt "a shotgun approach of
undisciplined home raids."

In January 2006, ICE raised arrest quotas for each team in the program from 125
to 1,000 and ended a requirement that 75 percent of those arrested be criminals.
Later, ICE let teams count non-fugitives toward their numerical goal. The
Cardozo-MPI findings were first reported yesterday by the New York Times.

Rep. David E. Price (D-N.C.), chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee
for homeland security, said he was "discouraged that ICE's previous leadership
misrepresented the goals of the expanded Fugitive Operations Program and chose
not to use its additional resources as Congress instructed."

Spending on the program grew from $9 million in 2003 to $219 million in 2008,
and the number of fugitive operations teams grew from eight to 104.

Julie L. Myers, ICE director from 2006 until last year, called the report "a
work of fiction with a thinly veiled agenda" that "unfairly maligns the work
Congress asked the agency to do."

Congress has mandated "that all fugitives must be identified, arrested and
removed," current ICE spokeswoman Kelly A. Nantel said, not just those with
prior criminal convictions.

Nantel added that ICE arrested more than 250,000 other criminal illegal
immigrants last year through different programs and that so far in fiscal 2009,
it has picked up 179 percent more than in the same period a year earlier.

For the first time, she said, the number of immigrants evading deportation
orders fell sharply, from 634,000 in 2007 to 554,000 currently, in part through
a purge of outdated records.

"To give non-criminal fugitives a pass is to send the message that a judge's
deportation order doesn't matter. It is a message of amnesty for lawbreakers,"
said Rep. Lamar Smith (Tex.),  the ranking Republican on the House Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration.

Napolitano called that message a "false dichotomy," saying, "No, it's a matter
of where you put your emphasis. . . . It doesn't mean that you give a blank
check to everybody else."

For example, ICE estimates that as many as 450,000 criminals being held in
federal, state and local U.S. detention are illegal immigrants. The agency
deported about 113,000 criminals last year.

This year and last, congressional Democrats gave ICE $350 million and told the
agency to redirect an additional $850 million to catch and deport criminals,
leading to a rebound in arrests.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Montgomery Steps Up Reporting in ICE Efforts;
County Defends Plan To Flag All Suspects Of Violent Crimes

BYLINE: Dan Morse and Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1176 words


Montgomery County police will soon start telling federal immigration authorities
the names of all suspects they arrest for violent crimes and handgun violations,
an approach that reflects growing concerns about illegal immigration and crime
but stops short of the broader enforcement efforts used in some counties.

The new policy, expected to be made public today, represents a compromise that
could limit its effectiveness, but county leaders say it is key to maintaining
the trust and confidence of Montgomery's 277,000 foreign-born residents.

"I believe this approach is balanced and realistic for our highly diverse
community of nearly one million residents," Leggett wrote in a memo this week to
his police chief, J. Thomas Manger.

Elsewhere in the Washington region,  Frederick County and several agencies in
Northern Virginia deputize officers to act as immigration agents, questioning
suspects about whether they are in the country legally. They also turn over the
names of illegal immigrants arrested for any crime, not just violent offenses.

"We're not getting into the immigration investigation business," Manger said
yesterday.

Still, the policy marks a shift in a county that has prided itself on its
liberal, tolerant leanings. And some Latino advocates remain concerned that any
step toward immigration enforcement could entrap people who might not be guilty
of local offenses, leading to deportations that could break up families.

Across the country, police are grappling with how to cooperate with federal
immigration agents without scaring off crucial witnesses who may have
immigration status issues but whose help is crucial to public safety. Reflecting
that challenge, local police agencies handle immigration matters differently
when it comes to those under arrest.

Just as some counties are more aggressive than Montgomery, other jurisdictions
are less aggressive: The District and Prince George's County discourage police
officers from asking about immigration status.

Currently, officers in Montgomery routinely check to see whether people they
detain have outstanding warrants, a broad search that can turn up immigration
warrants. Officials at the county jail fax a list of foreign-born inmates to ICE
once a week, and ICE has the authority to run the names through databases to
check for expired visas and other violations.

The checks do not detect those who have entered the country illegally and have
had no contact with authorities.

Manger began reevaluating the policy last year, when undocumented immigrants
were linked to at least two high-profile killings, including the Nov. 1 slaying
of an honor student on a county transit bus. By late last month, federal
authorities had lodged immigration detainers against eight of 18 people held in
the county jail on murder charges, meaning they might seek to deport those
suspects after their criminal cases run their course. The detainers do not
necessarily mean the suspects are in the country illegally.

The thinking behind Manger's proposal was that if dangerous people are arrested
and officers could use their immigration status to get them off the streets, it
was worth moving in that direction.

Manger originally proposed a policy that would apply to those arrested for
violent crimes or weapons violations. That kind of policy, in theory, could have
netted the two men accused of killing the honor student. Months before, one had
been arrested on charges linked to carrying a machete down University Boulevard
East, and the other for threatening a student and carrying a switchblade.

The policy that Leggett (D) has agreed to applies to those arrested for violent
crimes or illegal carrying or transport of handguns. Leggett said yesterday he
was concerned that someone carrying a small penknife could get caught up in the
policy.

Manger said finding the right cutoff was a "delicate balancing act," but he was
ultimately satisfied with the policy.

Leggett, who was lobbied heavily by advocates for immigrants and those  seeking
tougher enforcement, has said his goal is to give police as many tools as
possible to remove dangerous people from the streets. Leggett called the new
policy "quite cautious," saying it would yield an average of only three
referrals a day to ICE.

The referrals would mean an electronic inquiry or telephone call to ICE's
24-hour help center in Vermont. If that inquiry didn't result in a clear answer
from the databases, officials in Vermont could refer the matter to ICE agents in
Baltimore.

"I think in many ways, it suggests Montgomery County is more tolerant compared
to other jurisdictions," Leggett said.

But officials in counties with more aggressive policies say the efforts aren't
about intolerance; they're about the best way to identify illegal immigrants who
commit crimes.

In Frederick, Prince William and Loudoun counties and about 50 other
jurisdictions nationwide, local departments have entered into so-called 287(g)
partnerships with federal immigration agents. The program provides special
training and access to federal databases.

Lt. Michael Cronise, who runs the program at the Frederick jail, said
immigration issues are so complex that his officers could not evaluate suspects'
claims if they did not have the training. He recalled one instance in which a
suspect thought he was in the country illegally, but a check by Cronise revealed
he was not.

He said Montgomery's proposal is better than doing nothing, "but there are more
things available."

James Pendergraph, a former ICE official who coordinated the agency's work with
state and local governments, said Montgomery's approach would leave them too
dependent upon overworked federal agents to start immediate investigations.

"I think it's maybe a good quarter measure," he said. "You're going to have too
many fall through the cracks."

Police and prosecutors, however, say a more aggressive policy could drive
witnesses and victims underground, ultimately making Montgomery less safe.

"We've spent years trying to build up their trust and faith," said State's
Attorney John McCarthy. "I'm not sure federalizing our local police is the way
to go."

A group of Latino advocates earlier told Leggett that any movement toward more
cooperation with federal agents could spread fear through immigrant communities
and undermine a relationship built over many years. They said the two men
charged with murder in the killing of 14-year-old Tai Lam on the bus were
arrested after police received tips from immigrants.

"When you jeopardize trust, public safety pays a price," said Grace Rivera-Oven,
host of a local Spanish-language television show.

Advocates also say the proposal would not have prevented another high-profile
killing last year by an alleged illegal immigrant, the slaying of a 63-year-old
woman in her Bethesda home. The man charged in that case had not been previously
arrested in Montgomery. Montgomery police acknowledge that they don't know
whether undocumented immigrants are responsible for a disproportionate amount of
crime.

Staff writer Tom Jackman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 4, 2009 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Buying Time on Immigration

BYLINE: E.J. Dionne Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 759 words


On many questions, President Obama's approach is full speed ahead. On
immigration reform, he prefers to take things  one step at a time. There really
is no alternative.

Immigration is politically vexing because it splits both parties and scrambles
the usual ideological alignments. There is no clear majority on this issue.
Roughly a third of Americans strongly favor granting illegal immigrants a way to
become citizens, while another third is strongly opposed. An ambivalent middle
knows the status quo is unsustainable and wants a comprehensive solution, yet is
also upset about the government's failure to stop illegal immigration.

The Obama administration has particular worries of its own. Obama won last year
with overwhelming support from Latino voters who helped him carry such swing
states as New Mexico, Colorado and Nevada. Latino political leaders are
appropriately insistent that the president keep his promise to fix immigration
and end a system that, in Obama's words, "keeps those undocumented workers in
the shadows."

But the president's lieutenants are well aware that Obama also won in swing
states where there is less sympathy for a path to legalization (Indiana, North
Carolina and Ohio) and do not want to throw immigration reform into an already
combustible legislative mix.

So Obama has been sending two signals simultaneously: Yes we can, but not quite
yet.

On April 9, a front-page headline in the New York Times read: "Obama to Push
Immigration Bill as One Priority." The story spoke of the president's plans "to
begin addressing the country's immigration system this year." It was the sign
Latino leaders badly wanted to see.

But note that word "begin." That's different from legislating anytime soon, as
Obama made clear at his news conference last week. He said all the right things
about the urgency of change. "We can't continue with a broken immigration
system," he argued. "It's not good for anybody."

Yet his answer lacked fierce urgency. "We want to move this process," he said,
and he spoke of the importance of "building confidence." And then he kicked
responsibility over to Congress. "Ultimately," he said, "I don't have control of
the legislative calendar."

There is much fascination with the role of White House Chief of Staff Rahm
Emanuel in crafting the administration's response. As a Democratic House leader,
he was decidedly cautious on immigration reform (to the consternation of Latino
organizations), but he has emerged recently as a supporter of action --
eventually.

Emanuel is candid in saying that his perspective from the White House differs
from the view he needed to take as an adviser to Democrats from highly
competitive districts. While noting that his own voting record was sympathetic
to comprehensive immigration reform, Emanuel observed in an interview that many
of his electorally vulnerable Democratic colleagues hailed from areas in which
such a position would be unpopular.

"My job then was to give them the best political advice I could, given the
districts they were representing," he said. "My job now is to see this issue
from a national perspective and from the president's perspective." And Emanuel
was mightily impressed with the Latino political mobilization in 2008.

Yet Emanuel and Obama know that most of those same Democrats still represent
competitive seats and continue to worry about the costs of a vote for
immigration reform. That's why the administration has settled on a strategy of
slowly building consensus rather than moving fast.

Hispanic Democrats have sent a strong signal to the business lobbies. They are
saying that until comprehensive reform passes, they will withhold their votes
for temporary fixes to raise immigration ceilings for groups of workers sought
by particular industries. They hope to pressure business to pressure Republicans
to toss more votes toward immigration reform.

The success of immigration reformers will ultimately depend on winning over
those in the ambivalent middle and not treating them as xenophobes or racists.

The core argument for reform must be that the presence of so many illegal
migrants without any enforceable rights undermines the rights of everyone else.
The real message that a path to citizenship will send is that all long-term
residents of our country should be able to assume their responsibilities as
Americans.

Moving us in that direction is not about doing favors for illegal immigrants.
It's about strengthening the American community. Obama needs to use the time he
is buying himself to make that case.

ejdionne@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     April 15, 2009 Wednesday 11:00 AM EST

Potomac Confidential: Driver's Licenses for Illegal Immigrants, Bloomberg in Va.
Politics, the Nats, More;
Washington's Hour of Talk Power

BYLINE: Marc Fisher, Post Metro Columnist, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 8069 words



HIGHLIGHT: Metro columnist Marc Fisher was online Wednesday, April 15, at Noon
ET to look at Maryland's decision to stop giving driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's foray into the Virginia
governor's race and the sorry state of the Washington Nationals.


Metro columnist Marc Fisher was online Wednesday, April 15, at Noon ET to look
at Maryland's decision to stop giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants,
New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's foray into the Virginia governor's race
and the sorry state of the Washington Nationals.

Archives: Discussion Transcripts

____________________

Marc Fisher:  Welcome aboard, folks, on a rare Wednesday edition of the big
show. Back to our regular Thursday noon slot next week.

In the news, Maryland is getting tough on illegal immigrants who until now have
enjoyed easy access to state driver's licenses. That practice has hit the end of
the road, with a new law requiring every single Marylander, immigrant or not, to
prove that they are in the country legally before they can get or renew their
license. So, for the sake of finding a new way to crack down on illegal
immigrants, every American now has to go through a complicated and needless
bureaucratic nightmare just to continue driving in their own country. All under
the guise of homeland security--alas, the security hysteria so long associated
with the Bush Administration shows little evidence of easing under the Obama
presidency.

What do you make of New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg elbowing his way into
the Virginia governor's race, buying TV time around the commonwealth for ads
smacking Republican candidate Bob McDonnell for being soft on guns? Bloomberg
has had a strange series of run-ins with Virginia on trash, guns and other crime
issues--is this a personal vendetta or is he trying to extend his political
influence beyond the Big Apple?

Alas, the Nationals--as of today, the only winless team in professional sports.
Still, Opening Day was a blast--a big display of power, a full house, festive
atmosphere. The food from the new vendor is good, noticeably better in quality
than last year's offerings. But the service--the main reason given for making
the change to a third vendor in three years--was glacial; no sign of improvement
there. Counters were understaffed and workers took their sweet time fulfilling
even the simplest order. Supervisors seemed exasperated by workers who failed to
replenish the dogs on the grill or repeatedly told customers that they didn't
have products that they indeed did have. At one sausage counter, I heard four
people try to order the advertised Andouille Sausage before finally one was able
to persuade the worker to serve one up. If training's not the answer, maybe new
workers would be.

On to your many comments and questions, but first, let's call the Yay and Nay of
the Day:

Yay to the Washington Capitals, who begin their Stanley Cup quest tonight at the
Abe Pollin Center. The Caps, under Ted Leonsis's energetic ownership, have
become the model franchise for sports facing tough times and a customer base
struggling to make ends meet. Leonsis has turned the hockey team in a non-hockey
city into an exciting attraction for casual and even non-fans, building buzz in
what is generally stereotyped as a uni-dimensional sports town. Most important
piece of the excellent marketing strategy: Fulfilling the promise to do what it
takes to build a contender. A couple of other franchises in town could take a
lesson on that front.

Nay to Maryland's lawmakers and governor for a hysterical and ultimately
grandstanding move to save the Preakness, the legendary horse race that puts
Baltimore on the racing map. The legislation approved this week is full of
bluster and bravado but in the end, likely signifies nothing. It's unnecessary:
The developer who was initially believed to be threatening to tear down Pimlico
Race Track now says he meant no such thing. It's possibly illegal: Other such
efforts around the country to legislate the location of a sports team or event
have generally failed on both legal and practical grounds. And it's a waste of
resources: If horse racing is dying a natural death because consumers have moved
on to other interests, what business is it of the state to intervene to try to
prop up the sport?

Your turn starts right now....

_______________________

Dunn Loring, Va.: What are your thoughts on Courtland Milloy's race-baiting
column which implies that black people should never celebrate anything at the
zoo because, get this, animals (including the Great Apes) are displayed there?

washingtonpost.com: Easter Monday at the Zoo Does No Honor to the Black Family
(Post, April 15)

Marc Fisher:  I've always found the tradition of black Washingtonians going to
the zoo on Easter Monday to be both a wonderfully grassroots folk tradition and
a perplexing and slightly cheesy event. I liked it a lot better when it was a
naturally-occurring ritual, but the zoo decided sometime in the 90s to embrace
the tradition and give it a name and cater to the crowd. That's probably good
marketing--why fight reality?--but it does open the zoo to the kind of criticism
Courtland levies in today's column.

That said, I don't see why my pal Courtland is so exercised over this. He seems
a bit ashamed that black families choose to spend their day off taking part in a
tradition that traces back to when domestic workers had to go to the zoo on
Easter Monday because their employers wouldn't give them the day off on Easter
Sunday. But he ends up somehow blaming the National Zoo for this, when the zoo
officials never lifted a finger to encourage the ritual until long after it was
well-established. Anyway, I'm afraid I don't see this as a big deal--it's
families going to the zoo, and what's wrong with that?

_______________________

Springfield, Va.: Once you accept the fact that the Nats are truly awful, and
likely to remain so for some time (sorry, Bos) you can go ahead and enjoy being
at the park, an experience that will only improve once the weather warms up a
bit, and surely the team will get a little better? I realize Opening Day is an
anomaly, huge crowd and still getting the kinks out, but our one complaint is
still the amount of time you have to wait in line for concessions. We were
buying hot dogs and burgers, nothing too complicated. And we HATE those new
statues -- ugh -- but fortunately we don't have to look at them often. Here's to
another summer of, if not good baseball, at least good times at the Park.

Marc Fisher:  I was reserving judgment on the new statues of Josh Gibson, Frank
Howard and Walter Johnson, but spending some time walking around them and
listening to the comments from fans on Opening Day, I have to say they are a
failure. The idea that you would communicate action and the snapping-off of a
pitch by equipping the players with multiple arms is clunky to start with and
extremely awkward in the execution. That said, lots of folks were posing for
photos in front of the sculptures on the centerfield plaza, so they are at least
a conversation piece.

For a more successful bit of public art in the stadium, walk around to the area
behind home plate, along the main concourse on the first base side, where a new
piece of hanging sculpture, a sort of metal merry-go-round of generic baseball
players, has been installed. With accompanying carousel music, this is a
charming piece that is capturing the fancy of passing fans. Since the piece
hangs from the ceiling, there's not much of a photo-op attraction, but the art
is pleasant enough and makes for a good meeting spot as well. Too bad what was
designed to be the main entrance to the stadium remains virtually unknown and
unused, thanks to the total lack of development along the waterfront so far.

_______________________

Rockville, Md.: Whatever happened to the Nationals demanding $100,000 a day from
the city because their offices at the ballpark weren't ready on Opening Day last
year? I don't recall ever reading about a conclusion to that, and the only thing
I can find about it through Google is your original story:

Nats Demand $100,000 A Day For Unfinished (?) Stadium (Raw Fisher, May 22)

Marc Fisher:  The team and the city resolved their differences, the city agreed
to make a whole slew of repairs and improvements that the team owners had
demanded, and this season, the Lerners paid their rent in full before the start
of the season. That tiff, at least, has been put aside, but now we have yet
another ticket spat between Mayor Adrian Fenty and the D.C. Council members.
It's hard to know who's more juvenile in this recurring nonsense: The mayor who
holds the city's free tix close to his heart and is less than magnanimous about
sharing, or the council members who seem so desperate to use the fabulous and
free seats that they ought to be ashamed to take gratis.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: A Post chatter asked Stan Kasten last week whether the Nats
would take down that red tent on the parking lot that blocks out the view of the
Capitol dome from the left-field upper deck viewing area. In words that seemed
to come straight out of Ted Lerner's mouth, Kasten said that the parking lot is
the only place they can host parties and that that's more important than a view.

Marc, could that response be any more typical of these owners? I guess if you're
building a shopping mall, utilitarianism is more important than aesthetics. But
the Capitol view is what distinguishes Nationals Park as particularly a
Washington ballpark, and it's also a welcome attractive sight amid the
depressing construction zone that is the neighborhood. The fact that the front
office doesn't perceive that ugly tent as detrimental to the fan experience
speaks volumes about what is wrong with them as owners. Am I wrong to be so
annoyed with this?

Marc Fisher:  The problem is not the red tent atop the parking deck. The problem
is the parking deck. The cynical and short-sighted decision to build ugly
parking towers immediately outside the stadium, creating a barrier between the
ballpark and whatever pedestrian-friendly retail development finally occurs
along Half Street, will hinder the area for many years to come. It's hard to
fault the Nats for trying to create revenue streams and gathering places for
fans on the few available pieces of property they control. Unfortunately for the
Lerners, the next chapter in the ballpark area's development will depend almost
entirely on the companies that bought up all the land around the stadium--not on
the Nats themselves.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Interesting comments on bookstore closing.  I do use
amazon.com because the prices are the best, and you can't beat free shipping and
no sales tax. But I also buy at B and N and Borders, but only when I have a 25
percent off coupon.

I recently purchased a Kindle (electronic book reader) because the typical price
of $9.99 per book, which includes wireless delivery over a cell phone-like 3G
network (no PC needed), is absolutely incredible. No left-over books to recycle,
no waiting for the U.S. Mail to deliver the item, instant gratification! Amazon
has devised an almost-perfect business model. I can honestly see Kindles putting
a huge dent not only in independent book stores, but also the large chains and
amazon.com itself.

Independent bookstores did not sufficiently change their own business model to
meet the competition, so I can't really feel sorry for them.

Also, I still carry a bitter memory of innocently asking an employee of an indie
store (which shall remain nameless) whether it carried a book written by an
conservative author. The employee very rudely questioned my intelligence and
education and told me that her store would NEVER carry "fascist propaganda" like
that. I never went back.

Marc Fisher:  Today's item on Raw Fisher looks at the closing of one of the
region's best independent bookstores, Vertigo Books, in College Park (formerly
of Dupont Circle.) I've got a poll up over there about your attitudes toward
indy bookstores and what obligations we have as consumers to support small local
businesses--but come ahead with your thoughts here as well as your votes there.

Actually, to your point, the best indy bookstores indeed have changed their
business models dramatically, and now draw large portions of their incomes from
cafes, entertainment, events and online sales. They're not just books
anymore--those that are tend to be the ones in deep trouble.

Yikes--sad to hear that bit about the politics of bookstore clerks, but it would
make sense that businesses that are trying to create community might sometimes
choose to tap into the political divisions in the country and create spaces
attuned to the politics of whatever community they serve. That's not the kind of
bookstore I'd set foot in, but I imagine there are places where that approach
would work (college towns and other such closed-minded places, in particular.)

_______________________

washingtonpost.com: Getting Vertigo Over Lost Bookstores (Raw Fisher, April 15)

_______________________

D.C. detective is paid more than $450,000: over a 3-year period and refuses to
pay taxes. It was in today's paper. How the heck does he pull down a salary like
that?

washingtonpost.com: Income Tax 'Defiers' Include D.C. Detective (Post, April 15)

Marc Fisher:  One word: Overtime. We've done some remarkable stories about the
huge pay given to many local police and fire fighters as a result of massive
overtime hours.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Marc, thanks very much for your columns on the ridiculous zero
tolerance policies. I'm sure none of the enactors of these policies ever took a
pen from work as that would be theft for which they should be fired and sent to
the county jail. I was really upset about the destruction of the life of the
girl who took birth control pills (with her mother and doctor's consent). Which
school districts have these policies? I want to make sure I don't buy a house in
any of them.

washingtonpost.com: Zero Tolerance: Parents Talk Tough, But Are They Really?
(Raw Fisher, April 14)

Marc Fisher:  Many school districts have adopted zero tolerance policies, mainly
because they are simple to administer and provide protection against the
difficulty of dealing with each child individually and against the potential
lawsuits that can result from a more flexible and child-oriented punishment
system. I've had a boatload of notes from teachers defending the zero tolerance
approach--not because they think it's better for kids (they don't), but because
they say counselors and teachers are overwhelmed and don't have the time to give
kids the individual attention they need. So the one-size-fits-all discipline
system takes those worries out of the counselors' hands. That's the ugly truth.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: Denying driver's licenses to illegal immigrants will NOT make us
safer. The 911 terrorists were in this country legally and had driver's
licences. So did Tim McVeigh who bombed the Oklahoma City Federal Building.
People who are intent on hijacking airliners bombing federal installation and
commiting other illegal and terroristic acts will not be deterred by lack of
proper ID.

Marc Fisher:  The Real ID Act, the federal law that is pushing states to reverse
policy on granting driver's licenses to illegals, is all dressed up with the
notion that this will somehow provide protection against terrorism. But as you
note, it will do nothing of the kind. What it will guarantee is that we have
vastly more illegal drivers on the roads, people who have no insurance and who
pose a menace to every motorist. It's one of the dumbest bits of lawmaking to
come along in many years, and yet by wrapping it in the flag of homeland
security, it gets by with little opposition.

_______________________

Tax question: This came to me in the middle of the night last night: If I have
taxes properly taken out of my paycheck all year long, why do I have to go
through the annual tax-filing agony? I have never owed taxes and always get a
refund because I've withheld too much or had many deductions. Doesn't the IRS
already know how much tax I've paid when my employer reports it to them?

Marc Fisher:  Sure, but they don't know how much you've spent on various stuff
that might qualify you for deductions, and they don't know if you've added a kid
or sold a house or all sorts of other tax events. They could in theory know all
that, but then the privacy nuts would go bananas.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Regarding Black Family Day at the zoo -- it feels a little weird
to me, as a white guy. I can't put my finger on it exactly, but it doesn't feel
right. I can see why Milloy was exercised about it.

Regarding the Nats: Who cares? I mean, really. There is a WaPo columnist
(possibly you) who has said that he "doesn't get" the idea of pets -- well, I
don't get the idea of professional sports. I suppose if you have young children,
it's a fun outing for them to see "real" baseball players (or football, or
whatever), but I personally have no use for the multimillion-dollar stadia, $5
hot dogs, $10 cups of crappy beer, and large crowds. And people get so wrapped
'round the axle about this stuff -- they show up wearing team jerseys, carrying
flags, etc., etc. Jeez, people, get a life.

Marc Fisher:  Oh please. Sure, you can easily deride any mass event, any object
of communal activity or group affinity. I feel that way about political
demonstrations--I cannot imagine a cause that would make me want to spend an
afternoon wandering in circles with thousands of strangers. Others have the same
attitude about, say, religious gatherings or concerts. Pro sports at their best
give people a way to express and solidify community--it's something for people
to come together around, to root for, to identify with. There's nothing
inherently wrong with that, and its power is evident in how loyal people remain
even after team owners and league presidents treat fans like dirt year after
year after year.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Courtland Milloy is a columnist so he's GOT to say something
on a variety of topics, which he does well. The Zoo column, though, seemed like
a stretch. Was he stumped for an idea and just pulled out a discarded draft of a
column he wrote after the troubles in 2000? It's not like I agree or disagree on
what he wrote; it just seems like he was stumped for something to write. Should
we expect him to come roaring back next week?

Marc Fisher:  Courtland always comes roaring back, and he hits for a remarkably
high average. Even if you don't like one, he'll be back with something that
really makes you think, or lets you see someone else's life in eye-opening
fashion.

_______________________

GO CAPS: How can we persuade Ted Leonsis to buy the Redskins? Now that is the
kind of owner that doesn't make me cringe every time he holds a press
conference!

Marc Fisher:  Good luck with that. Danny Boy seems to love his toy, even if
others must avert their eyes when he comes out to play.

_______________________

It all starts...Right Now: Marc,

Is your "right now" line borrowed from the Nats' PA announcer? And I noticed he
didn't say that the game begins "right now" on Monday -- was that because of the
moment of silence for Harry Kalas (a classy touch, by the way, that I, a
life-long Phillies fan, appreciated), or have they dropped that tagline? I hope
not: that's the best part of the game!

Marc Fisher:  No, it's borrowed from the WUSA Channel 9 news of the early 1990s.
The Post's legendary TV columnist Captain Airwaves, John Carmody, picked up on
the catch phrase--which for a time was all the rage on local TV newscasts across
the country--and used it for some years to jumpstart his daily column, and I
stole it from the captain.

_______________________

Sec 114, Row E: Is it wrong to wish for a few more Nats losses so that Manny get
canned. I know that he is trying to exude a quiet confidence, but it looks to me
like he doesn't care and has no fire.

From the outside, it also looks like he runs a lax team -- there doesn't seem to
be any punishment for the poor fundamental play that is at the center of this
0-7 team.

But if the Nats fall to 0-10, do the Lerners care enough to fire Manny?

Marc Fisher:  I've gone from being a Manny advocate to being Manny neutral,
mainly because there are just too many managerial decisions that seem unthinking
or done by rote. That said, he has so little to work with on the pitching front
that a little bit of panic and little bit of just throwing everything up against
the wall are to be expected.

I don't know that you can blame Acta for the pathetic fielding--all kinds of
crazy things happen on a team that just loses and loses. Anderson Hernandez's
embarrassing performance at second on Opening Day could be first-day jitters, or
he could be really lousy. But look at all the players who stink on the Nats and
then go elsewhere and do fine or even better--that says something about the
psychology of playing on a cellar dweller, but also possibly something about
management. (Does anybody not want the Emilio Bonifacio trade back?)

_______________________

South Riding, Va.: So how did the new food vendor do at the National's home game
on Monday? I heard one of the radio stations say they started running out of
food early in the game. Unless they are making the food fresh every day, that
surprises me as you can buy and store hot dogs in bulk and cook them fairly
quickly. I know that I don't go to many games, but like the fact they have $5
seats. How much should a family of four expect to spend when you add in parking,
food, drinks, and maybe a hat or t-shirt?

Marc Fisher:  The $5 seats are a great bargain, and given the smaller crowds
expected this year, it should be possible to move up to better seats over the
course of a game. The $5 seats are only available day of game, but you can buy
the $10 seats in advance--in many ways, a better deal.

No need to pay for parking--Metro is faster and easier. But if you insist on
driving, it will generally run you $20 or $15 if you're willing to walk a few
blocks (and even cheaper if you enjoy a longer walk.) Put it all together and a
family of four can do the whole thing for under $100, which is pretty amazing
compared to other entertainment options, and unbelievable compared to other pro
sports.

_______________________

Floris, Va.:  So Marc, how soon before Nationals Park is renamed D.C. United
Park? Seems to me that this would be a perfect way to put our "baseball" team
out of their misery if you ask me.

Marc Fisher:  The soccer team wants a much smaller facility so its crowds won't
seem diminished by a huge park, as happens at RFK Stadium. And soccer plays best
in a stadium designed for the game, which of course requires different
dimensions than a baseball stadium.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: It's me again -- the guy who "doesn't get" pro sports. You
wrote, "Pro sports at their best give people a way to express and solidify
community -- it's something for people to come together around, to root for, to
identify with. There's nothing inherently wrong with that, and its power is
evident in how loyal people remain even after team owners and league presidents
treat fans like dirt year after year after year."

As far as I'm concerned, the fact that fans remain loyal even after being
treated like dirt year after year may speak to the power of pro sports, but it
doesn't speak to anything I regard as a positive thing. If people remain loyal
fans despite years of mistreatment, that's sad -- it speaks to some kind of void
in their lives.

Marc Fisher:  Could be that you're right--there's a void in all of our lives.
But it could also be that there is something emboldening about rooting for and
feeling an emotional attachment to a loser. Go rent "Damn Yankees," or read the
book it's based on, "The Year The Yankees Lost The Pennant." The story is based
in Chevy Chase, and the book sets the scene there beautifully. It will teach you
a lot about the value of letting yourself fall in love with a loser.

_______________________

Photo Nazis strike aga, IN: Hi Marc,  You were the first person I thought of
after this happened.

On Monday after the game, my husband, 1-year-old daughter and I were walking by
the DOT building on our way to the car. They put in some new sculptures and
signs along "Transportation Walk" -- specifically, three vintage gas pumps that
were restored. My husband took a couple of photos of our daughter in front of
one, but when he went to take a photo of another gas pump by itself, the
security guard came up and told him that he was not allowed to take photos.

There are no signs posted that prohibit taking photos there, and it's a public
building. So why isn't he allowed to take photos there?

Time for an organized protest?

Marc Fisher:  Yes, absolutely--the only proven effective way to get these absurd
anti-photography tactics stopped is to organize and protest. Effective
letter-writing, publicity and civil disobedience campaigns have turned around
such idiotic practices at Union Station, at the downtown Silver Spring shopping
area, and in front of several federal government buildings. But you do need to
embarrass them and confront them or the security guards will run roughshod over
innocent tourists and photographers.

_______________________

Brookville: I don't think the Nats have an audience substantial enough to merit
all the press they receive. In an area of several million I would guess that
avid Nats fans number in the thousands, and that the total number of folks
interested in the Nats, including casual fans, would be in the neighborhood of
50,000.

Marc Fisher:  You may not be interested, but the attendance at Nats game proves
you wrong--attendance was less than stellar last year and is likely to drop
considerably this year, but looking across the first four years of baseball's
return to Washington, it's clear that 2 million people a year value having the
team here. Of course, that's not two million different people--the team had
about 24,000 season ticket holders last year, but remember that many, if not
most, of those season tickets are shared by groups of people, so the actual
number of folks coming to games is much larger than the number of people
registered as season ticket holders. In any event, no one would yet call this a
solid baseball town, but the interest level has been more than sufficient to put
the Nats in the middle of the pack in attendance through their first few
seasons.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: According to the D.C. City Counmcil Web site, the Act renaming
South Capital Street by Nationals Park to Taxation Without Representation Street
become law on March 21 (Law# L17-0332). Yet when I walked along Taxation Without
Representation Street on Opening Day, there were no street signs acknowledging
the change. Given that the Act renaming South Capital Street was passed late
last year, the City had ample time to prepare for the law's enactment -- yet
nothing has been done thus far. What gives? While I can see the Nationals
ignoring the law that renames South Capital Street by the ballpark, I am
perplexed that the city is also giving this symbolic channge lip service at
best. In your opinion, how serious is the City in its efforts to obtain full
representation in Congress?

Marc Fisher:  I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for those street signs. Many of
the symbolic little gestures that the D.C. Council and government offer in
response to the voting rights movement are meant mainly to get the activists off
the politicians' backs. Some D.C. pols are really committed to voting rights,
but others just see it as an annoyance, a persistent reminder of how powerless
the city's elected officials really are. They consider the voting rights and
statehood activists to be annoying pests, and they often throw them sops of that
sort, without any real intent of following up.

_______________________

Section 409, Row F: Glad to see a sell out on opening day -- how do they "sell
out" with so many empty seats? And how could the beer vendor I stood in line for
run out of beer cups in the 4th inning? The Teddy bobble-head sold in the team
store is labeled "Rossevelt" -- is this supposed to be a joke? I think it's
going to be a long season.

Marc Fisher:  I didn't see many empty seats except for the continuing
foolishness of the vast empty stretch immediately behind home plate, the
megabucks seats that have never sold because they are preposterously overpriced.
The team seems not to care in the slightest that the most common TV picture of
the stadium is of a broad swath of empty seats right behind the batter--an image
that cements in casual viewers the idea that no one goes to the games, even when
the rest of the stadium is full.

The modern baseball economy is very much based on those ultra-high priced seats,
but if they're not selling at all, then oughtn't the model be a bit tweaked? And
what would be so horrible about giving away at least some of those unsold seats,
if only to the uniformed service members whom the Nats seem so solicitous of?
(What was the deal with the "surprise" Opening Day first ball tosser who turned
out to be five random military service members? The Nats couldn't get a single
well-known, interesting figure to do the honors?)

_______________________

Falls Church, Va.: If I get hit by an illegal immigrant, let's not pretend that
it makes a difference whether or not he has a driver's license. And the notion
that he's going to get car insurance if he has a license is just fantasy.

Look, it would be great if I could walk into the DMV without any proof of
identity and say "sign me up." Heck, I'd get a bunch of different driver's
licenses if that were true. But the reality is that we all have to provide some
sort of proof of who we are, and we have for a long time. The suggestion that
also having to prove citizenship is somehow an enormous additional hardship is
at odds with reality.

Marc Fisher:  Well, it is indeed a big change and an onerous one--when I renew
my license, I don't need to show anything but my old license. Now, people are
going to have to bring in a passport, and if they don't have one, all manner of
other documents, and you know how wonderfully flexible the DMV people tend to be
about which documents you have with you...

_______________________

Kensington, Md.: Having owned a profitable used book shop for 23 years, I can
feel for what Vertigo (a new book store) is going through, but the truth is that
unless you're in a certain type of neighborhood that has both lots of high
income folks AND a sense of obligation to support local businesses, there's only
so much that can be done -- nobody, but nobody worked harder than Vertigo to
give back to their community.

One particular thing that the Post might do, though, is to write more features
on good independent book stores BEFORE they croak, not just when they're on
their last legs. The best used book shop in the area by far, far and away is
Bartleby's in Georgetown, which amazingly enough operates in the black, and yet
it's been well over a decade since I've seen anything written about John
Thomson's wonderful shop in your paper. It might be a story worth pursuing.

Marc Fisher:  Agreed--Vertigo gave it their all and did a fabulous job of
spreading the word about their shop's special character, unique events and
personal service. But in fact, the Post has if anything way overcovered the
independent bookstores for years and years before they close. I cannot begin to
count the number of pieces we did, for example, about Chapters, the ill-fated
downtown D.C. bookshop that was beloved by some of the paper's best writers and
therefore became a kind of cause celebre in this newsroom. But for all the
vaunted power of the press, the fact was that the downtown market just didn't
support a smart and literary bookshop, no matter how attractive it may have been
to newspaper feature writers.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: "How can we persuade Ted Leonsis to buy the Redskins?"

If the Caps beat the Rangers it will be their first series win since Leonsis
bought the team, in that time the Redskins have twice advanced to the second
round. The first seven or so years after Ted bought the Caps they were one of
the worst teams in the league, giving them the lucky break of having the first
overall draft pick in a year when the best player of his generation happened to
be available. More than half the teams in the NHL make it to the playoffs; the
Caps still have a lot to prove.

Marc Fisher:  Sure, they have a ways to go to win a championship, but they are
real and serious contenders, and for many fans, that's more than enough.
Everyone wants to go all the way, but being in the game is what it's about. More
important, the experience of going to a Caps game has been dramatically improved
and you won't find a more involved and satisfied sports crowd in town.

_______________________

whether it carried a book written by an conservative author. The employee very
rudely questioned my intelligence and education and told me that her store would
NEVER carry "fascist propaganda" like that. I never went back.: It's okay they
don't carry the conservative book, but it's not okay to be rude to customers.
All they had to do was diplomatically point out that they don't have it, and
wouldn't likely be getting it due to the stores liberal leanings. And in any
case, the clerk didn't know why you wanted the book. Maybe you wanted to read it
to be better informed before knocking it. Or not. Either way, no cause for
rudeness.

Marc Fisher:  Absolutely--businesses that sneer at their customers and lord
their own political views over the folks who keep them afloat won't be long for
this world.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: On the not filing if you don't owe thing...I remember a
while ago a citizen did not file for years, as he did not owe. He did it to make
a point, I forgot where I read or head about it. I remember him saying that
according to statute he actually did NOT have to file if he did not owe and was
not entitled to a large refund.

Marc Fisher:  These are called tax defiers, and there's a fascinating piece
about them in today's Post, by Del Quentin Wilber, focusing on a case of a D.C.
police detective who didn't pay a penny to the federal or city governments over
a three-year period in which he earned more than $450,000. Amazing.

_______________________

Street Renaming: In answer to the earlier chatter's question about "Taxation
Without Representation" Street, here's my take: The requisition for new street
signs has been resubmitted for the fourth time, after the procurement office
lost the first three. The signs will eventually be produced and delivered,
through a no-bid process, by a company owned by the brother-in-law of someone in
the D.C. procurement office. They will be the wrong size for the mountings. New
signs will be ordered, and by about 2011 you might see them. My personal
prediction is that the signs, if they ever actually get produced and mounted,
will read something like "Taxation Without Represation."

Marc Fisher:  My, what a splendid crystal ball you have there. Can you also tell
me how long America's newspapers will remain in print?

_______________________

Washington is a one sports town: It's not a stereotype, it's true. That doesn't
mean they don't support winners, they do. But the 'Skins are the only sports
franchise that gets support come hell and high water. And if you don't believe
that, all you have to do is follow the way the Post covers sports. Or have gone
to a Caps game three years ago. Whenever they played Pittsburgh, Philly, New
York, Detroit or Buffalo, you'd have thought you were magically transported to
the visiting team's city.

Marc Fisher:  Ah, but you're leaving out basketball--this is a very strong
basketball city, not necessarily at the pro level, but certainly over the years
at the college and high school levels, both in terms of producing talent and in
fan support.

_______________________

Sec 114, Row E: Sure - it would be nice to have a view of the Capitol from Nats
Park. But the fact is, in a few years, there'll be multiple buildings blocking
that view of the Capitol. Assuming the economy bounces back and that area gets
built out.

I wish that they'd move the tent from one garage to the other -- they DO have a
view of the Capitol for now. It's patently ignorant for them to block it now in
the short time that the do have it.

Marc Fisher:  Good points--putting the tent on the other garage would help.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: When Stan Kasten and the Lerners complain about low attendance
at Nationals Park this summer, I wonder if they realize the public relations
damage they did when they refused to pay taxes last year because the stadium
wasn't "completely finished."

They decided to play hardball with the same people who gave them a FREE 600
million dollar stadium. I used to go to games all the time, but it will be a
long time before I go again. These guys are the definition of penny wise and
pound foolish.

Marc Fisher:  Well, the team seems to have gotten that message and not only
resolved their dispute but made a point of paying early and fully this year.
That said, the owners are tough cookies and making generous gestures to fans or
to the city doesn't seem to come easily to them. Still, they have lowered ticket
prices this year and upped the number of giveaways at the stadium. The fan
experience is clearly stronger this year; alas, the experience on the field,
despite all the hype, may not be.

_______________________

Nats comment: I love the free RFK shuttle, couldn't come to games otherwise, but
the handicap shuttle was not running after Monday's game and this caused
problems for a lot of people. There were numerous trans, but they were all "VIP"
trams that were taking able-bodied people to restaurants and couldn't divert to
the RFK buses unless you paid them some ungodly sum, e.g. $20 or $30. One of
them said, the restaurants pay us; the Nats don't. Apparently the Nats' drivers
rely on tips?

I am hobbled and recently had a heart attack, so have to catch my breath every
few steps. When I told my sister I had walked back to the bus stop, she asked,
are you calling from the hospital? I've left a message for the Nats but it has
not yet been returned. I know they read your chat so hope this will alert them
to the problem.

Marc Fisher:  That's not good--I hope that gets fixed. You should not only call
the Nats general number, but also leave word with ownership--that's the sort of
thing that may require executive attention to fix, but that needs to happen.

_______________________

Washington SW: Re: Nationals, Last season we heard the team boasting about its
depth at reliever, the team could not score, so now they traded off what talent
they had for hitting, so we are losing games in high score shootouts?

How long till this team learns that you have to keep your talent to become
better.

Marc Fisher:  They did seem to focus on hitting to the exclusion of everything
else, relying far too heavily on the idea that their bright young pitching
prospects would come along soon and in a big way. That seems overly optimistic
at this point, and you cannot be a respectable team without decent pitching. But
the shortage of good pitching is evident throughout the sport right now--it's a
real problem.

_______________________

re: Jeez, people, get a life.: Haha. I suppose one could say the same about
people who get all hot and bothered about people who like sports. It's not like
you've given some reason it's bad, you just don't like it. So use your brain to
think about something else that is worth your time.

For those of us who enjoy watching sports, many of us like it because it gives
us a break from thinking about all the bad news in the world. Sure, there is
some bad news in sports, but it's mostly fun. Going to the ballpark, getting a
hotdog, yelling with the other fans. If you don't like it, do something else.
I'm sure you're into something others don't "get," doesn't make it stupid.

Marc Fisher:  Exactly--jeering at a game is the equivalent of Orwell's Two
Minutes Hate, and with far more jovial intent and impact. It's sad to see high
schools and colleges trying to crack down on fans exercising their emotions,
often in clever ways. Athletes get all the glory; the price they pay is they get
to be the targets of all sorts of public criticism--most of it in the end fairly
fun and anything but serious.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: You want want the Emilio Bonifacio trade back after just 7
games that Willingham has barely played in? Do you follow the game? This is the
kind of thinking that permeates WP coverage of the team. I firmly beleive that
WP would prefer that the team keep losing so the reporter who's embarassed to
cover sports has an angle handed to him. Stay out of the ball park if all you
want to do is complain about the team. They will win someday and there you'll be
with your homer hanky, rally monkey, and rally sticks, right.

Marc Fisher:  That's pretty good--sportswriters, like any writers, love a good
story. Doesn't much matter if it's a winning story or a losing story, though
being around world-class losers isn't as much fun. I grew up rooting for teams
that never won, so it's deeply ingrained in me, so much so that I feel sort of
guilty when the teams I like do become big-time winners. But not that guilty.

_______________________

Pentagon City, Va.: Marc, great article on Vertigo. And maybe the Post is
oversaturated with stories on disappearing bookstores, because that's the
affinity of journalists. I would suggest telling the stories of some of the many
other small independent retail chains that are trying to remake themselves into
unique 'destinations' on razor-thin dimishing margins -- shoe stores, bicycle
stores, hobby shops, etc. Independent retail is a dying breed in so many
industries, it's time to document its final days.

washingtonpost.com: Getting Vertigo Over Lost Bookstores (Raw Fisher, April 15)

Marc Fisher:  Excellent point--I've been trying to do that in recent weeks (my
visit to a struggling used car dealer, for example) and more such stories are in
the works, including a very different kind of local independent business coming
up this Sunday.

_______________________

Chapters: Chapters failed because they could not keep a lease and because they
were too snooty and because they did not make people feel welcome in their
store.

I tried to support them, but it just got too wearing.

Marc Fisher:  My problem with them was one that all failing businesses
confront--just when their most loyal supporters wanted to give them a boost, it
was hard to do so because the stock in the store was so deeply diminished. It's
hard to keep up the appearance of offering lots of service and wares if you're
barely holding it together financially.

_______________________

Montgomery Village, Md.: Marc -- Any idea IF or when D.C.'s "Tax evader for
Life" Marion Barry will file his 2008 taxes or will keep his string of late
filings alive? His record is worse than the Nats. They are only 0-7.

Marc Fisher:  We'll find out more on that front tomorrow, when the ex-Mayor For
Life appears in federal court.

_______________________

Leesburg, Va.: Marc, was it difficult to get into work today considering the
thousands of protesters and their billions of tea bags? Was Metro able to handle
the surge of ridership, and how did it compare to the Cherry Blossom ridership
from the other week?

I can only imagine that things are a logistical nightmare right now.

Marc Fisher:  Ha!

This is not exactly the market in which you'd find much support for that cause.
No sign of any big protests anywhere near here.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md.: I moved here from Atlanta and lived there when the Braves
were really bad. We had $5 seats (I doubt those are offered these days), took
our kids (had dinner or whatever before going to the ballpark) and had a blast!
Go to the games, have a good time and a little patience . . .

Marc Fisher:  Even a loser of a team offers many fulfilling experiences--there
are always interesting players with great potential, and then there's the
cameraderie in losing.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md.: I moved here from Atlanta and lived there when the Braves
were really bad. We had $5 seats (I doubt those are offered these days), took
our kids (had dinner or whatever before going to the ballpark) and had a blast!
Go to the games, have a good time and a little patience . . .

Marc Fisher:  Even a loser of a team offers many fulfilling experiences--there
are always interesting players with great potential, and then there's the
cameraderie in losing.

Marc Fisher:  Even a loser of a team offers many fulfilling experiences--there
are always interesting players with great potential, and then there's the
cameraderie in losing.

_______________________

Gaithersburg, Md.: I moved here from Atlanta and lived there when the Braves
were really bad. We had $5 seats (I doubt those are offered these days), took
our kids (had dinner or whatever before going to the ballpark) and had a blast!
Go to the games, have a good time and a little patience . . .

Marc Fisher:  Even a loser of a team offers many fulfilling experiences--there
are always interesting players with great potential, and then there's the
cameraderie in losing.

Marc Fisher:  Even a loser of a team offers many fulfilling experiences--there
are always interesting players with great potential, and then there's the
cameraderie in losing.

Marc Fisher:  Even a loser of a team offers many fulfilling experiences--there
are always interesting players with great potential, and then there's the
cameraderie in losing.

_______________________

Response to Arlington Non-Sports Fan: If I may answer the person earlier in the
chat who didn't understand the appeal of pro sports: I go because I get to see
people play a game I love at a level of skill far above anything I could ever do
myself. I mean, lots of people play musical instruments but few would qualify to
join the National Symphony Orchestra.

Marc Fisher:  Nice answer.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Please, no more first dog stories -- especially on the front
page! If I wanted to subscribe to a gossip and celebrity rag I'd send my
subscription $ to People. If the Post want to do more dog stories, count this 10
plus year subscriber out.

Marc Fisher:  I don't read dog stories, I don't write dog stories, and I don't
get dog stories. But, that said, they are hugely popular and they will never go
away. It's like the posts earlier this hour from the reader who is left flat by
professional sports--you can never please everyone, nor should you try, but
rather just accept that there are certain kinds of stories and interests that
you will never get. Dogs, for example. Or anniversary stories--who cares if it's
35 years since some battle or some structure was built? But we do the stories
and when we don't, people go ballistic. Go figure.

_______________________

Bedbugs: What's your thought on Milbank's not-so-serious article on bedbugs? As
someone who got a nasty infestation of bugs from a neighbor a while back, I was
upset at the cavilier attitude of many of the comments.

Bedbugs are nasty, and very difficult to eradicate once they are in a home. If
you live in a condo or apartment, you can become infested simply by a neighbor
bringing in an infected item to THEIR house, and the bugs can travel to yours.

This has become a larger problem in recent years, but the author and many
readers took it as something of a joke - what are your thoughts as to why?

washingtonpost.com: Going to the Mattress (Post, April 15)

Marc Fisher:  We once had bedbugs, in Miami, the result of...dogs. Somebody
brought a dog into our place and it brought bedbugs, and the result was ugly. So
I get your point that they're nasty. But it's still funny, and Milbank scored
with this column. I give it an 8.8.

_______________________

Marc Fisher:  That has to kick things in the head for today--thanks for tuning
in on an off day. Back in the regular slot next week, and in the paper tomorrow
and Sunday. The blog's always cooking over at Raw Fisher. Have a great rest of
the week.

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2009 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Cleaning Firm Used Illegal Workers at Chertoff Home

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1020 words


Every few weeks for nearly four years, the Secret Service screened the IDs of
employees for a Maryland cleaning company before they entered the house of
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, the nation's top immigration
official.

The company's owner says the workers sailed through the checks -- although some
of them turned out to be illegal immigrants.

Now, owner James D. Reid finds himself in a predicament that he considers
especially confounding. In October, he was fined $22,880 after U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement investigators said he failed to check identification and
work documents and fill out required I-9 verification forms for employees, five
of whom he said were part of crews sent to Chertoff's home and whom ICE told him
to fire because they were undocumented.

"Our people need to know," said the Montgomery County businessman. "Our Homeland
Security can't police their own home. How can they police our borders?"

Reid admits he made mistakes but called the fine so excessive that it may put
him out of business. Several of his workers moved after ICE agents showed up at
their homes, he said.

Raising a common objection among employers as ICE cracks down on illegal hirings
across the country, Reid said it is unreasonable to expect businesspeople to
distinguish between fake and real driver's licenses and Social Security cards.

Immigration laws are unevenly enforced, he added, allowing big companies to stay
in business while crushing small-business owners and workers. He said the rules
punish "scapegoats" such as him while inviting people at every level --
customers, subcontractors and contractors -- to look the other way while
benefiting economically from cheaper labor.

"No one wants to put the blame on the head; they'd rather put the blame on the
business owner," said Reid, who owns Consistent Cleaning Services. "Damned if I
should be fined for employees that I took over to their house."

Chertoff declined to comment. "We're very constrained in what we can say about
anybody who has any kind of issue with the department," he said.

The Secret Service uses workers' ID information to conduct security checks, not
immigration checks, much like most police departments do when they pull over
people for traffic stops.

Eric Zahren, a spokesman for the service, which is part of Chertoff's
department, declined to discuss specific screening practices. But he said agents
protecting the secretary "would have run the appropriate checks, screened and
escorted people as appropriate in order to maintain the security of the
residence and our protectee's security."

Department of Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke said that in this type of
investigation, ICE focuses on the employers, not where employees are dispatched.
He said that contractors have the responsibility of ensuring that their workers
are legal, and that the Chertoffs were assured by Reid that workers sent to
their home were legal. Upon learning that Reid might have hired illegal
immigrants, the Chertoffs fired him, and the secretary recused himself from the
department's subsequent enforcement actions, Knocke said.

"This matter illustrates the need for comprehensive immigration reform and the
importance of effective tools for companies to determine the lawful status of
their workforce," he said.

The Bush administration has pushed to expand employers' use of E-Verify, for
instance, an electronic system that can confirm new hires' work documents
against federal databases.

In addition to the Chertoffs' house, Reid said, his service once cleaned the
Washington home of former president Bill Clinton and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton
(D-N.Y.), now secretary of state-designee, as well as homes of another Bush
Cabinet member and Clinton Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. In those
cases, he said, his company worked as a subcontractor and billing was done by a
larger contractor firm.

ICE investigated Reid's company under a 1986 federal law barring employers from
knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. It provides for civil and criminal
penalties against employers who do not examine workers' documents and keep
completed I-9 forms.

In February, ICE agents singled out Reid's company, and they subpoenaed two
years of payroll and I-9 records this summer, a U.S. official said. Reid was
fined $2,750 for hiring violations and $20,130 for not completing paperwork.

His offenses included failing to ask for IDs from or fill out I-9 forms for
several workers who turned out to be in the country illegally. Reid said he also
did not verify the eligibility of people he knew were native-born U.S. citizens,
including himself, his stepbrother, his sister and his sister's friend.

ICE policy states that companies are not randomly selected for scrutiny and that
all investigations are based on tips or intelligence. ICE spokeswoman Kelly
Nantel said Reid was targeted under a year-old initiative called Project Safe
Harbor, in which field offices pursue employers in the service, agriculture and
fast-food industries.

Nantel declined to say when the Chertoffs learned of the investigation. She
likened the couple to restaurant or hotel customers who take the owner's word
that its workers are legal.

Reid said he was referred to the Chertoffs in 2005 and worked mainly with the
secretary's wife, Meryl J. Chertoff, an adjunct professor and director of the
Sandra Day O'Connor Project on the State of the Judiciary at Georgetown Law
School. Reid's calendar shows that the Chertoffs paid $185 per visit for his
company to clean their suburban Maryland home.

Reid said he routinely asked workers to give personal information to Secret
Service agents and assumed the workers were authorized because they were
cleared.

Chertoff's situation appeared to be different from a case announced last week in
which federal prosecutors arrested Lorraine Henderson, the Boston port director
for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, another part of Chertoff's department,
on charges that she repeatedly hired illegal immigrants to clean her
condominium.

Staff researcher Julie Tate and research editor Alice Crites contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Ints Kalnins -- Reuters; A spokesman said Michael Chertoff
was told that the workers were legal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Napolitano Pledges Shift In Immigration Focus

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 593 words


Janet Napolitano, President-elect Barack Obama's nominee to head the Department
of Homeland Security, vowed yesterday at her Senate confirmation hearing to
shift the focus of U.S. immigration enforcement from illegal workers to the
prosecution of employers who hire those workers, signaling a clear break with
the outgoing Bush administration.

In remarks and written answers to senators, the two-term Arizona governor
offered few details but said she would lead a broad reexamination of the
department's security policies in the coming year. Among other things, she said
she would revisit a controversial and costly plan to tighten national standards
for driver's licenses, would devote more resources to rail and maritime
security, and may push back a 2012 deadline to screen all U.S.-bound containers
at foreign ports.

"The department has come a long way, but there is a ways to go," Napolitano, 51,
told members of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. ". . .
Changes need to be made."

Napolitano drew a warm, bipartisan welcome in a workmanlike two-hour appearance,
though only nine senators -- about half the panel's members -- showed up to ask
questions, just two of them Republicans. Committee officials said they expect
Napolitano to be confirmed by the full Senate as soon as Obama is sworn in
Tuesday.

Still, Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) warned that the honeymoon will be brief for
Napolitano, the first Democrat to take over the sprawling, 200,000-worker
department. The agency is considered one of the government's most troubled
bureaucracies, with a portfolio spanning from terrorism to hurricane response to
border control.

"You're taking on one of the biggest and maybe one of the most difficult jobs in
our country in terms of government," McCaskill said. "It's all going to be warm
and fuzzy today, and that's probably going to be it."

In an 83-page policy questionnaire, Napolitano said she would consider "a broad
range of changes" to Bush immigration policies, whose focus on raids, criminal
prosecutions and expedited deportation of immigrants has been criticized by
immigrant advocates and civil liberties groups as unduly harsh.

"I expect to increase the focus on ensuring that employers of unlawful workers
are prosecuted," she said.

Napolitano said the federal government has not done enough to secure rail
systems and small boats. She said it also needs to bolster cybersecurity and
work with the private sector to protect critical infrastructure, such as
chemical plants and academic biological research facilities.

Napolitano vowed to "create a unified vision" for the department, improve its
personnel, and strengthen cooperation with state and local governments.

"The federal government cannot do the homeland-security function alone," she
said.

She said she would work with the nation's governors to rein back Real ID, the
driver's license requirements designed to improve the security of identification
documents, "not out of a philosophical objection . . . but because it's a huge
fiscal burden."

"With the condition of the states fiscally, I don't think we can reasonably
anticipate that they have money available now to put into an enhanced driver's
license program," she said.

Napolitano, who served as U.S. attorney for Arizona and state attorney general,
rebutted criticism that her rÃ©sumÃ© lacks counterterrorism credentials. As U.S.
attorney, she said, she gained direct experience when her office helped
investigate the 1995 bombing in Oklahoma City and prosecuted a militia group in
a separate bombing plot.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                     November 14, 2008 Friday 11:50 AM EST

Government to Limit Planned Crackdown on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Spencer Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 859 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Department of Homeland Security has significantly narrowed the
scope of a planned crackdown on federal contractor's employment of illegal
immigrants.


The Department of Homeland Security  has significantly narrowed the scope of a
planned crackdown on federal contractor's employment of illegal immigrants.

The agency announced yesterday that it would go forward with a new policy
requiring federal contractors to check the work documents of existing workers
and subsequent hires using an electronic government system. The new policy will
apply to contracts and solicitations issued after Jan. 15, but it will apply to
far fewer contractors than would have been affected under the original proposal.

The Bush administration has made the work eligibility system, called E-Verify, a
main pillar of its fight against illegal immigration, proposing to make its use
mandatory for nearly 200,000 government contractors, covering about 4 million
U.S. workers. Participation in E-Verify is now generally voluntary, although 13
state legislatures have enacted similar legislation for state contractors.

However, a revised final rule to be published today in the Federal Register
would limit its application to contracts worth $100,000 or more, instead of
$3,000, and require employers to check the eligibility only of workers on those
contracts, instead of all their workers. The changes would apply to
solicitations or awards made after Jan. 15, and exempt workers who have already
received security clearances, contracts for commercial, off-the-shelf items, and
contracts lasting less than 120 days.

Randel K. Johnson, vice president and spokesman for the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, said the administration "had been responsive to a substantial amount
of business concerns," particularly by limiting the rule to large contractors,
to new contracts and to workers on those contracts.

"The chamber met with a variety of companies this morning and are reviewing our
litigation options," Johnson said, adding, "but litigation is expensive."

Still, federal contractors said the lame-duck administration was trying to force
through the sweeping change before it might be cancelled by its successor.

The proposal "vastly understates the burden imposed on employers, and leaves
unanswered a number of fundamental questions," said Eric Bord, an attorney at
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius who represents companies facing immigration
investigations.

Bush officials in early June proposed to double the number of companies in the
program, mandating participation by 169,000 federal contractors and requiring
them for the first time to verify the eligibility of existing employees, not
just new hires.

Using E-Verify, companies can check federal Social Security and immigration
databases to determine whether an employee is authorized to work. Enrollment in
the program has grown from 3,000 companies to 92,000 since it was expanded
nationwide in 2003, but it covers only 1 percent of an estimated 6 million U.S.
employers and about 11 percent of annual hiring.

Business groups had complained the proposal goes beyond what Congress intended
when it created the voluntary system in 1996. The U.S. chamber initially claimed
the rule would cost $10 billion to implement, 100 times the government's
estimate, if contractors and subcontractors with even a small piece of the $430
billion that the federal government awards each year needed to review their
entire payrolls.

The American Civil Liberties Union today sharply criticized the new rule.

"E-Verify has been problematic since its inception Â¿ hobbled by bureaucratic
errors in individuals' Social Security files and runaway costs Â¿ preventing
innocent Americans from working," added Timothy Sparapani, ACLU Senior
Legislative Counsel. "The costs of moving forward with such a troubled
initiative will be felt by all Americans, either in lost tax revenues for the
elderly and disabled, or by those who will be prevented from working due to
systemic errors out of their control. During times of such economic hardship,
the federal government should be wary of any initiative that would compound the
struggles of our American workforce. E-Verify represents bad policy, as well as
bad politics, and should be scrapped by Congress."

The announced changes will slow E-Verify's expansion, but federal officials
stood by their prediction that the initiative will eventually cover more than 20
percent of U.S. hiring, DHS spokeswoman Laura Keehner said.

Grand-fathered contracts will eventually expire, Keehner said, and big employers
also may choose under the rule to verify the immigration status of all
employees, not just those working on federal business.

"Many will find doing so easier than parcelling out their workforce" for
verification, Keehner said. The new rule "provides a transition period, but will
eventually cover substantially more employees," she added.

In a statement released on the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
website, the Bush administration said it took into account 1,600 comments and
made changes "designed to lighten the burden on small businesses who decide to
accept federal contracts, and to provide contractors with flexible means of
complying with the basic requirement that all persons working on federal
contracts be electronically verified."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2008 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                    February 11, 2009 Wednesday 2:26 PM EST

Advisory Group Urges Freeze on Construction of Border Fence

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writer, washingtonpost.com

LENGTH: 854 words



HIGHLIGHT: Members of an influential Washington think tank today recommended
major changes in the nation's immigration policy, including freezing
construction of a security fence along the U.S.- Mexican border and suspending
"zero-tolerance" prosecution programs against all people caught crossing
segments of the border.


Members of an influential Washington think tank today recommended major changes
in the nation's immigration policy, including freezing construction of a
security fence along the U.S.- Mexican border and suspending "zero-tolerance"
prosecution programs against all people caught crossing segments of the border.

The Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan group whose presenters included
former U.S. immigration chiefs under both parties,  recommended 36 steps the
Obama administration can take without congressional approval to alter policies
developed during the Bush administration.  The policy experts also urged
withdrawing a plan to pressure employers to fire workers with suspect Social
Security numbers.

One of the group members, Doris Meissner, former commissioner of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, informally consulted with Obama aides
during the transition. Janet Napolitano, President Obama's Homeland Security
Secretary, has already announced a broad internal assessment of DHS policies.

"Regardless of how or whether Congress and the White House ultimately come to
agreement on new immigration legislation, the DHS immigration agencies require
policy and operational changes to improve their effectiveness and ability to
implement existing laws," said  Meissner,  a co-author of the MPI report, titled
"DHS and Immigration: Taking Stock and Correcting Course."

Donald Kerwin, MPI vice president for programs and co-author of the
recommendations, said the report was intended to provide "a middle course" for
the administration, between enforcement-only advocates who seek to restrict
immigration and business and immigrant community advocates who seek  less
fettered flows of people. The report limited itself to immediate steps DHS can
take without further reorganization.

Overall, the authors suggested that DHS target enforcement against criminal
networks that sustain large-scale illegal migration and that could aid
terrorists; against employers who rely on illegal workers to gain unfair
competitive advantage or whom terrorists may attempt to infiltrate; and
routinely bring criminal charges against individuals only when they are
repeat-offenders or have committed unrelated crimes.

By contrast, the Bush administration quadrupled criminal prosecutions of
immigration violators between 2003 and 2008, to 79,400, in part through programs
such as Operation Streamline, which filed minor charges against virtually all
people caught crossing parts of the Texas and Arizona borders. Advocates say
such programs are an effective deterrent that reduce illegal crossing.

Critics say that the government lacks the resources to sustain the strategy and
that it diverts resources from more serious crimes such as drug and human
smuggling, accounting for about half of total U.S. criminal cases, more than
referrals by the FBI and Drug Enforcement Agency combined.

The MPI report recommended halting such programs until  Department of Justice
and Homeland Security officials determine if they reduce illegal immigration
across the entire border or prevent prosecution of more serious crimes.

So far, Napolitano has signaled a greater focus of enforcement resources against
employers and immigrants who have committed other crimes, and defended DHS
efforts to complete the last 10 percent of 670 miles of fencing planned for the
southern border.

The MPI report said the border project is expensive, controversial, poorly
coordinated and behind schedule and should be reassessed.

It also urged the withdrawal of a proposal to pressure employers to fire workers
who are the subject of Social Security "no-match" letters, indicating their work
papers may be involved in fraud, saying the program may duplicate other
enforcement efforts and discourage workers from correcting honest mistakes.  The
Obama administration has delayed its response, until April 10, to a lawsuit
filed by business and labor groups in federal court in San Francisco to stop the
proposed regulation.

Instead, the MPI report recommended extending voluntary compliance with
E-Verify, an electronic government system that lets employers check new hires'
work and immigration documents, and that relies in part on the same Social
Security data.

The House stimulus bill proposes to make E-Verify mandatory for all employers
receiving funding under the package, while the Obama administration has delayed
a pending regulation to make it mandatory for federal contractors for review.

Bush officials often said that tough immigration tactics were necessary to
restore the public's faith in government and Washington's credibility. Kerwin
and Meissner said their recommendations also will build confidence in DHS's
ability to enforce laws already on the books and to undertake the challenge of
any broad congressional overhaul.

"The immigration agencies in DHS have strengthened the security of the
immigration system substantially ... but that is not enough," Meissner said. An
effective legal immigration system is also in the national interest, central to
the country's values, economic strength and social integration, she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2009 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                               Washingtonpost.com

                       March 3, 2009 Tuesday 2:30 PM EST

Arrest Warrant Issued in Chandra Levy Case;
Illegal Immigrant Charged With First-Degree Murder

BYLINE: Jonna Spilbor, Criminal Defense Attorney, washingtonpost.com

SECTION: LIVEONLINE

LENGTH: 1651 words



HIGHLIGHT: D.C. police and federal prosecutors have announced they have charged
an illegal immigrant from El Salvador with first-degree murder in the death of
Chandra Levy in Rock Creek Park in May 2001. Ingmar Guandique, 27, is already
serving a 10-year prison sentence for attacking two other women at knifepoint in
the park around the time of Levy's disappearance.


D.C. police and federal prosecutors have announced they have charged an illegal
immigrant from El Salvador with first-degree murder in the death of Chandra Levy
in Rock Creek Park in May 2001. Ingmar Guandique, 27, is already serving a
10-year prison sentence for attacking two other women at knifepoint in the park
around the time of Levy's disappearance.

Criminal defense attorney Jonna Spilbor was online Tuesday, March 3, at 2:30
p.m. ET to discuss this latest development in the case.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Reston, Va.: My ex-husband, and father of my three sons, was killed in a hit and
run. The police ultimately issued a warrant for a man who was also an illegal
immigrant from El Salvador. The difference is that he somehow was able to get
himself deported the day before the police were able to identify him as the
driver. He is back in El Salvador now and since we have no extradition treaty he
is as free as a bird. Do you have any ideas for us? Thanks.

Jonna Spilbor: I am so sorry -- but you are correct in that without an
extradiction treaty there is not much you can do. You should however, continue
to check with the District Attorney in your jurisdiction.

_______________________

Statute of limitations?: What is the statute of limitations on a crime like
this? Is there one?

Jonna Spilbor: Statutes of limitations vary from state to state, and crime to
crime, however, in murder cases, there is usually no statute of limitations, or
a very lengthy one at that. In this case, the statute of limitations will not be
a bar to prosecution.

_______________________

D.C.: Some news outlets are reporting that the U.S. Attorney said Chandra Levy
was attacked while walking her dog. That's not right, is it? I don't remember
her having a dog...

Jonna Spilbor: I too read that report, and recall back in 2001 it was widely
reported that Ms. Levy was killed while jogging. In the years thatt have ensued,
it is possible that the facts as authorities thought them to be, were incorrect.
Don't be surprised if newly discovered evidence indicates that Ms. Levy was
engaged in an activity other than jogging.

_______________________

Rockville, Md. : Jonna, why did it take this long for the police to charge this
guy? The Post ran the follow-up series last year -- it sort of amazes me that
they waited until now to issue the warrant.

Jonna Spilbor: From a prosecution standpoint, it is often better to wait before
charging a person, than to charge hastily. Charging hastily can destroy what
later might have become a solid case.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: The suspect is already in jail, correct? If so, how will a trial
unfold? Is it the sort of thing where the authorities will bring him back to the
District to try him? And if so, where would he ultimately serve time?

Jonna Spilbor: Yes, the suspect is in custody in California, but his
incarceration will not prevent him from facing charges in D.C. for the killing
of Ms. Levy.

_______________________

Dupont Circle, D.C.: What will happen next? I am quite relieved. Ms. Levy lived
across the hall from me and I had spoken with her from time to time.

Jonna Spilbor: Since the suspect is located out of state, he will most likely
face extradition to the charging state (D.C.) For the period that he is lawfully
in the custody of the Department of Correction in California, you can rest
assured he will remain in custody in D.C. while the case against him proceeds.
In other words, he will not be "free" while the case in D.C. is pending.

_______________________

Vienna, Va.: What type of "new evidence" could the police have been able to find
now and not back in 2001?

Jonna Spilbor: The answer to that is as broad as the horizon! We don't know if
new witnesses came forward (although I believe there is a report that the
suspect was brought to the attention of police by a fellow inmate), or whether
there has been new DNA or other physical evidence tying the suspect to the
crime. The problem, if you will, is that "old" evidence is sometimes not the
most reliable, depending on the type of evidence uncovered.

_______________________

Montgomery Village, Md.: When it comes to sentencing individuals for crimes, a
judge may consider mitigating and aggravating circumstances. Should the status
of being an illegal alien be an aggravating circumstance, because the illegal
immigrant should not have been in the United States to begin with?

Jonna Spilbor: We expect any person residing in the U.S. to be law abiding of
course, regardless of their immigration status. Typically however, when the
court applies either mitigating or aggravating factors to a criminal sentence,
it looks to the character of the perpetrator and the nature of the crime itself.
I believe this suspect will be charged with first (or perhaps second) degree
murder, and honestly, there really is no "nice" way to intentionally take a
person's life, so it is doubtful that mitigating factors will play a role if
Ingmar Guandique is ultimately convicted.

_______________________

Anonymous: Why is the suspect in the Levy case in jail in California for crimes
he was convicted of here in D.C.?

Jonna Spilbor: I don't have all the details yet of why the suspect is in a
California jail, but it could be that (1) he is serving time for a crime he
committed in California, or (2) he is being held in California pending
extradition to D.C.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: How is it that Ingmar Guandique is serving only a 10-year sentence
for the previous offenses? That seems much too lenient.

Jonna Spilbor: The reports I've read stated that Guandique "attacked" two other
women -- not that he killed them. This would explain why he is serving just a
ten-year sentence, and not something greater.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Do you know of any new evidence that may have been found? I.e.
her ring being discovered?

Jonna Spilbor: It was reported to me that part of the newly discovered evidence
consists of a "jail house confession" by a fellow inmate. From a defense point
of view, these types of "confessions" oftentimes are full of holes. For that
reason, it's likely the authorities have more to go on.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Have you had a chance to review the warrant? If he's convicted
on all charges, how much time would he be looking at?

Jonna Spilbor: I have not yet seen the arrest warrant.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va.: Ms. Spilbor, when this case re-surfaced in the news, it was
reported that evidence was obtained through a fellow prisoner. Do you know if
there is other evidence that was obtained to corroborate that information prior
to the arrest? Thanks.

Jonna Spilbor: As mentioned, if I had a crystal ball, my guess would be yes, the
police must have at least substantiated the fellow inmate's statements since
typically, these types of statements -- especially so far after the time of the
crime -- are not likely to hold up without more.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: How reliable would any DNA evidence be taken from any of
Levy's clothes found a year after her murder, if there was any, in implicating
Guandique?

Jonna Spilbor: DNA evidence would be great for the prosecution. The integrity of
DNA is usually far better than say the integrity of a person's memory eight
years after an event.

_______________________

Berkeley, Calif.: How do you anticipate the process for jury selection for this
case will be? It seems that it will be hard to choose a jury who is not familiar
with the details of the case.

Jonna Spilbor: This is the $64,000 question! We live in such an information age
(as you know) that it is almost impossible to find jurors who haven't heard of
high-profile cases. The way around that is to get assurance from the jurors that
they can put their biases aside and evaluate the evidence before them -- and
only the evidence before them -- fairly. Easier said than done, indeed, but many
times jurors will say they are up to the task.

_______________________

Oak Hill, Va.: Today's Post story says that Guandique was with two other men
when Levy was attacked -- do you know anything about that? Also, is there any
DNA evidence linking him to Levy?

Jonna Spilbor: The story is too new yet to know much about any alleged
accomplices, however, it wouldn't surprise me a bit that, if these accomplices
are real, we learn more very quickly FROM THE DEFENSE CAMP. If there are other
people at whom the suspect can point a finger, this type of evidence most likely
will surface sooner rather than later.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Does D.C. have the death penalty?

Jonna Spilbor: D.C. does not have the death penalty.

_______________________

Suspect is in jail in California because: ...he attacked women in Rock Creek
Park, on federal land, and is actually in a federal prison in California, not a
State of California prison.

Jonna Spilbor: Thanks for the additional info.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: The D.C. police and Ms. Levy's parents so wanted the killer to
be Gary Condit that they refused to look at the evidence that women had been
molested in the park before, and by the person they've now indicted. Was it the
Washington Post series that finally make them look to the real killer?

Jonna Spilbor: Focusing all police efforts early on in any investigation has
pros, and more often, cons. The obvious "cons" are that it can cause authorities
to overlook evidence that may point to the true perp.

_______________________

Jonna Spilbor: Thanks for the Q&A time. I'm sure we will hear much more in the
days and weeks to come. The hope, in the end, is justice for all. Thanks
everyone!

_______________________

Editor's Note: washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over
Discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts; guests
and hosts can decline to answer questions. washingtonpost.com is not responsible
for any content posted by third parties.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2009 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Advocates Reach Out To Obama;
Coalition Appears in D.C. To Press Agenda, Events

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 500 words


Dozens of immigrant advocates from across the country convened in Washington
yesterday to call on President-elect Barack Obama to halt work-site immigration
raids and fulfill campaign pledges to offer the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants in the United States a path to citizenship within his first year in
office.

Representatives of the Fair Immigration Reform Movement, a coalition of
grass-roots organizations from Los Angeles, New York and the Washington area,
also announced plans to mobilize tens of thousands of immigrants and their
supporters for a demonstration on the Mall on Jan. 21, the day after Obama's
inauguration.

"We voted in the millions, and now we're going to demand progress in the
millions," said Angelica Salas, director of one of the allied organizations, the
Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, at a news conference to
publicize the movement's efforts.

The last attempt by Congress to overhaul the immigration system foundered in
spring 2007 amid a storm of angry phone calls from constituents complaining that
the legalization component amounted to an unacceptable "amnesty" for
lawbreakers. And several members of the coalition acknowledged yesterday that
the tanking economy had further complicated their efforts.

However, they said they were also confident that the record participation of
Hispanic and immigrant voters in last week's elections would translate into
greater political clout.

Turnout among Latinos -- who tend to favor legalizing undocumented immigrants --
increased by 30 percent from the 2004 presidential race. Two-thirds of the
Latino vote went to Obama, compared with barely more than half for the 2004
Democratic nominee, Sen. John F. Kerry (Mass.). And Latinos proved particularly
helpful to Obama and other Democrats in the battleground states of Nevada, New
Mexico and Colorado.

"Historically, we've never had legislative progress on immigration during an
economic recession," said Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of another alliance
member, the New York Immigration Coalition. "On the other hand, we've never had
these kinds of numbers turn out at the polls. . . . The immigrant and Latino
vote has permanently established itself as part of the electoral calculus."

Although Hong and the other speakers said they did not expect Obama to tackle
immigration legislation within his first 100 days, they outlined several
executive decisions such as the moratorium on immigration raids that they hoped
he would take immediately. These included devoting more resources to clearing up
a backlog of visa applications, improving conditions at immigrant detention
facilities and suspending the Bush administration's recent decision to begin
mailing notices to 140,000 employers of workers with suspect Social Security
numbers, warning them that they have 90 days to resolve the discrepancies or
fire the workers.

"We need an end to these harsh tactics that don't work," Salas said. "Americans
have shown that they want practical solutions."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Alfredo Duarte Pereira -- El Tiempo Latino; "We voted in the
millions, and now we're going to demand progress in the millions," says Angelica
Salas of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 16, 2008 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

'Mixed-Status' Families Look to Obama

BYLINE: Kari Lydersen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 15


The people were of different nationalities and backgrounds, but they had a
common refrain: Don't split up our families.

The 300-plus people who attended the meeting Saturday at St. Pius Church in the
Pilsen neighborhood were sending a reminder to President-elect Barack Obama to
keep his promise to address immigration reform.

"I expect Barack Obama, our engine for change, will do everything he can to keep
his promise for comprehensive immigration reform that reunites families who are
already separated and keeps families together," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D),
who called the meeting and who in the next Congress will reintroduce immigration
legislation he co-sponsored last year.

Chicago, Obama's home, has in recent years been at the forefront of the battle
over immigration. The wave of massive marches for immigrant rights in 2006
started here, and Chicago groups -- including the grass-roots organization La
Familia Latina Unida -- have for several years taken the lead nationally on
"mixed-status" families.

The Aguirre and Pulido families that gathered in a Mexican restaurant after
sharing their stories at St. Pius are among the nearly 2 million families in the
United States with at least one undocumented parent and children who are U.S.
citizens. The families' stories, as well as those of others who filled out forms
documenting their hardships, will be put in a report and given to Obama.

Ana Pulido's husband came to the United States from Guadalajara, Mexico, at age
15. Ana is a U.S. citizen, and their three sons were born here. Pulido's
husband, 35, went to Mexico in 1998 when his father was on his deathbed. He
returned to the United States using his nephew's identity, was deported, then
returned illegally again. He has a pending deportation order and fears that
agents might show up at his home any day.

"I have two choices: divorce him or bring the whole family to Mexico," said
Pulido, 31, a real estate agent, who fears that her mother also might be
deported. "When you've been married to the same man for years, that's a hard
choice."

Her husband, who works as a carpenter and asked that his name not be used, said
he has no family or job prospects in Mexico. "My 15-year-old son said if I'm
deported, he'll quit school and get a job," he said.

Doris and Robert Aguirre also fear that their family will be split up. Doris
Aguirre, 43, who was born in Guatemala, entered the United States illegally with
her Honduran-born son, Bladimir. She married Robert Aguirre, a U.S. citizen, and
they have a U.S.-born daughter. She and Bladimir have deportation orders, and
she fears that she could be sent to Guatemala and her son to Honduras.

But she has faith in Obama: "We gave him our vote of confidence. Latinos voted
for Obama; now we're waiting for a response."

"President-elect Barack Obama is committed to reviving immigration reform. This
has been a priority throughout his career in public office and will continue to
be a priority in an Obama administration," spokeswoman Jen Psaki said.

A study by the Pew Hispanic Center found most undocumented immigrants are from
Mexico, but there were also citizens with European spouses at the Chicago
meeting.

Brian Wilkins, 31, is married to a Bulgarian woman, 26, who was ordered to leave
the country after her father's application for permanent residency was denied.
Wilkins, who met his wife while selling merchandise on a Britney Spears concert
tour, is selling his two suburban Chicago houses and moving to Bulgaria with his
wife Dec. 27, even though he doesn't speak the language.

Chicago has led the way in shedding light on such mixed-status families.

In August 2006, Elvira Arellano, the single mother of a U.S.-born son, defied a
deportation order and took refuge in a church on Chicago's west side for a year
until she was arrested after a speaking engagement in Los Angeles. She now lives
in Mexico with her son, Saul, 9, and continues to lobby for immigration reform.

Another Mexican immigrant with a 2006 deportation order, Flor Crisostomo, is
"taking sanctuary," as she and supporters say, in the same church.

Some advocates are worried that the administration will not make immigration a
priority because of the economic crisis and the controversial nature of the
debate.

But Joshua Hoyt, executive director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights, said the economy makes it imperative to address the situation.

"In a time of economic crisis, it's important to prevent unscrupulous employers
from pulling down wages by hiring undocumented workers," he said. "The
deportation-only strategy has the effect of destroying families, including the
families of many U.S. citizens. If you believe the family is the basic social
unit, then that sacred unit should be preserved, and it should not be an
ideological or partisan issue."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Americans, Europeans Share Immigration Worries

BYLINE: Pamela Constable; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 554 words


Americans and Europeans share deep concerns about immigration, with a large
percentage worrying that it can bring crime and displace workers, even though a
majority agree that it does not increase the risk of terrorism, according to an
opinion survey sponsored by the German Marshall Fund.

People on both sides of the Atlantic express sharply negative views of illegal
immigration, and roughly half of respondents said they think immigration in
general is "more of a problem" than an opportunity for their societies. The
European nations surveyed were the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Germany,
Poland and the Netherlands.

"Real anxiety about legal immigration exists, but it is dwarfed by concerns
about illegal immigration," the fund said in a statement yesterday. At least 80
percent of respondents in all surveyed countries called for stronger border
controls, and more than 73 percent in all the countries called for tougher
sanctions on those who hire illegal immigrants.

But there was a wide variety of opinion as to whether illegal immigrants who are
already in a country should be sent home or offered a path to legalization.
Americans slightly favored legalization over deportation, while in Europe an
average of 38 percent supported legalization programs. In all countries, only a
small percentage supported temporary immigrant work programs.

The report describes Americans' views of immigrants, who make up 13 percent of
the U.S. population, as a "paradox." It notes that although more than half of
Americans say that immigrants take away jobs from U.S. citizens, 86 percent view
them as hardworking and many also believe they create jobs by opening businesses
and investing.

Asked what criteria are most important for allowing foreigners to immigrate,
more than 90 percent of both Europeans and Americans said they must respect
their new country's laws and institutions, and a strong majority also said they
should speak their new country's national language. Most also said immigrants
should arrive with a job offer and a high level of education.

Although more than two-thirds of both Americans and Europeans said legal
immigrants should have full access to social benefits, including health care,
nearly one-quarter of Americans and people in the United Kingdom said they
"strongly oppose" granting them such benefits.

On the question of religion, 42 percent of Americans said immigrants should come
from a Christian country, while less than one-third of Europeans agreed. Asked
specifically about Muslims, 61 percent of Americans said Muslim immigrants have
much to offer culturally, yet only 54 percent said Western and Muslim ways of
life are reconcilable. In Europe, even fewer people -- 47 percent -- said the
two cultures could be compatible.

Another notable difference was that most Americans want their government to
manage immigration on its own, while most Europeans want their governments to
cooperate with poor countries where migrants are coming from and send them more
aid.

In snapshots of some European nations, the survey found Italy to be most worried
about illegal immigration but among the most welcoming to legal immigrants. The
Netherlands strongly favored allowing noncitizen immigrants to participate in
local elections. The United Kingdom was by far the most keen to deport its
illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 206 words

ALEXANDRIA

Indictment on Immigration Fraud

A Springfield lawyer was indicted yesterday on charges that he filed fraudulent
documents for illegal immigrants seeking permanent residence in the United
States, prosecutors said.

Michael M. Hadeed Jr. faces charges of immigration fraud, conspiracy and making
false statements to federal agencies in what prosecutors said was a scheme that
operated out of the King of Pita Bakery in Alexandria.

Prosecutors said the case is part of a large-scale immigration fraud
investigation.

Hadeed, whose law office is in Springfield, faces as much as 23 years in prison
if convicted.

-- Jerry Markon

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Woman Died of Smoke Inhalation

A woman found dead inside a Woodbridge townhouse destroyed by fire early Monday
has been identified, and the medical examiner has determined that she died of
smoke inhalation, police said yesterday.

Graciela L. Marandino, 31, was found inside the residence in the 15200 block of
Valley Stream Drive after authorities responded to a fire at 12:47 a.m.

Her husband, 36, was flown to a hospital with burns and has since been released,
police said.

The circumstances of the fire and of the woman's death are under investigation,
police said.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Immigration, Un-Wedged;
A Virginia panel opts for a reasonable approach to immigration.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 385 words


ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION does not seem to be the effective wedge issue in Virginia
that some politicians once hoped it would be. One percent of likely voters rated
immigration the most important issue in Virginia, according to a Washington Post
poll taken before this year's election; the share was nine times larger last
year. Rep. Virgil H. Goode Jr. (R), notoriously hostile to illegal immigrants,
lost to Democrat Tom Perriello in an upset in Virginia's 5th District, which
stretches from Danville to Charlottesville.

State lawmakers should take these results as a warning. Legislators squandered
energy and tax dollars by introducing an abundance of immigration bills during
their last session. Many of the bills were more punitive than constructive; few
were voted on, let alone approved.

Lawmakers in search of a pragmatic approach can find inspiration in the findings
of the Virginia Commission on Immigration. The commission, a coalition of state
leaders, studied immigration for more than a year. As The Post's Anita Kumar
reported, the commission will recommend in coming weeks that the state offer
more English classes, make it easier for immigrants to receive Medicaid benefits
and offer in-state college tuition rates to qualifying immigrants. Panel members
also rejected unreasonable proposals that have gained traction in the past, such
as requiring immigrants to carry special identification cards.

The panel's conclusions suggest a shifting attitude toward immigration, in
Virginia as nationwide. According to a recent statewide survey by the Mason
Project on Immigration and the Center for Social Science Research at George
Mason University, 44 percent of Virginians believe "unauthorized immigrants"
should be able to become citizens if they're employed, compared with 29 percent
who do not. And, as the Wall Street Journal reported, 10 of the 13 House
Republicans who were ousted in the Nov. 4 elections belonged to the Immigration
Reform Caucus, a group that fervently opposes citizenship for illegal
immigrants.

With the economic crisis dominating headlines, the incoming Obama administration
may postpone another attempt at immigration reform. But reform is as needed as
ever. Only the federal government can get the job done, and the political
climate may be more favorable than last time around.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Ex-Terror Suspect May Be Deported

BYLINE: Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 126 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Dec. 5


An immigration judge in Miami has signed off on the federal government's plan to
deport the only acquitted member of the "Liberty City Seven" to his native
Haiti.

Last year, a jury found Lyglenson Lemorin, 33, not guilty of taking part in a
terrorist plot to blow up Chicago's Sears Tower and the Miami FBI headquarters.

After reviewing much of the same evidence presented in criminal court,
immigration Judge Kenneth Hurewitz ruled that Lemorin, a legal permanent
resident, may be deported because he belonged to a homegrown terrorist cell and
pledged allegiance to a group he thought was al-Qaeda.

"A finding by a jury is not binding on this court in removal proceedings,"
Hurewitz wrote in his Nov. 20 ruling, released Friday by Lemorin's defense
lawyers.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Some Judges Delay Swearing-In Of New Citizens, Report Says;
Immigration Ombudsman Says Money Is Motivation

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 725 words


Federal judges in some parts of the United States have delayed the swearing-in
of new citizens, keeping millions of dollars in fees that would otherwise go to
immigration officials if they were allowed to administer the oaths instead,
according to a new government report and immigration officials.

In one of the nation's busiest courts, a judge's delay caused nearly 2,000
people to not receive the oath in time to register for November's general
election, USCIS ombudsman Michael Dougherty said in a 13-page report released
yesterday.

The finding adds a new twist to long-standing complaints that applicants for
citizenship face long waits, poor service and different treatment depending on
which immigration office handles their paperwork. While the USCIS has eased huge
backlogs created in summer 2007, with steps such as speeding up FBI security
background checks, the new bottleneck points to a turf battle with U.S. district
courts.

Although "federal courts are very responsive" generally to USCIS requests for
naturalization ceremonies, Dougherty reported, some "court officials denied
USCIS the opportunity to naturalize persons in time to vote in the recent
general elections" and "otherwise engaged in conduct inconsistent with the
letter or the spirit" of the nation's immigration laws.

In the most dramatic case, immigration officials asked a U.S. district judge in
the summer to schedule more ceremonies or allow the agency to administer the
oath itself to new citizens, but the request was denied, the report said.

A USCIS district director was told that the court had "done more than its share"
in swearing in new citizens, the report said.

Dougherty did not name the judge, saying only that the case arose in New York,
Los Angeles, Chicago or Detroit, four of the 41 U.S. court districts where
courts retain exclusive jurisdiction over naturalization cases.

"Courts that choose to assert exclusive authority to naturalize new citizens
should also embrace a customer service ethic that recognizes the singular
importance of oath ceremonies," Dougherty said in a news release issued by his
office's parent agency, the Department of Homeland Security. He said USCIS and
the courts should set clear rules to speed up the process.

Courts have 45 days after USCIS approves a citizenship application to administer
an oath of allegiance, and the agency reimburses them $14.09, out of fees paid
by the applicant, for each oath they perform. But the agency can often
administer the oaths more quickly and cheaply, saving the money for itself.

Still, USCIS officials "are very reliant on the cooperation of court officials"
to meet naturalization targets, and they complain about "a lack of parity" in
power, the report said.

Prakash Khatri, who was Dougherty's predecessor until February, said the
judiciary "has held USCIS hostage for a court fee that these jurisdictions are
not giving up," Khatri said. People wait for months after their naturalization
applications are approved, he said, "only to find that the delay is a direct
result of judges not scheduling naturalization ceremonies."

U.S. District Judge John R. Tunheim of Minneapolis, who chairs a federal
judiciary committee that oversees court administration, called the report's
conclusion "ludicrous" and said its examples are unsubstantiated and in some
cases "little more than rumor and innuendo."

"Certainly the courts will work very closely with USCIS, just as we have for
years," Tunheim said. He added that courts send immigration fees to a judiciary
general-fund account in Washington: "The idea that we're doing it for money
seems to me ludicrous. None of us can pay much attention to all these transfers
that go back and forth."

USCIS has made progress in clearing huge application backlogs. Since April, the
agency and the FBI have cut the backlog of immigration cases pending security
background checks from 275,000 to 60,000, with a goal by June of handling all
name checks against FBI records within 90 days.

After the number of naturalization applications nearly doubled in 2007, to 1.4
million, driving up average processing times to more than 13 months, USCIS
reported in the fall that the average time was back to 8.8 months.

By October, about 475,000 applications were pending more than nine months,
192,000 more than 18 months and 118,000 more than two years, Dougherty reported.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

State ACLU Is Reviewing Anti-Immigrant Policies, Laws;
Probe Seeks Details Of Local Initiatives

BYLINE: Aaron C. Davis; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 739 words


The American Civil Liberties Union of Maryland has launched a review of local
efforts to crack down on undocumented immigrants, saying a patchwork of
increasingly harsh policies might be violating some residents' rights.

In announcing the project, the group singled out two moves it is questioning: an
initiative by Frederick County officials to use local police to identify and
help deport illegal immigrants and an Anne Arundel County effort to crack down
on county contractors that employ illegal immigrants.

The civil rights group has set up an office to review the laws and to challenge
those it thinks have gone too far.

"We need to get a sense of how these laws are being enforced and then see how
they're impacting the immigrant community," said Ajmel Quereshi, the ACLU
attorney who will head the effort, called the Immigrants Rights Project. "If the
laws are hurting those communities, then we will review the constitutionality
and see if there are" grounds to challenge, he said.

ACLU chapters and immigrant rights groups in other states have begun similar
efforts, although many are not as organized as that in Maryland. Nationwide, the
ACLU says about 1,500 anti-immigrant ordinances were introduced by local
lawmakers last year, touching on topics including education, employment, housing
and voting.

Quereshi said that Maryland has avoided some of the more sweeping laws approved
in other states and that he hopes forcing discussion on such proposals before
they become law will cause legislators to think twice before supporting them.

"Maryland is not as grave as other states," he said, "but if we can spearhead an
effort to address these laws, it could provide a model for others in the
mid-Atlantic region."

Frederick Sheriff Chuck Jenkins was the first law enforcement official in
Maryland to sign a 287(g), an agreement local jurisdictions can make with the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement that provides training for police
and correctional officers to enforce immigration laws. ICE agents also are
placed in local detention centers to question and process detained immigrants
for deportation.

In the first six months of the agreement, about 9 percent of those arrested and
taken to Frederick detention centers were determined to be illegal immigrants,
Jenkins has said. More than 180 had been put on track for deportation, he said
in October. He added that the effort was helping to identify gang members and
people with criminal histories.

"I believe 90 percent of the people in this county support this," he said.

Anne Arundel police cooperation with ICE aided in a raid on a local painting
company to search for illegal immigrants. County officials have said the
collaboration between local law enforcement and federal authorities is a
valuable tool for enforcing immigration law.

Quereshi has begun the review by filing public records requests with all 23
Maryland counties and Baltimore City, seeking not only specifics on all
immigrant-related laws but also policies on how immigrants are treated in police
custody and documents that might show attempts by local lawmakers to target
immigrants. Among the information sought:

Â· Documents showing executive orders or internal policies regarding treatment
of immigrants -- legal or otherwise -- before, during or after their arrests.

Â· Policies on how social services or other benefits are provided or denied to
immigrants.

Â· Copies of communication between local lawmakers and ICE regarding enforcement
of federal immigration law.

Â· Policies on the sale or lease of residential property to documented or
undocumented immigrants.

Casa de Maryland, the state's largest Latino advocacy group, sued the Frederick
Sheriff's Office last month over what Casa said was the agency's refusal to
release some of the same public information. Casa requested a copy of the
agreement between the county and ICE in March. The group's suit alleges that the
county has given conflicting justifications for withholding the agreement even
as evidence has mounted that county police are engaging in racial profiling to
arrest illegal immigrants.

According to a Casa analysis of Frederick statistics, 217 of 221 people charged
with immigration violations in recent months have been from Latin America. Many
have been arrested for minor traffic violations, such as failure to properly
display license plates, the group contends.

Staff writer Pamela Constable contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 25, 2008 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Tackling the Citizenship Backlog;
Immigration authorities shorten the wait, but the line remains too long.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 443 words


A STRANGE thing can happen when government makes a concerted effort to tackle a
daunting problem: Real progress is sometimes made, as in the case of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and its backlogged citizenship
applications.

In 2007, the USCIS, an arm of the Department of Homeland Security, took an
average of 18 months to process a citizenship application. Today,  processing an
application takes nine or 10 months, thanks in large part to a dramatic hiring
spurt at the agency last year. USCIS brought on 2,058 new employees, of whom
1,600 were assigned to evaluate applications. According to a new report from the
USCIS ombudsman, the agency completed roughly 1.1 million applications this year
-- 422,000 more than last year. Of those applications, 1.05 million were
approved.

This is a significant improvement, but there is still much to do. The ombudsman
noted that some 118,000 citizenship applications have been pending for more than
two years; an additional 192,000 have yet to be completed, even though they were
filed more than 18 months ago; roughly 475,000 applications have been pending
for more than nine months. In 2007, then-USCIS Director Emilio T. Gonzalez
promised to reduce the processing time to five months. The agency should be held
to that pledge.

USCIS should also improve coordination with the federal courts to cut down on
delays in swearing in approved applicants. USCIS may swear in new citizens, but
generally only if the federal court with jurisdiction relinquishes its exclusive
right to do so for the first 45 days after an application has been approved.
Exceptions are made for those who need to be sworn in immediately, such as
military service members destined for overseas assignments. But the process
sometimes breaks down. The ombudsman reports that 1,900 approved applicants were
denied the chance to vote in the 2008 elections because the federal district
court in their area did not move quickly enough to swear them in. The
ombudsman's report did not identify the court in question, and the DHS
separately declined to provide specifics. Although a ceremonial swearing-in by a
judge often adds a level of grandeur and gravitas appropriate to the moment, the
focus must be on administering oaths in a timely manner.

In the long run, Congress should appropriate money for USCIS rather than force
it to be funded through filing fees paid by applicants. The incoming Obama
administration should rethink the huge fee increases imposed by USCIS last year;
in some cases they rose sevenfold. While these increases helped fund this year's
hiring, they also placed enormous financial burdens on applicants.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Montgomery Police Seek Tougher Line On Immigrant Status;
Detainees' Residency Would Be Checked In Cases Involving Weapons, Violence

BYLINE: Dan Morse; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1024 words


Montgomery County police are seeking approval to ask suspects arrested for
violent crimes and weapons offenses about their immigration status, an
about-face in a county whose leaders for years declined to do so even as police
agencies elsewhere in the region began aggressive efforts to identify illegal
immigrants.

The proposal, developed by Chief J. Thomas Manger and his senior staff, comes
after two alleged illegal immigrants were charged in the fatal shooting of a
14-year-old honor student on a county transit bus and after another alleged
illegal immigrant was charged in a string of home invasions and the slaying of a
63-year-old Bethesda resident in her home.

"All public officials have been receiving questions from citizens who are
asking, 'Why are persons who are in the country illegally or unlawfully allowed
to remain?' " said Wayne M. Jerman, an assistant police chief.

Jerman said the policy is not ideologically driven. Rather, he said, police
officials see immigration violations as another tool to get dangerous criminals
off the streets.

The proposal will not go into effect without the approval of County Executive
Isiah Leggett, who once angrily told a crowd that the county is "not in the
business of enforcing immigration issues." Through a spokesman, Leggett declined
to comment. It is unclear when he will make a decision.

Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery) said she and other immigrant advocates
have met with Leggett to convey their opposition to the policy change. She said
it could lead to racial profiling and constitutional violations.

"What we are saying is: 'Hold it. You may be going down a slippery, slippery
slope,' " she said.

From the opposite perspective, the proposal was also criticized yesterday by
Brad Botwin, director of Help Save Maryland, a group that advocates stronger
local enforcement of immigration laws. Botwin said he thinks police should
inquire about immigration status whenever they detain someone for any reason.

The proposal is "not sufficient," he said.  "Any time they touch law
enforcement, we'd like to know who these people are."

The proposal is being refined, but under a current version, it would kick in
when a suspect is arrested in connection with a weapons offense or a violent
crime, such as murder, armed robbery, kidnapping, first-degree child abuse, rape
or various sex crimes. Jerman said that if the arresting officer thought the
suspect was in the country unlawfully, the officer could inquire about
immigration status and would be required to refer the matter to federal
immigration officials.

As of yesterday, eight of 16 people held in the county jail on murder charges
had immigration detainers placed on them, meaning federal authorities might move
to deport them after their criminal cases have run their course. Such suspects
are not necessarily in the country illegally.

Authorities have said that at least two of the suspects are illegal immigrants
whose status went undetected during previous arrests in the county: Gilmar L.
Romero and Hector M. Hernandez, alleged gang members charged with first-degree
murder in the Nov. 1 shooting death of 14-year-old Tai Lam.

Romero, 20, was arrested in June on a weapons charge after police said he walked
down University Boulevard East in Silver Spring in the middle of the day with a
machete stuffed in his waistband. Hernandez, also 20, was arrested in October in
connection with possessing a switchblade and threatening a student at Northwood
High School.

"Obviously, there are some things that have alarmed a lot of people," said
State's Attorney John McCarthy, referring to the Lam killing, the arrest of Jose
Juan Garcia-Perlera in connection with the slaying of Bethesda resident Mary
Havenstein and other recent incidents.

McCarthy said he supports the proposal. "I think that helps public safety," he
said.

The change would signal a major shift in Montgomery, which hasn't altered its
procedures even as jurisdictions in Virginia and neighboring Frederick County
have moved to crack down on illegal immigration.

As a matter of policy, under an agreement with federal immigration officials,
detainees at the jail in Frederick are asked where they were born and whether
they are U.S. citizens, which can trigger a series of immigration-related
questions. Those suspected of being illegal immigrants are held while federal
officials are notified.

Prince William County drew national attention in 2007 by proposing that officers
check the immigration status of those detained, even for such minor infractions
as speeding, if they thought the detainees might be in the country illegally.
The county backed off that approach, requiring that officers check status under
more limited circumstances. Last year, Virginia enacted a law requiring jail
officials in every jurisdiction to notify federal authorities of all
foreign-born inmates, regardless of their immigration status.

Law enforcement officials in Montgomery acknowledge that any change in
immigration policy is fraught with challenges. They have spent years trying to
cultivate the trust of immigration communities when it comes to victims of
crimes and witnesses to crimes, promising that their status will not be
questioned. It also would not be questioned under the proposed policy, McCarthy
and police officials said.

"I still need them to come forward," McCarthy  said. "We're tying to take a
balanced, measured, approach."

But actions taken in recent years by county police have upset some in the Latino
community. As a matter of practice, when Montgomery police officers detain
someone or make a roadside stop, they typically check to see whether any agency
has warrants for the person's arrest. If immigration officials have filed to
have the person detained, the person is held for 48 hours to give them a chance
to take custody.

In neighboring Prince George's County, police take a less aggressive approach on
detainers. Officers are governed by a 2003 County Council resolution directing
them to "refrain from enforcing immigration matters that are the responsibility
of the [U.S.] Department of Homeland Security," said Maj. Andrew Ellis, a police
spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Susan Biddle -- The Washington Post; Montgomery Police Chief
J. Thomas Manger is suggesting a reversal in the county's approach.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Pr. William's Mothers of Dissension;
Stay-at-Home Moms Add Politics to Duties

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1147 words


The months-long battle over Prince William County's crackdown on illegal
immigration has largely subsided, but not before giving rise to a potent new
force in local politics: stay-at-home moms.

About a dozen mothers who banded together to battle the county's hard-line
position on immigration are now among the area's most civically engaged
residents. They attend board meetings and influence votes. They have created an
active blog and are serving on county advisory boards and commissions.

And they do much of it with children in tow. Alanna Almeda's girls practice
gymnastics in the hall while she listens to county supervisors debate. Elena
Schlossberg testifies with her 3-year-old, Rachel, on her hip, and her
6-year-old, Eli, hanging onto her leg.

The women say they provided a tempered, alternative voice when emotions on
illegal immigration ran hot. Now they want that approach to permeate other
debates on topics that interest them, such as preserving more land in the face
of development.

"I wouldn't call myself a leader," said Schlossberg, 40, of Haymarket. "But in a
crowd of people, I was never afraid to make my voice heard, even if I stood
alone. You don't have to be an expert. You just have to be able to say, 'That
doesn't sound right.' "

Almeda and Schlossberg were the first of their group to get involved. The two
crossed paths in spring 2006 when Almeda joined efforts to conserve 230 acres of
county park land. The women reconnected later that year to fight Dominion
Virginia Power's plan to build a 65-mile high-voltage power line through rural
Northern Virginia.

When the illegal immigration battle started to flare, Almeda knew right away
that she wanted her voice to be heard. Her husband, Rosendo, gained permanent
residency in 1996, four years after they got married.

"It was as if they were saying he wasn't making a contribution or worthy of
being here," she said of the county's foray into illegal immigration. "It was
like saying it was a mistake to allow him to gain legal status and it would be a
mistake to do it for this new group."

But she was surprised when she saw Schlossberg at a July board meeting, where
proposed immigration laws were on the agenda. "We're probably not going to be on
the same side on this one," Almeda, 39, of Gainesville, said at first. "Don't be
so sure," Schlossberg replied.

Katherine M. Gotthardt joined the fray, too. Last summer, Gotthardt's daughters
were on the swings, singing a rhyme they had heard on the playground: "I don't
want to go to Mexico no more. . . . There's a big, fat guy at the door. . . . If
you open it up, he'll [urinate] on the floor. . . . I don't want to go to Mexico
no more."

She admonished her daughters. A few weeks later, she heard that immigrant
parents were afraid to send their children to school for fear they would be
deported.

"It was clear the culture the county created was affecting the kids," said
Gotthardt, 39, an educator with a background in English for Speakers of Other
Languages. That's when she decided to address the Board of County Supervisors.
As an English composition teacher, Gotthardt's expertise is crafting a message.
Schlossberg's knack is organizing and identifying elected officials who might be
sympathetic to their cause. Almeda, a programmer for the U.S. Department of
Transportation until she had her youngest, brings technical know-how.

More mothers introduced themselves, home numbers were exchanged and eventually
the women were talking daily. Almeda learned how to make conference calls so
they could discuss strategy.

A real expansion came when the women took their battle to the blogosphere,
becoming key voices on the "open dialogue" Web site called Anti-Black Velvet
Bruce Li. The site was formed in response to a longer-running conservative blog,
Black Velvet Bruce Li by Greg Letiecq.

Letiecq said he is still waiting for the mothers to present a clear vision.

"They've gotten engaged, that's for sure," he said. "They loudly complain about
people they don't agree with. Outside of that, they haven't presented a positive
solution that will help preserve the community."

The mothers' opinions have enlivened an already vigorous local blog scene.
Letiecq's blog gets an average of 1,500 hits a day. Theirs gets 1,300.

The women have also tried to be a presence at the county's weekly board meetings
at 2 p.m., a time of day that lends itself to the involvement of stay-at-home
moms.

"What they have is flexibility in their schedule," said Supervisor Martin E.
Nohe (R-Coles), who supports the women's efforts although they don't always
agree.

He should know. His wife, Kris, a stay-at-home mom and court-appointed special
advocate for children, serves on a county panel that will craft the county's
human services policy.

Kris, 33, says she's fighting a perception that when women become mothers they
fade into the background.

"Just because I have children doesn't mean I'm leaving the community, even if
I'm not a member of the workforce," she said. "Because I'm a mom, I'm drawn to
do things that enrich the community."

As a political force, the women have become more aggressive. In September,
Schlossberg and Almeda rallied residents against the appointment of Robert L.
Duecaster, a provocative critic of illegal immigration, to the human-services
panel.

They didn't win that debate. But they did force supervisors to explain their
votes publicly.

The women claimed a victory earlier in the year when they took advantage of
fissures on the board and persuaded moderate supervisors to adjust the county's
immigration policy. In April, the board told police officers that they may
question criminal suspects about their immigration status only after they have
been arrested.

During the board's month-long debate over the budget, Almeda sometimes made two
90-minute round trips a day to catch the exchanges. That meant fast-food dinners
for the kids and late-night snacks from the vending machine. Esperanza, 7, and
Claudia, 10, practiced gymnastics routines in the board's lobby.

"It can be all-consuming if you let it," she said of maintaining an activist's
lifestyle. "There have been times when it has been."

Her husband, who often works 12-hour days laying fiber-optic cable for an
electrical contractor, said he is too busy to follow the details of Prince
William's politics. He said he wishes Alanna had more balance between family and
politics.

"I think she went too crazy," said Rosendo, 41.

Illegal immigration drew many of the moms into the political scene, said
Supervisor W.S. Covington III (R-Brentsville). But they are increasingly
weighing in on other issues.

"They have broadened their response," he said. "They have a stronger, more
educated voice because they are branching out."

Although the women initially planned to create a formal organization to
accompany their blog, they decided to stay loosely structured, just in case life
gets in the way.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; Elena Schlossberg,
left, and Alanna Almeda discovered at a Board of Supervisors meeting that they
were similarly opposed to Prince William County's policies on illegal
immigration. Their activism drew other stay-at-home mothers, who have built an
informal political coalition.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 8, 2009 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

'Painful' Cuts Are Ahead for County;
A Tax Break Is Coming, Stewart Says

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW03

LENGTH: 619 words


Prince William is grappling with the toughest economic challenge it has ever
faced and plans to respond with "deep and often painful" spending cuts, Board of
County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart said Tuesday in his annual state of
the county address.

By slashing the budget, the board will be able to deliver a tax cut to
residents, he said.

"The board believes it is unacceptable to raise your taxes and further burden
you," said Stewart (R-At Large). "To meet this challenge, we will tighten our
belt, just as you at home are tightening yours. You at home can not tax your way
out of fiscal hardship, and neither can we."

Like other fast-growing counties and cities across the United States, Prince
William has been hit by the steep decline in home values. It faces the most
dramatic decrease, a 30 percent drop, among jurisdictions in the region.

Other area localities are considering tax increases to close their anticipated
shortfalls. Prince William continues to pave its own way, Stewart said.

In last year's state of the county address, Stewart focused on illegal
immigration enforcement. On Tuesday, he briefly mentioned that the county's
policy has led to the deportation of more than 1,300 undocumented immigrants who
allegedly committed crimes in the county.

The illegal immigration initiative was the most divisive policy decision the
board faced last year, leading to months of acrimonious meetings. This year,
Stewart pledged to foster a spirit of collegiality.

"Although the board has had its differences in the past, I feel we are united in
addressing the challenges we face," Stewart said of the $190 million gap the
board must close in the upcoming budget year.

"We will put away partisanship, judgments and hard feelings, and we will meet
these challenges head-on."

Also on Tuesday, the board tapped Supervisor W.S. "Wally" Covington III
(R-Brentsville) to serve as its vice chairman. He replaced John T. Stirrup Jr.
(R-Gainesville). The position, which is largely ceremonial, rotates each year.

In other business, the board heard recommendations from the strategic plan task
forces on human services and economic development/transportation.

Prince William's strategic plan will guide policy and budget decisions for the
next four years. The task forces, which include public safety and education, are
charged with "composing the community outcomes and strategies" for each goal.

The human services panel estimated that it would cost $22 million to achieve its
desired outcomes, almost $8 million more than budgeted. Most of the suggestions
would require more money, such as providing additional housing options for the
homeless, people with disabilities, the elderly and low-income residents.

Supervisors exhibited signs of sticker shock and asked that some of the goals be
set aside until the county has more money. County Executive Craig S. Gerhart
reiterated that there is no money for new initiatives.

"Funds are extremely limited. We are in a reduction mode, not an increase mode,"
he said. "I don't think we can escape the fact that money is going to be
unbelievably scarce."

The economic development/transportation group projected that it would cost $304
million to achieve its objectives, $271 million more than budgeted.

It recommends increasing capital investments to attract non-retail businesses.
It also wants the county to add 4,400 new jobs.

The panel suggested the county make Route 1, University Boulevard and the Prince
William Parkway its priority construction projects and pursue federal, state and
private funding to complete $198 million in road bond projects.

Supervisors will hear the public safety panel's suggestions next week. The board
is scheduled to adopt the plan in March.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 12, 2009 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Bush Tells His Party To Be 'Open-Minded';
President Pushes Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Perry Bacon Jr.; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 485 words


President Bush called for a "compassionate" Republican Party and warned against
the GOP becoming "anti-immigrant" in one of his last interviews as president,
defending his vision of the party, which has become unpopular among some
Republicans.

"It's very important for our party not to narrow its focus, not to become so
inward-looking that we drive people away from a philosophy that is compassionate
and decent," the president said in an interview on "Fox News Sunday" that was
aired yesterday. "We shouldn't have litmus tests as to whether or not you can be
a Republican. And we should be open-minded about big issues like immigration
reform, because if we're viewed as anti-somebody -- in other words, if the party
is viewed as anti-immigrant -- then another fellow may say, 'Well, if they're
against the immigrant, they may be against me.' "

Bush, when asked about how the GOP could avoid the kind of losses it suffered in
the 2008 election -- it lost the presidency and several seats in the House and
Senate -- said, "I think that we shouldn't change our philosophy." But he added:
"We may want to change our message. . . . We need a new group of leaders."

He declined to name any of the leaders except his brother Jeb, who has decided
against running for a Senate seat in Florida in 2010 despite encouragement from
the president.

Some of the Bush administration's efforts, such as expanding the federal
government's role in education through the No Child Left Behind Act and
proposing an easier path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, have come under
fire from some Republicans. But, in the interview, Bush used the phrase that
marked his 2000 campaign, saying, "We've got to be compassionate conservatives."

The president, joined for part of the interview by his father, former president
George H.W. Bush, said he would take up to four years to write a book about his
presidency. He said the book would explore his decision-making on some of the
key issues of his eight-year tenure.

The two men, who have almost never been interviewed together during the younger
Bush's time in the White House, defended each other's presidencies. The
president said his father was "almost too humble to be president."

"He's going to be judged great, too," Bush said of his father. "When history
finally gets objective, they will be able to say a lot of positive things about
George Bush."

The elder Bush said he viewed his son's tenure "very positively."

Even as President-elect Barack Obama spoke out in an interview on ABC's "This
Week" that aired yesterday against an interrogation technique known as
waterboarding, President Bush called his administration's policies legal and
necessary. He said he would be concerned if Obama abandoned the techniques.

"Obviously, I feel like it would be a problem," Bush said, "because these are
tools that we have in place. I do want to -- you know, I firmly reject the word
'torture.' "

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: A-SECTION

LENGTH: 386 words


Key senator has questions on US Treasury nominee-WSJ

BC-USA-OBAMA/GEITHNER (UPDATE 1)

Key senator has questions on US Treasury nominee-WSJ

(Updates with details of report, comment from Sen. Hatch)

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top Republican on the U.S. Senate Finance Committee
is "raising questions" about the immigration status of a housekeeper that worked
for U.S. Treasury Secretary nominee Timothy Geithner, the Wall Street Journal
reported on Tuesday.

The newspaper report also said there were questions about years in which
Geithner allegedly did not pay Social Security and Medicare taxes for himself.

Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa "is raising questions about a housekeeper that
worked briefly for Treasury Secretary-nominee Timothy Geithner without proper
immigration papers, and multiple years when Mr. Geithner didn't pay Social
Security and Medicare taxes for himself."

A spokeswoman for Grassley said she could not comment on the report but said
members of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Geithner's
nomination, were meeting to discuss the matter.

The Journal said that according to people familiar with the matter, Geithner
employed a housekeeper whose immigration papers expired while she worked for
him. She later received a green card to work legally in the United States and
immigration authorities did not press charges, the paper said in a report on its
website.

The paper said Grassley was also raising questions about Geithner's alleged
failure to pay Social Security and Medicare taxes when he worked at the
International Monetary Fund between 2001 and 2004. It said at the time Geithner
was technically considered self-employed and would have been required to pay the
taxes as both an employer and employee.

As soon as the Internal Revenue Service brought the issue to his attention, he
paid the taxes with interest, the paper said, citing sources.

Asked whether the issues raised by Grassley might jeopardize support for
Geithner, president of the New York Federal Reserve who must be approved by the
Senate to take the Treasury post, Sen. Orrin Hatch, a senior Republican on the
finance committee, said: "Not as far as I am concerned."

"He is a competent, good guy," Hatch told Reuters.

(Reporting by Patrick Rucker and Mark Felsenthal; Editing by Kenneth Barry)

Reut15:49 01-13-09

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Recession Unlikely to Drive Away Illegal Immigrants, Report Finds

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 771 words


Although the U.S. economy's nosedive has probably contributed to a substantial
drop in the number of illegal immigrants coming into the United States, those
already here will be less motivated to return home, according to a report
released yesterday.

Among other reasons, the report cited illegal immigrants' family and job ties to
this country, the difficulty they would face trying to reenter the United States
after its economy improves, the comparatively weaker state of their countries'
economies and the strengthening U.S. dollar.

The study by the nonpartisan, Washington-based Migration Policy Institute also
noted that an analysis of previous recessions suggests that unless the current
one is extremely prolonged, the rate of legal immigration to the United States
will be largely unaffected.

"The immigration system of the United States makes people wait in line for years
to get their visa," study co-author Demetrios G. Papademetriou said. "So, by the
time it becomes available for a family member or a valued employee, people tend
to jump at the opportunity. They don't want to return to the back of the line."

The more likely, and worrisome, possible effect of the recession on illegal
immigrants, Papademetriou said, is that it will drive them to accept
ever-lower-paying jobs under ever-worsening conditions.

"We have to be careful about what people desperate for a job may do," he said.
"This begins to affect the labor standards and wages of not just the immigrants,
but the people who work with them. This has very important social and economic
consequences for the country. . . . If we're not careful, we could have
situations that are unanticipated and that we haven't seen in this country for a
while."

The report synthesized recent statistical analyses and global, historical data
to offer a picture of the potential effects of the current crisis on different
categories of migrants.

A growing body of evidence from the U.S. Census Bureau and independent
researchers suggests that after a decade of massive growth, the total size of
the illegal immigrant population in the United States abruptly leveled off over
the past year, to just under 12 million. The only other period in the past
decade when the illegal immigrant population did not rise precipitously was
during the 2001 recession, suggesting that in both cases, the declining economy
was an important factor.

Less clear is what portion of the sudden slowdown is because of a drop-off in
new illegal arrivals as opposed to departures, deaths or changes to legal status
among those already here. (The Census Bureau does not ask people their
immigration status, so researchers must use various methods to estimate the size
of the illegal immigrant population).

An October study by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center estimated that the
annual number of illegal immigrants coming into the United States plummeted from
about 800,000 a year during the first half of the decade to about 500,000 a year
during the second half. Similarly, the Migration Policy Institute study noted
that a survey by Mexico's official statistics agency found the rate of migration
from Mexico to the United States each spring has slowed from 14.6 people per
1,000 residents in 2006 to 8.4 per 1,000 residents last year. Another study
cited in the report found that since 2001, the number of illegal immigrants
apprehended along the Southern border has risen and fallen in tandem with the
employment rate, which measures the demand for labor.

Some analysts have speculated that illegal immigrants might also begin leaving
in significant numbers because of the combination of stepped-up enforcement by
federal and local authorities and the recession's disproportionate impact on
illegal immigrants, who are more likely to work in the most affected industries.
However, despite some anecdotal reports, Papademetriou and co-author Aaron
Terrazas could find no statistical evidence of a recent increase in the number
of immigrants, illegal or otherwise, returning to Mexico, which sends the
largest share of immigrants, or other sending nations, since the start of the
recession in December 2007.

The report noted that the International Monetary Fund expects economic growth in
Mexico to slow from 4.9 percent in 2006 to 1.8 percent this year, greatly
reducing the incentive of illegal Mexican immigrants to return. Similarly, the
Mexican peso has lost 22 percent of its value against the dollar between Dec. 1,
2007, and Dec. 1, 2008, which has greatly increased the value of the dollars
Mexican immigrants in the United States send home, even if they are unable to
earn as many of them.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Rwandan Professor Arrested in Visa Offense

BYLINE: Elissa Silverman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 277 words


A Goucher College professor accused of genocide in his native Rwanda has been
arrested on suspicion of being in the United States illegally, U.S. immigration
authorities said yesterday.

Leopold Munyakazi, who taught French at the college north of Baltimore, was
arrested Tuesday at his home for overstaying his visa, said U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement spokesman Brandon A. Montgomery. He was later released from
custody with a monitoring device and is awaiting a deportation hearing,
Montgomery said.

Goucher removed Munyakazi from his teaching duties several weeks after learning
of accusations by the Rwandan government that he participated in the 1994
genocide in the Central African nation. In a Jan. 31 campuswide e-mail, Goucher
President Sanford J. Ungar said he had heard about the accusations from an NBC
news producer working on a series about international war criminals living in
the United States. Ungar said the producer was accompanied by a Rwandan
prosecutor who shared with him a detailed indictment calling for Munyakazi's
arrest, but he said the college's action didn't reflect "a judgment about Dr.
Munyakazi or about the charges that have been made." The college is
investigating the claims.

Munyakazi has denied involvement in the genocide.

In 1994, more than 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed in
Rwanda in highly organized violence that included the systematic rape of Tutsi
women.

Reached by telephone last night, Munyakazi said his lawyer advised him not to
speak about his case.

Munyakazi was to teach at Goucher under a program that provides fellowships for
academics who are threatened in their home countries.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Pr. William Business Owners Protest;
Licensees Must Show Legal Status

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 699 words


Small-business owners are calling on Prince William County lawmakers to rescind
a controversial immigration measure that has required company owners to prove
they are living in the country legally.

About 4,000 small-business owners recently received notices about the new
requirement telling them they have until March 1 to provide proof that they are
legal residents in order to get their business licenses renewed.

"It serves zero purpose," said John Gray, a resident and accountant who has
operated his firm in Prince William for 21 years and is leading the opposition.
"Practically, it doesn't make any sense. Not one illegal immigrant is going to
be discovered by this process."

Supervisors included the requirement as part of a dramatic shift in immigration
policy that won unanimous approval in October 2007 -- a policy that included
provisions ordering police to check the immigration status of people they
arrested and cutting off certain services to the homeless, elderly or addicted
who could not document their legal status.

The licensing requirement has met resistance from doctors, architects,
contractors and others who said they object to standing in line for hours with a
birth certificate or passport to prove their legal status. Although some members
of the Board of County Supervisors have expressed sympathetic support for the
business owners, no supervisor has proposed a formal revision to the immigration
legislation.

"If they rescind this, it makes them look like they are softening the policy,"
Gray said.

Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) said revisiting the illegal immigration
policy to address this issue would only serve as a diversion.

"Our policy is in place. Most of the community seems to be happy with it," he
said. "I don't think anyone is going to have the stomach to reopen this right in
the middle of a tough budget cycle."

Supporters of the provision point to an opinion from Attorney General Robert F.
McDonnell that says revenue commissioners should verify the legal status of
business license applicants. His opinion, which is not technically binding, was
in response to a 2006 request from the revenue commissioner in Campbell County.
Almost all counties essentially ignored McDonnell's recommendation, including
Fairfax and Loudoun.

"Most tax officials in the commonwealth have reviewed the opinion and do not
abide by it," said Robert S. Wertz Jr., Loudoun County's revenue commissioner.
"It's an opinion, right? There's no requirement by the code of Virginia to tell
tax officials they should be doing it."

Manassas, a city adjacent to Prince William, is a rare exception. It also
requires business owners to prove their residency.

All Prince William businesses grossing more than $100,000 in sales are required
to obtain business licenses. Representatives of corporations, however, are not
required to provide legal proof, because they are considered legal entities
where they are incorporated, created or registered, according to the county.

Business owners have to prove legal presence, in person, only once. After that,
it can be done by mail. If applicants can't prove legal status, their business
licenses will be denied.

Implementing the requirement will cost the county about $80,000.

Supervisor Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles), a small-business owner who expressed
reservations about the business license requirement last year, said it could put
Prince William at a competitive disadvantage because people in other counties
can apply for their certification online or by mail.

"Anything that makes it harder to do business or adds an additional burden to
small-business owners is fundamentally unfair," he said.

Prince William's ordinance went into effect July 1. The county issued 286
licenses last year. In January, it issued 148 licenses.

Mark Klein, another accountant whose clients are upset about the new law, said
the policy strikes him as anti-business and is inconsistent with the county's
objective to promote economic growth.

"It seems like they are outside their scope of authority in this particular
matter," he said. "Legal presence is a matter for the federal government. It's
not local government's job to pursue this through a revenue measure."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Chairman Corey A. Stewart (R-At Large) says, "Our policy is in
place."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Maryland Briefing

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 503 words

MONTGOMERY COUNTY

Lawyer Is Convicted of Fabricating Asylum Files

A Silver Spring lawyer was convicted in federal court yesterday on charges of
fabricating asylum applications for immigrants trying to stay in the United
States.

Patrick G. Tzeuton, 42, who is from Cameroon and worked with many people from
West Africa, signed off on clients' fraudulent paperwork and coached them to lie
during interviews with immigration lawyers, prosecutors said.

During a four-week trial in U.S. District Court in Greenbelt, prosecutors
alleged that Tzeuton carried out the scheme from 2002 to 2005.

Tzeuton was taken into custody after the jury's verdict and is scheduled to be
sentenced April 29 by Judge Peter J. Messitte. Tzeuton faces a maximum sentence
of five years in prison for conspiracy, 10 years for immigration fraud and 20
years for obstruction of official proceedings.

-- Henri E. Cauvin

Police Seek Help in Identifying Homicide Victim

Police are asking for the public's help in identifying a man whose body was
found on an Interstate 270 ramp near Germantown last week.

A motorist told police about the body on the Father Hurley Boulevard exit to the
southbound lanes of the highway last Thursday. Preliminary autopsy results found
the cause of death to be homicide; the manner of death was a gunshot wound.

Police say the victim was Hispanic and in his late 30s or early 40s, 6 feet tall
and  260 pounds, with short, dark hair. A plastic laundry tag with the name
Carlos Quintero handwritten on it was found attached to the man's jeans.

-- Associated Press

O'Malley Backs Turnbull to Lead Md. Democrats

Gov. Martin O'Malley told Democratic Party activists yesterday that he is
nominating Susie Turnbull of Montgomery County as the next chairman of the state
party.

Turnbull, a former chairman of the Montgomery Democratic Party, more recently
served as vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee. O'Malley (D) said
in an e-mail to activists that he will nominate her  next Thursday at the
meeting of the executive committee of the state party.

"Susie is a friend and colleague of many of you and will bring her successful
experience as a political organizer and fundraiser to the Maryland Democratic
Party," O'Malley wrote.

Turnbull would succeed Michael Cryor, a longtime O'Malley associate who stepped
down as chairman last month.

-- John Wagner

ST. MARY'S COUNTY

Remains Might Be Missing Man's, Officials Say

Detectives in St. Mary's County think that human remains found Tuesday in
Lexington Park are those of a local man reported missing more than two years
ago, authorities said yesterday.

The 2006 disappearance of the man, Mark Tippett, is being investigated as a
homicide. Forensic examiners continued to excavate the remains from a wooded
area near Cedar Cove yesterday.

The medical examiner had not identified the remains or ruled on a cause of
death. Tippett was 44 when his wife reported him missing from their Lexington
Park home, about a quarter of a mile from where the body was found.

-- Matt Zapotosky

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 14, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Ex-Immigration Official Sentenced to 71/2 Years;
Man Accepted Bribes From Venezuelan Firm

BYLINE: Jerry Markon; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 462 words


A former immigration supervisor was sentenced to more than seven years in prison
yesterday for accepting kickbacks from a Venezuelan company that provided
armor-plated vehicles for U.S. officials in South America.

Gerardo Chavez, 46, pocketed $172,000 from the scheme and planned to receive
$87,000 more before federal agents uncovered it, prosecutors said. Chavez, 46,
is a former deputy assistant director of international operations at U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Chavez steered about $2.8 million in contracts for the four-wheel-drive vehicles
to Caracas-based Blindajes Del Caribe, known as Blincar, according to court
records. The company's owner then funneled money back to Chavez, who used it to
purchase land in California and a 2006 Hummer and to finance $43,000 in
renovations to his Clifton home, the documents said. About 45 of the armored
vehicles were later found to be defective and were replaced at a cost of more
than $5 million.

Chavez was sentenced in U.S. District Court in Alexandria to 90 months in prison
after pleading guilty in November to accepting bribes in exchange for official
acts and conspiracy to commit wire fraud and money laundering. His lawyer,
Marvin Miller, said the veteran immigration agent is "a really dedicated guy who
made a really dumb choice and put himself in a bad situation by his own
conduct." He said Chavez spent four days being interviewed by federal agents
when they searched his home. "He feels terrible about it."

Cori Bassett, an ICE spokeswoman, said the agency "respects the court's
decision" and cooperated in the investigation. "As public servants, every
employee at ICE is held to the highest standard of professional integrity," said
Bassett, who added that ICE had made several changes to "strengthen oversight"
as a result of the case. She would not specify them.

Chavez, who had worked for ICE and its predecessor agency, the U.S. Customs
Service, for more than 20 years, was administratively suspended in August 2007
when ICE learned of the investigation. His lawyer said Chavez subsequently
resigned.

Court documents said the investigation began in October 2006 when FBI and
Department of Homeland Security officials reviewed a memo from a former ICE
official. It alleged that Chavez had inappropriate relationships with several
Venezuelan businessmen, accepting flights on their private jets and vacationing
with them. Chavez worked in Caracas as an immigration supervisor from 2000 to
2005.

In 2006, court documents said, Chavez e-mailed Blincar's president to say he was
arranging a visit to the Blincar factory by an ICE official to persuade her to
buy armor-plated vehicles. "If we convince the lady, then you can count on a
contract for ten more cars," he wrote, according to the documents.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 15, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

'Crime-Victim Visa' Law Has Aided Few Illegal Immigrants Since 2000

BYLINE: Amy Taxin; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A 2000 federal law promised visas to illegal immigrants who were crime victims
if they came out of the shadows to help police catch their attackers. More than
13,000 people took the government's offer, but so far only 65 -- 0.5 percent --
have gotten their reward.

The figures, provided by the U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, outrage immigrant advocates. They say the problem with the "crime
victim visa" has been twofold: The government took years to come up with rules,
and now that they're in place many law enforcement agencies are reluctant to
provide the required written support so victims can apply.

"There's no rational reason why it should take the federal government eight
years to implement a law other than there's a callous disregard for the rights
of crime victims Congress intended to benefit for cooperating with law
enforcement," said Peter Schey, executive director of the Center for Human
Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles.

Lawmakers created the visa to encourage illegal immigrants to report crimes such
as rape, torture and domestic violence without fear of deportation, and to help
law enforcement crack down on violent crime.

It took until 2007 for the agency to set the rules, although immigrants could
apply before then and could stay in the United States if their cases appeared to
fit the criteria.

The number of visas is capped at 10,000 a year. According to the most recent
statistics, only 85 had even been processed by the end of 2008 -- 65 were
approved and 20 denied.

Although the visa application is free, the government requires many illegal
immigrants to apply for a waiver that costs $545, more than some victims could
afford. Under criticism, the government changed the rules in December to waive
the fee on a case-by-case basis.

Citizenship and Immigration Services spokeswoman Chris Rhatigan said the
government is moving to address the problems, increasing staffing to more
quickly review visa applications and meeting with local law enforcement
officials to teach them about the program.

"We're trying to do the right thing," Rhatigan said.

The law allowed any police officer, prosecutor or judge to sign off on a
victim's application as long as the victim cooperated with law enforcement or
was deemed likely to do so.

But CIS's rules stipulate that only senior law enforcement officials can endorse
a visa application. That has prompted a number of police and prosecuting
agencies to craft their own policies on who should qualify.

Immigrant advocates say getting the requisite support from law enforcement has
become highly political, with police and prosecutors in different cities and
counties taking disparate positions.

"If you're a crime victim who is cooperating, the law shouldn't be different for
you if you are in St. Louis or you are in New York," said Julie Dinnerstein,
co-director of a program for immigrants at New York's Sanctuary for Families.

Sometimes law enforcement officials in the same city don't view the issue the
same way.

Privilege Kudina, a Zimbabwean living in New Orleans, said she stayed with an
abusive husband for nine years because she was a dependent on his student visa
and feared she would be thrown out of the country if they separated. She finally
left him last year, taking their two young daughters to a shelter for victims.

Kudina said she obtained a restraining order and testified in court but no one
in the police department or prosecutor's office would sign off on her visa
application. Eventually, she said the judge who heard the case agreed to help
her.

"Everybody was passing the buck," said Kudina, 30, who is waiting to hear
whether her visa was approved. "I went to any law enforcement agency to try to
get it signed, and everybody would find an excuse why their office was not the
one to sign it."

Still, Kudina has fared better than others. Chapman University law professor
Marisa Cianciarulo, who oversees a free clinic at an Anaheim, Calif., center for
domestic violence victims, said city authorities have denied a third of her
requests for certification since January 2007.

The Orange County district attorney's office -- just seven miles away in Santa
Ana -- received 90 requests between December 2007 and November 2008 and denied
only five, said Ted Burnett, assistant district attorney for family protection.

"We're not making any decision on whether the person gets it or not. That's all
up to the feds," Burnett said. "When they send one to me, [I ask]: 'Is it a
qualifying crime, a serious enough injury and did they cooperate?' -- and if
they did all those things, then I sign it."

In Colorado, Weld County prosecutor Ken Buck said his office has received eight
requests to support visa applications and denied them all because the victims
came forward after their cases were closed.

"I don't think the intent of it is to help someone who has been a victim of
crime 10 years ago. I think the intent of it is to help law enforcement
prosecute cases," said Buck, a strong supporter of tougher immigration
enforcement.

Some immigrant advocates say police and prosecutors are using the rules to avoid
getting involved in the contentious issue of illegal immigration.

In Ohio, attorney Adolf Olivas said police agencies have supported victims in
some Cincinnati suburbs but not others.

"What we have found is basically that everyone talks a good fight -- everyone
says, 'Yes, we know this is a great tool for community policing,' " said Olivas,
senior attorney at the Legal Aid Society of Southwest Ohio. "But when it comes
time to sign on the dotted line, they are less than eager."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Conflicting Accounts of an ICE Raid in Md.;
Officers Portray Detention of 24 Latinos Differently in Internal Probe and in
Court

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2111 words


The boss was not happy. His elite team of immigration officers had been raiding
targets across Prince George's and Montgomery counties all night long in search
of fugitive and criminal immigrants but had netted only a handful.

As the unit regrouped in its Baltimore office that frigid January morning two
years ago, the supervisor warned members that they were well behind a
Washington-mandated annual quota of 1,000 arrests per team and ordered them back
out to boost their tally.

"I don't care where you get more arrests, we need more numbers," he said,
according to one account in a summary of an internal investigation. The boss
then added that the agents could go to any street corner and find a group of
illegal immigrants, according to the summary, not previously made public.

About an hour later, the nine-person team went to a nearby 7-Eleven and arrested
24 Latino men. But most of the detainees were hardly the threats to the United
States that the team was designed to focus on.

The officers were part of a special unit that U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) launched in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to hunt
suspected terrorists or dangerous criminals who are "fugitive aliens," meaning
they have evaded a deportation order. And although many of the 24 Latinos
detained at the 7-Eleven were found to have been in the country illegally, 14
were not fugitive immigrants. One, Ernesto Guillen, was merely stopping for
coffee on his way to join his wife at Johns Hopkins Hospital, where their
4-year-old son was undergoing chemotherapy for leukemia.

The Jan. 23, 2007, incident, described in ICE documents and shown in security
camera footage obtained by The Washington Post, offers a glimpse into how
Washington's directives on arrest targets might have spurred officers in the
field to stray from their mission and stage a random sweep for illegal
immigrants, possibly in violation of ICE's stated practice.

Even as ICE's National Fugitive Operations Program has garnered more than $625
million from Congress since its launch in 2003, critics have long suspected that
Washington's practice of setting goals for apprehensions has led teams to bring
in tens of thousands of immigrants who have not evaded a deportation order or
committed a crime -- as opposed to being in the country unlawfully, which is a
civil violation.

Recently, researchers from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York and
the Migration Policy Institute in Washington released a report revealing a
dramatic leap in arrests of immigrants who were neither fugitives nor criminals
in 2006 and 2007 after officers were permitted to count non-fugitives toward
their goal if such detainees were encountered in the course of an operation.

When a reporter contacted ICE for this article, spokeswoman Kelly A. Nantel
disclosed that as of Feb. 4, ICE leadership had altered the annual goal of 1,000
arrests for each team. Instead, each team must now identify and target -- though
not necessarily arrest -- 50 fugitives each month, as well as 500 a year as part
of operations with other teams.

Nantel cited new statistics showing that in the 2008 fiscal year, the share of
non-fugitive arrests by the teams dropped -- from 40 percent to 24 percent of
arrests nationwide and to 6 percent of those made by the Baltimore team.
Meanwhile, the new secretary of homeland security, Janet Napolitano, has
requested a review of fugitive operations.

Yet the aftermath of the 7-Eleven incident points to potential difficulties in
changing ICE's institutional culture.

The initial account given by the agency, and supported in sworn declarations
later made by some of the officers involved, was that the team had stopped at
the 7-Eleven for a break when a group of Latino men approached, looking for day
labor work. The officers said the men, when asked, voluntarily admitted to being
in the country illegally, thus providing lawful grounds for their arrest.

But some of the officers and their colleagues later gave ICE investigators a
different account. They described how, after their supervisor had instructed
them to boost arrest numbers by arresting non-fugitives if necessary, they had
stopped at the 7-Eleven for the express purpose of checking it for illegal
immigrants. Moreover, security camera footage appears to show that at least
eight of the Latino men arrested had no previous visible contact with the
officers before they were detained.

The agency's internal probe -- launched at the request of Sen. Barbara A.
Mikulski (D-Md.) -- was limited to the question of whether the officers had
engaged in improper racial profiling and concluded on Oct. 9, 2007, that they
had not. ICE has continued to stand by the initial declarations provided by its
officers, submitting them in the detainee's deportation appeals as recently as
Jan. 14.

Shortly after The Post contacted ICE about the incident, spokeswoman Nantel said
Acting Assistant Secretary John P. Torres immediately asked the Department of
Homeland Security's inspector general to investigate whether the officers'
statements were inconsistent. The inspector general has not formally received
the request. Nantel said Torres did not seek a further probe into the actions of
the team's bosses.

"There's no conclusion in [the internal investigation report] that would
indicate whether or not the supervisor gave any direction that they should go
out and conduct random arrests," Nantel said. "There are accounts that say he
did, and accounts that say he didn't."

Justin Cox, an attorney with

CASA of Maryland, an immigrant rights group representing some of the detained
men in both a civil claim and in immigration court, said ICE's response has been
inadequate.

"Changing the arrest quotas alone is not going to make ICE more transparent or
accountable," Cox said. "The officer on the street really has to be completely
on board with the mission of the agency, because they have so much discretion to
do whatever they want in situations where no one will ever really find out what
happened." Only the security cameras and the discovery of ICE's internal
documents, he said, made this situation different.

* * *

By all accounts, John D. Alderman, then the acting field office director of
ICE's Baltimore Office of Detention and Removal Operations, was dissatisfied
upon the team's return from its night of fugitive hunting.

According to the investigation's summary, deportation officer Sean C. Ervin said
Alderman told him that headquarters in Washington was "unhappy with Baltimore's
results." He then "instructed [Ervin] to go out and get more aliens, that he as
an experienced officer knew where potential illegal aliens tended to gather, and
gave examples such as Home Depot or Lowe's parking lots."

Ervin told investigators that he sought out his immediate superior, Raymond R.
Smith, "to tell him that he was uncomfortable with [the] orders." Smith told
investigators that when he tried to intercede, Alderman "related that he didn't
really care where they had to go and whether the aliens were fugitives or not,
he just wanted them to bring more bodies in."

(All ICE officers mentioned by name in this article declined to be interviewed
or did not respond to messages left at their office and mobile phone numbers.)

According to the summary, in his interview with ICE investigators, Alderman said
he told team members that "they were well behind in their quota of 1,000
apprehensions per team" and pointed out that the recent change in ICE policy
allowed them to count non-fugitive arrests toward the target. But Alderman said
he "did not direct anyone to the 7-Eleven store or any other site as a means to
obtain quick fugitive apprehensions." Nonetheless, about an hour later, that's
where the team ended up.

* * *

The lead vehicle, driven by Ervin, pulled into the parking lot first. Several
officers told investigators that, as one put it, someone on the team suggested
they "check the 7-Eleven parking lot for potential targets." Others, including
Smith, who was also in the lead vehicle, said it was simply a convenient place
to wait for the rest.

The store's security videos show that within three minutes of the lead car's
arrival, the rest of the detention officers had arrived and corralled 20 of the
men they would ultimately load onto the vans. Four more were later picked up on
the street, out of sight of the cameras.

The video appears to show that at least three of the men detained were among a
group that initially raced toward the lead vehicle and spoke with the officers,
but at least eight  had no visible contact with the officers before their
detention.

In his declaration for the immigration court, Ervin said, "I believed that I had
seen two individuals from the initial group that approached my vehicle get into
the passenger seat of a brown pick-up truck." According to Ervin, he walked to
the truck and asked the men if they were in the country illegally. When one said
he was, Ervin said, he ordered both of them out.

But the video confirms that the two men ordered out of the pickup were not part
of the group that approached Ervin's vehicle. One of the men, Jose del Transito,
said in a phone interview from El Salvador that he and a friend had been offered
a job and were waiting outside the store for their employer to emerge when the
ICE vehicles arrived. The video shows del Transito and the other man entering
the pickup with their employer, only to be ordered out by Ervin seconds later.

Similarly, deportation officer Kenneth B. Giove told both the immigration court
and ICE investigators that as the roundup began, "I noticed two of the men, who
had been in the group surrounding [Ervin's] vehicle, turn away and enter the
[7-Eleven] store," in the words of his court declaration. Giove said he went in
after them and "determined who was to be removed from the store by their
clothing and the fact that they were hiding behind the coffee pot," according to
the investigation summary.

The video, however, shows that only one man appears to have entered the store at
that point. The other two men at the coffee counter were Ernesto Guillen and a
second man of Latino appearance, who, like Guillen, appears to have had no
interaction with agents. The video then shows Giove direct all three men
outside.

In a recent interview, Guillen recalled his mounting desperation as he tried to
explain to Giove that he needed to get to his son at the hospital. "My boy was
so weak and he was so scared of all the injections. I needed to be there," he
recalled.

Cox and Michelle Mendez, his co-counsel at CASA of Maryland, said the events
call into question whether the officers overstepped their authority. Although
law enforcement officers can question anyone who speaks to them voluntarily, Cox
and Mendez said, they cannot legally detain someone without reasonable
suspicion.

Nantel, the ICE spokeswoman, said: "These officers were reacting to a situation
that was unfolding in front of them. . . . We have the luxury to go back in time
and look at it in slow motion. They don't."

The CASA of Maryland lawyers argued that ICE's investigation summary contradicts
the initial testimony of some of the officers that they sought to arrest only
those who had freely admitted to them that they were in the country illegally.

For instance, Ervin told ICE investigators that when he asked some of the men in
the original group about their status, the men only "looked down at the ground,
or away and mumbled or said nothing." Several of the detainees also filed
affidavits swearing they did not voluntarily admit to being illegal immigrants.

* * *

After three fretful nights in jail, Guillen, who declined to discuss his
immigration status on the advice of lawyers, was granted supervised humanitarian
release by ICE. Lawyers said another man was released after 18 days because he
proved he was in the country legally, while three others continue to fight their
cases in immigration court. The other 19 were either deported or permitted to
take "voluntary departure." Del Transito is one of them. However, he and two of
the detainees still in the United States have filed claims seeking $500,000 each
in damages from ICE. The agency has six months to reply.

Alderman and most of the officers involved in the 7-Eleven action are still
employed by ICE. According to the investigation summary, Ervin told ICE
investigators that although he did not believe the team had violated any laws,
"he believed that the fugitive operations team was not appropriately used. . . .
[Ervin] believed strongly in the Fugitive Operations mission, and felt from the
start that the orders given to the team were outside their operational mandate."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE; By Susan Biddle For The Washington Post; Ernesto Guillen, one of those
detained at a Baltimore 7-Eleven, talks with staff lawyer Liza Zamd at CASA of
Maryland.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 19, 2009 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

More Illegal Immigrants Turned In;
U.S.-Trained Unit In Sheriff's Office

BYLINE: Jonathan Mummolo; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. PW11

LENGTH: 687 words


The number of illegal immigrants turned over to federal authorities by the
Loudoun County Sheriff's Office went up sharply last year with the addition of a
small team of federally trained sheriff's deputies, according to figures
released this week.

The sheriff's office transferred 135 such cases to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement last year, compared with 83 cases in 2007, an increase of 63
percent, sheriff's spokesman Kraig Troxell said.

In the summer, three sheriff's investigators in the gang intelligence unit
completed training under the federal 287(g) program, which gives local law
enforcement officers access to a federal database to check the residency status
of criminal suspects they arrest. Other Loudoun sheriff's deputies, as in the
past, have called ICE when they think a suspect might be in the country
illegally so that ICE can run the status check, Troxell said.

Of the 135 people turned over to ICE last year, about 30 were the result of
investigations by the three trained deputies, he said.

"With the 287(g) program, it enables us to skip a step and get the ball rolling
ourselves," Troxell said.

Loudoun is one of several localities in the region that participates in the
program. Others include Prince William County and Manassas. But unlike Prince
William authorities, who check the residency status of every person arrested,
the Loudoun Sheriff's Office runs checks that are more selective.

Of the people they come in contact with during criminal investigations, Loudoun
sheriff's deputies will check the residency status of those who provide "reason
to believe" they are in the country illegally, Sheriff Stephen O. Simpson said.
Such indications could include providing false identification, giving a false
name or not having a driver's license when pulled over for a traffic infraction,
Troxell said, adding that a person does not have to be arrested for a check to
be performed.

In a recent incident, a man was identified as an illegal resident after being
pulled over for speeding in Sterling on Feb. 11, Troxell said. He could not
produce a driver's license, instead handing over a passport that said he was
from El Salvador. Further investigation showed that he was wanted by ICE on an
unrelated matter, and he is being held locally on an ICE detainer, Troxell said.

Kent Willis, executive director of ACLU of Virginia, which has raised concerns
over Loudoun's program in the past, said policies that call for selective checks
of suspects' residency status are "recipes for profiling."

"It's that very process of selectivity that creates all kinds of problems,"
Willis said.

He said that local authorities using that approach might be more inclined to
check the residency status of a person of color, or of someone who doesn't speak
English. Willis said he opposes local enforcement of immigration policy, viewing
it as a federal responsibility, but prefers Prince William's universal checks to
Loudoun's system.

Simpson said he would like to be able to check the residency status of everyone
who passes through the Adult Detention Center. But that is not feasible right
now because the jail staff in Loudoun is not certified under the 287(g) program,
he said.

He defended his agency's approach, saying the sheriff's office hasn't received
any complaints of racial profiling, and added that everyone in the department
undergoes "cultural diversity training."

Simpson said the federal training of the three sheriff's investigators has paid
dividends.

"I do think it has been a useful tool," Simpson said.

When illegal residents are identified by the Loudoun sheriff's office, they
first serve out time on whatever local charge they were arrested for. They are
then transferred to federal authorities, who ultimately determine whether to
deport them.

Before agreeing to participate in the federal program, Simpson had raised
concerns that the county's jail would become overcrowded as inmates awaited
transfer to federal facilities. But Simpson said that crowding has not been an
issue, and that inmates with ICE detainers have been picked up by federal
authorities within days of serving their local time.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 26, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

O'Malley Backs Tougher Driver's License Law;
Md. Motorists Would Have to Prove They Are in the Country Legally

BYLINE: Lisa Rein; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 798 words


Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley backed legislation yesterday that would require
drivers to prove that they are in the country legally to get a license, setting
up a major clash with immigrant advocates who are pushing to preserve the
state's policy of allowing undocumented immigrants to drive.

Maryland is one of only four states -- and the only one on the Eastern seaboard
-- that does not check the immigration status of its drivers. Thousands of men
and women who are not legal residents, many living in the Washington suburbs,
use legal licenses as they drive to their jobs, pick up their children from
school and buy groceries.

O'Malley and others who favor changing the policy to comply with federal law say
illegal immigrants come to Maryland from as far away as North Carolina to seek
licenses, overburdening the motor vehicle agency and in many cases getting
fraudulent documents through the system.

The license debate has simmered in Annapolis since passage of the 2005 federal
security law known as Real ID, which calls for a system of standardized licenses
designed to enhance security. Opposition to the program's cost has prompted open
revolt in many states. In Maryland, the law also cast a spotlight on immigration
policy.

"The lawful presence is something every state is going to be required to have,"
O'Malley said yesterday.

At a hearing, the House Judiciary Committee debated a legal-presence bill and a
competing one, also with broad support, that would allow undocumented immigrants
to continue to drive but offer legal residents a separate identification card
that would allow its holders to board commercial planes and enter federal
buildings. Both would comply with the Real ID requirement.

The governor's position has evolved in fits and starts, with no shortage of
debate within his administration. O'Malley, the great-grandson of Irish
immigrants, who has hung a sign over his desk that says "Help Wanted: No Irish
Need Apply," is sensitive to Maryland's growing population of immigrants, aides
say.

His transportation secretary set a plan in motion last year to develop a
two-tier system, but the governor publicly rejected it. Montgomery and Prince
George's county lawmakers with large immigrant constituencies have lobbied the
governor in the past two months to keep the current policy. But he apparently
was not convinced that it made sense, given his concerns that Maryland is
becoming a magnet for license-seekers.

The legal presence measure that O'Malley now supports has long been pushed by
Republicans and conservative Democrats in the legislature.

Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller Jr. (D-Calvert) said he is confident that
his chamber will side with the governor. "Because of the threat of terrorists
who look upon the United States as the enemy, we have to be more vigilant with
driver's licenses," Miller said, referring to some of the Sept. 11, 2001,
hijackers, who used driver's licenses as identification when they checked in for
their flights.

Transportation officials told the Judiciary Committee that Maryland should
require a legal presence to protect its license system against growing fraud.
Efforts to fight it "have not been enough to keep pace with the ever-improving
quality of document fraud and growing criminal enterprises" that allow
out-of-state illegal immigrants to get licenses, Motor Vehicle Administrator
John Kuo said.

He described how 68 applicants to the agency's license program for foreigners
gave the same Baltimore address to motor vehicle workers and how others used the
addresses of FedEx and UPS stores. Other applicants paid someone $2,000 a week
to keep a Maryland address for them until they got their licenses, Kuo said.

But advocates and some lawmakers said that denying licenses to thousands of
drivers who now have them would push them to get on the road without a license
or insurance. Kim Propeack of CASA of Maryland, the state's largest immigrant
advocacy group, said unlicensed drivers are far more likely to be in fatal car
crashes.

"Don't you want people to obey our traffic laws?" asked Del. Victor R. Ramirez
(D-Prince George's). "Why in the world are we telling folks who are trying to be
good Americans not to do so?"

Transportation Secretary John D. Porcari acknowledged the risks of unlicensed
driving but said they exist today. He said the two-tier proposals would be
overly costly and complicated.

States have until 2010 to begin complying with Real ID, although they can get
extensions if they have laws requiring legal presence. When Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano was governor of Arizona, she criticized the law for
the costs it imposes on states. But aides to O'Malley said Napolitano told him
that the Obama administration does not plan to make changes to the
lawful-presence requirement.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 1, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Town's Residents Say Border Barrier Has Little Effect;
Some Report More Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Christopher Sherman; Associated Press

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: GRANJENO, Tex.


When the government announced plans to build a new fence along portions of the
Mexican border, residents of this sleepy town along the Rio Grande feared the
barrier would cut them off from their back yards and even destroy some homes.

Nearly two years later, the project is almost finished, and the village of
Granjeno has managed to hang on -- as have the illegal immigrants who still pour
through town by climbing over or walking around the nearly two-mile barricade
designed to keep them out.

Instead of building a steel fence, the government agreed to turn an existing
earthen levee into a stronger concrete one, which was supposed to both keep out
illegal traffic and offer the village improved flood protection. The levee is
now taller, with a sheer 18-foot drop on the side that faces Mexico.

"The wall is going to help us in the future for a big flood. We're not against
that," said Daniel Garza, 76, a lifelong resident. "But border security it ain't
going to help. It's getting worse."

This village of 330 people was founded on Spanish land grants in 1767, and most
residents are descended from three families who survived the Spanish, the
Mexicans and the short-lived Republic of Texas to become Americans. They live in
modest frame houses and often take walks down toward the Rio Grande in the
evenings.

In 2007, the Department of Homeland Security planned to build a double- or
triple-layer fence as much as two miles from the river on the U.S. side of the
Rio Grande. Residents feared that their community would wither if it were
divided by the fence.

The original plan would have restricted access to the river and to valuable
farmland. Parts of the fence would have run straight through existing houses or
back yards.

By using the levee as a barrier, the government eliminated the need to take any
private property. Now the $20 million concrete barrier is nearly done. The
houses have been saved, and families still have river access.

But most residents say the barrier has done little to stop immigrant traffic.
Some people have reported large groups of illegal immigrants simply running
around the ends of the levee or climbing over the top.

Garza, who lives at the eastern end of the barrier, said he's seeing more
traffic than ever.

Before construction began, Garza would see a couple of people run by his house
at a time. Now they move in groups of as many as 50, he said.

"Up here you don't just see a few. You see bunches."

Built across the Southwest, the fence does not cover the entire border. Rather,
it is made up of segments with large open spaces between. When planning where to
build the segments, the government targeted places such as Granjeno, where an
illegal immigrant emerging from the Rio Grande could blend into the population.

The goal was to force immigrants into open areas where Border Patrol agents
could more easily intercept them.

"It has diverted smugglers to the east and the west," said Dan Doty, a spokesman
for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency. "We have seen a shift in
where alien traffic goes."

Doty said immigrants used to take a path that led them right through the middle
of Granjeno.

"They're no longer able to do that," he said.

But, he said, the number of people apprehended has not increased.

Gloria Garza, Daniel Garza's niece, said she's seeing more immigrants at her
home, which is not especially close to either end of the wall.

About a month ago, she said, a young woman stopped at her home to ask for help.
She told Garza she had sprained her ankle coming over the wall.

Garza told her she could have just walked around it. "So I guess it's not
helping any," she said.

Other residents near the center of the barrier report a decline in foot traffic.

"During the day, people would just run through here, and at night it was
constant barking," Idolina Guzman said, glancing at her dog. "I don't see it as
much anymore."

Granjeno's only business, Cabrera's Bar, has seen a booming business from the
wall, serving beer to construction workers.

Mary Garza, who used to work in a Border Patrol office, said a more effective
solution would be to hire more Border Patrol agents.

Of the wall, she said: "It's not helping at all. It's only costing."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Residents of Granjeno, Tex., say the reinforced concrete is
likely to stop no one, because illegal immigrants can simply walk around the
ends of it.
IMAGE; Photos By Eric Gay -- Asspociated Press; Instead of building a fence that
would have divided Granjeno, the government turned an earthen levee into an
18-foot-tall concrete barrier.
IMAGE; Lifelong Granjeno resident Daniel Garza says the enlarged levee will
protect against flooding but not much else.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration Program Stirs Clash Of Views;
Frederick, Montgomery Chiefs Testify to Congress

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 532 words


Two suburban Maryland law enforcement chiefs testifying before Congress
yesterday gave dramatically different assessments of a controversial federal
program that deputizes local officers to enforce immigration law.

Montgomery County Police Chief J. Thomas Manger warned members of the House
Committee on Homeland Security that the program could severely undermine trust
between police and immigrant communities.

"Public safety increases when people have trust and confidence in local police
forces," Manger said. "The bottom line is local law enforcement needs to work
closely with our immigration authorities, but we cannot do their job for them."

But Sheriff Chuck Jenkins of Frederick County characterized his force's
participation in the program as "an overwhelming success."

Known as 287(g) for the section of immigration law that authorizes it, the
program has garnered more than $114 million in funds since its launch four years
ago and has trained 951 officers in 67 state and local agencies on how to
determine a person's immigration status.

Jenkins said the four weeks of training provided to 52 of his county's sheriff
employees and corrections officers last year had enabled them to identify 337
illegal immigrants -- 309 of whom were put into removal proceedings by
immigration authorities.

Jenkins told the panel that nine of those arrested were members of the
"notoriously violent gangs MS-13 and 18th Street" and that others were picked up
for such crimes as attempted second-degree murder, second-degree rape, armed
robbery, first-degree assault, child abuse and burglary.

"I would urge every law enforcement executive . . . to request participation" in
the program, Jenkins said. He added that doing so was essential to combating
"the enormous increase in crime throughout the United States . . . which can be
tied directly to the unchecked flow of illegal immigrants through our southern
border with Mexico." Later, he added, "We are dying on American soil, and there
is a role for enforcement of immigration laws by local law enforcement."

Although some lawmakers on the panel praised Jenkins, others noted that a
Government Accountability Office report released yesterday found that the
government had failed to provide sufficient oversight to ensure its state and
local partners were focusing on the dangerous criminals the program was intended
to target rather than those guilty of minor violations.

Advocates for CASA of Maryland, an immigrant rights group that recently obtained
information on 85 percent of the illegal immigrants identified by Frederick
officials, contend that more than half were stopped for driving without a
license and that only 20 were charged with felonies.

Lawmakers did not ask Jenkins for a breakdown of the severity of offenses in his
most recent arrest figures. However, they did press him about the profit the
county makes on room and board fees while holding illegal immigrants awaiting
pickup by immigration authorities. Jenkins answered that though the actual cost
to the county is only $7 per day, the county charges the federal government $83
per day to house illegal immigrants arrested for offenses that would otherwise
warrant their release.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 15, 2009 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

South of the Border, Popular Ballads About the Perils of Illegal Immigration
Have a Surprising Heritage: Made in -- and by -- the United States of America;
South of the Border, Popular Ballads About the Perils of Illegal Immigration
Have a Surprising Heritage: Made in -- and by -- the United States of America

BYLINE: Ashley Surdin; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1494 words


To  its arsenal of agents, fences and stealthy sensors skirting our nation's
southern border, the U.S. Border Patrol may soon add another weapon in the fight
against illegal immigration: a follow-up album.

Yes, as in CD. With singers, guitars. Accordions.

In what may be among the lesser-known deterrents exercised by our nation's
security forces, the Border Patrol is deploying up-tempo Mexican folk songs
about tragic border crossings to dissuade would-be illegal immigrants. The
agency has paid -- how much, it won't say -- a D.C.-based advertising company to
write, record and distribute an album, "Migra Corridos," to radio stations in
Mexico. Its title, its makers say, is intended to mean "songs of the immigrant"
but "migras" is commonly understood as a code word for Border Patrol in much of
Mexico.

The first CD of five songs was recorded in 2006 and distributed over the past
two years.  Another CD in the works is scheduled to be ready by May. There are
also tentative plans for a collection of similarly themed songs with styles of
music more geared toward would-be illegal immigrants from Central America.

Many of the stations in Mexico that play the songs and the listeners who request
them are seemingly oblivious to who is behind the bouncy ballads of death,
dashed dreams and futile attempts at manhood.

Before you cross the border, remember that you can be just as much a man by
chickening out and staying

Because it's better to keep your life than ending up dead.

-- "Veinte AÃ±os" ("20 Years")

"It's pretty slick," says Jason Ciliberti, a spokesman with the Border Patrol in
Washington.

The music is part of the Border Safety Initiative, the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection's push to squash smuggling and increase safety along the border. As
part of that effort, the Border Patrol launched "No Mas Cruces en la Frontera,"
a campaign aimed at educating communities with many potential illegal immigrants
about the dangers of crossing.

Illegal immigrants can encounter severe hazards on their journey: professional
smugglers and bandits who beat, rob, rape and abandon them; bitingly cold or
scorching temperatures; snakes, scorpions; drowning; and death by dehydration or
exhaustion.

"No Mas Cruces en la Frontera" (which means both "no more crossings on the
border" and "no more crosses on the border") has primarily relied on newspaper,
television and billboard ads. In one poster, men walk in a line, with some of
their shadows showing as crosses rather than bodies. In another, someone has
collapsed in a seemingly endless desert. "Before crossing to the other side,"
the poster advises, "remember that the burial plots are full of the valiant and
the macho."

The most recent twist on the media blitz is "Migra Corridos," a brainchild of
ElevaciÃ³n, a D.C.-based advertising boutique with 20 or so employees that
specializes in Hispanic market advertising -- producing jingles, television
spots and billboards. ElevaciÃ³n, which had already been working on the border
campaign, sold the Border Patrol on the idea of songs-as-deterrents.

The five-song album draws on corridos, popular Mexican narrative ballads with
roots  in Spain's Middle Ages. Reenergized in recent decades by such popular
Mexican groups as Los Tigres del Norte, the genre reverberates deeply with
Mexican and Mexican American communities, says Martha I. Chew Sanchez, the
author of "Corridos in Migrant Memory" and an associate professor at St.
Lawrence University in New York.

The songs, Sanchez says, humanize the experiences of those communities with
tales of love, death, migration, globalization and social and political events.
More recently, there has been an explosion in the popularity of narcocorridos --
ballads that recount the drug traders, their violent exploits and, often, their
deaths.

Among the perils mentioned on "Migra Corridos": a cousin who dies from
dehydration, a mother who is raped and beaten by a child-killing smuggler, one
man's suffocation in an airtight tractor-trailer.

He put me in a trailer

There I shared my sorrows

With 40 illegals

They never told me

That this was a trip to hell.

-- "El Respeto" ("Respect")

Whatever the subject, the songs can strike a chord with listeners, as long as
they tell a compelling narrative, Sanchez says. "If it's a good story, the
people will like it. And no matter what generation, they will listen to it,
dance to it."

"Migra Corridos" lives up to its dance-inducing predecessors, despite its somber
stories. The music is peppy, even cheerful. Drums tippity-tap along with piping
accordions and strumming guitars.

The songs were distributed to six Mexican states, where, according to
ElevaciÃ³n's research,  many migrants left for the border: Zacatecas,
MichoacÃ¡n, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Jalisco and Chiapas. ElevaciÃ³n contacted
stations and asked them to play the songs as part of  the border initiative.

"When we approached the Mexican media, we approach it as a humanitarian
campaign," says Pablo Izquierdo, vice president of ElevaciÃ³n. "We didn't tell
them who was behind it because consumer research indicated that it wasn't going
to be as well-received."

But, Izquierdo says, there's nothing fake about the songs. "There is no
commercial message. It's all heartfelt, and it's all from the point of view of
the people."

After some hours

Abelardo opened his eyes

And in the middle of the cold night

Discovered his dead cousin at his side.

-- "El MÃ¡s Grande Enemigo"

("The Biggest Enemy")

Izquierdo says that feedback from the stations was positive and that even though
the CDs were not for sale, listeners started requesting the songs. Research done
by ElevaciÃ³n in the communities where the songs were being played found that
the songs became "the talk of the town," Izquierdo says.

It is difficult to measure how effective the corridos have been in aiding the
government's overall effort, but the Border Patrol's Ciliberti cites a steady
decline in deaths and rescues along the Southwest border over the past four
years. He attributes it to the  agency's broader approach to illegal
immigration. According to Ciliberti, 492  people died along the Southwest border
in 2005. Last year, 390 deaths were recorded. In terms of rescues  in that same
area, the Border Patrol  assisted 2,550 people in distress in 2005. Last year,
1,263 were rescued.

"What we're doing now, that we really haven't done before, is take a more
holistic view of border security," he says. "There's no mention of being
punitive in any of these corridos. These are simply about the dangers."

But whatever its intent, the program raises questions about whether the Border
Patrol should be doing this at all. The United States has long used music, art
and other forms of cultural diplomacy as a way of reaching and influencing
people in other countries, but those efforts have been relatively out in the
open. The Border Patrol's involvement is not mentioned, nor is it traceable on
the brown glossy CD cover with "migra corridos" printed in gold. More-discerning
eyes might notice "bsi" (for Border Safety Initiative) at the bottom right-hand
corner inside the cover.

Still, the agency defends the approach despite the lack of transparency.

"I think the message we're putting out is real, and it's a message that needs to
be heard," says Steve Cribby, also with the Border Patrol. "Whether people
decide to hear it or not is up to them. We're not making anything up. We're
educating people."

Juan Flores, a drummer in a Stockton, Calif.-based band that plays corridos,
says the Border Patrol's approach is a smart one. "They are thinking outside the
box," he says. "It's propaganda, in a good way."

A number of the professional writers, musicians and singers for the "Migra
Corridos" project are Mexican nationals now living in Washington and New York.
And all were aware of Border Patrol's involvement -- and concealment -- in the
project.

Rodolfo HernÃ¡ndez, who works for ElevaciÃ³n, wrote the lyrics for the corridos,
inspired by newspaper clippings. He said any initial hesitation among the
musicians was eased knowing  the CD's release would benefit their country.
"Mexico is suffering a lot," says HernÃ¡ndez, 35. "The effect of immigration is
not just what happens at the border, it's what we leave behind."

And the backing of Border Patrol didn't give pause to New York-based RubÃ©n
Flores, who  sang two of the  tracks on the CD: "En la Raya" and "Veinte AÃ±os."

"I thought it was a smart thing to do, to have that kind of approach," says
Flores, who once sang for a popular musical comedy show in Mexico. To those in
his native country who might feel deceived by the project, Flores says, "I would
like them to think of their parents, their brothers and sisters -- the people
who are left behind if somebody dies -- and how they would feel," he says.

"I would say that if they really listen to the lyrics and what the song is
about, that is the most important thing," he says. "It wouldn't be important
where the message is coming from, but the essence."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince George's County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photo Illustration By Susana Sanchez -- The Washington Post
IMAGE; By Linda Davidson -- The Washington Post; Rodolfo HernÃ¡ndez wrote the
lyrics for "Migra Corridos," a U.S. Border Patrol-produced album of folk songs
about the hazards illegal immigrants face.
IMAGE; ElevaciÃ³n; "No Mas Cruces en la Frontera" means "no more crossing on the
border" and "no more crosses on the border."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 16, 2009 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Separation Anxiety;
Gay couples should be allowed to stay together in the United States.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 409 words


THE UNITING American Families Act would allow gay and lesbian Americans and
permanent residents to sponsor their foreign-born partners for legal residency
in the United States. The bill, introduced last month in the Senate by Patrick
Leahy (D-Vt.) and in the House by Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), would add "permanent
partner" and "permanent partnership" after the words "spouse" and "marriage" in
relevant sections of the Immigration and Nationality Act. If passed, it would
right a gross unfairness.

Under the proposal,a "permanent partnership" is defined as a "committed,
intimate relationship" with another adult "in which both parties intend a
lifelong commitment." The couple must be financially interdependent and not
married to or in a permanent partnership with anyone else. And the partners
can't be related. The benefit comes with the same immigration restrictions and
enforcement standards that apply to heterosexual couples. Fraudulent permanent
partnerships face the same penalties as fake marriages: up to five years in
prison and up to a $250,000 fine.

"Under current law, committed same-sex foreign partners of American citizens are
unable to use the family immigration system, which accounts for a majority of
the green cards and immigrant visas granted annually by the United States," Mr.
Leahy said upon introducing the bill. "The promotion of family unity has long
been part of federal immigration policy, and we should honor that principle by
providing all Americans the opportunity to be with their loved ones." According
to the most recent census, he added, about 35,000 binational, same-sex couples
are living in the United States. The new legislation would ensure that the
family connections valued under immigration law are extended to gays and
lesbians.

The strain of the status quo on gay and lesbian binational couples should not be
discounted. Because their relationships are not legally recognized by the United
States, some couples have resorted to illegal marriages where the foreign
nationals marry Americans to get green cards that allow them to stay in the
country permanently. In other cases, Americans have exiled themselves to be with
their partners. Sixteen countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Israel,
South Africa and the United Kingdom, allow residents to sponsor same-sex
permanent partners for legal immigration. American gays and lesbians should not
have to choose between their country and their partners.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

ANNAPOLIS DIGEST

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B08

LENGTH: 581 words

House Tentatively Approves Driver's License Bill

 The House of Delegates gave preliminary approval last night to a bill that
would allow thousands of undocumented immigrants to keep their driver's licenses
-- but close the door to new applicants next month.

The bill, debated for more than three hours, is a compromise in a long-simmering
debate over whether Maryland should continue to license illegal immigrants. The
legislation sets up a two-tiered system for those who already can drive by
requiring their licenses to be converted when renewed to a driving permit that
would deny them access to commercial planes and federal buildings.

The Senate is leaning toward a stricter bill that would require all license
holders to prove they are in the country legally.

The House bill was amended from a version sponsored by many Republicans that had
called for a lawful presence of drivers. Last night, the Democratic-controlled
House rebuffed GOP attempts to change it back.

"It's an amnesty bill," said House Minority Leader Anthony J. O'Donnell
(R-Calvert).

"It's not the bill they want," said Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George's), an
advocate for immigrants. "It's not the bill I want, either. It's a compromise."

One by one, the bill's Republican sponsors stood up on the House floor and had
their names removed from it, as did several Democrats who oppose ending the
current system.

-- Lisa Rein

House Passes Bill to Reduce Greenhouse Gases

  The House followed the Senate yesterday in approving legislation that mandates
a 25 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. Such emissions are
thought to cause global warming.

The Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Act, backed by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D),
would achieve about half its goals through existing laws that curb carbon
emissions from car tailpipes and power plants. Much of the rest would come from
conservation efforts by homeowners and building owners. The bill exempts the
small-manufacturing sector unless a federal emissions law is passed. The 107 to
31 vote was largely along party lines, with Republicans saying the mandate would
be too costly.

-- Lisa Rein

Both Chambers Approve Anti-Spying Legislation

Lawmakers have approved legislation to prevent state police and other law
enforcement officers from spying on peaceful protest groups.

The Freedom of Association and Assembly Protection Act, introduced in response
to state police surveillance of groups opposed to the death penalty and Iraq
war, passed the House and Senate by unanimous votes yesterday. Minor differences
between the bills, which were strengthened from one proposed by Gov. Martin
O'Malley (D), should be easily resolved. Under the measure, police must have a
"reasonable, articulable" suspicion that a group is planning criminal activity
before officers can begin covert monitoring.

-- Lisa Rein

Bill on Members' Right to Court Delays Is Adopted

The House adopted a bill yesterday that would give General Assembly members the
right to get a delay from courts for any legal proceeding with which they are
involved, from five days before their annual legislative session until 10 days
after its end. The legislature's many lawyers are given the right to get a
continuance from judges in court proceedings involving their clients. If the
bill is approved by the Senate and signed into law, it would extend that
privilege to all lawmakers, including when they are defendants in criminal
cases. The measure passed 135 to 3.

-- Rosalind S. Helderman

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Met 2 Edition

Easy-to-Get Licenses Expose Md. to Fraud;
Out-of-State Illegal Immigrants Exploit Rules

BYLINE: Lisa Rein and N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1285 words


No. 5284 Randolph Rd., in a Rockville shopping center, is a modest Parcel Plus
store where small businesses rent mailboxes by the month. It's also the address
used by at least 42 undocumented immigrants living in states along the Eastern
Seaboard to fake a Maryland residence so they could get a driver's license,
records show.

Most of them got away with it, authorities say, evidence that Maryland -- the
last holdout east of the Colorado Rockies in the nationwide effort to tighten
rules on how states issue driver's licenses -- has become a magnet for illegal
immigrants from Georgia to Delaware seeking driving privileges.

Along with New Mexico, Hawaii and Washington state, Maryland does not check the
immigration status of drivers when they apply for a license. The policy has made
the state vulnerable to widespread fraud by illegal immigrants living outside
Maryland -- as well as to criminals seeking to create false identities --
according to court records and interviews with state officials.

And in some cases, state workers who issue licenses have run sophisticated
schemes right out of Motor Vehicle Administration branches. Many of those
employees have been successfully prosecuted.

Security is the chief concern cited by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) and lawmakers as
the General Assembly debates whether to require license-seekers to verify their
lawful presence in the country. It's a change the Democratic-controlled
legislature has resisted out of sensitivity to immigrants. But to comply with a
federal law known as Real ID, the state must show this year that legal residents
have access to a secure, nationally recognized license.

"This is not about immigration policy," said Maryland's motor vehicle
administrator, John Kuo. "It's about the security of our identification card."

Immigrant rights advocates support a two-tiered system that would also comply
with federal law by allowing newcomers without proof of legal status to get a
limited license for driving -- but not to board airplanes, enter federal
buildings or cross borders. O'Malley and other opponents say that wouldn't stop
the fraud problem.

If it doesn't pass its own law, Maryland would be forced to meet an early
deadline to put into effect other costly provisions of the Real ID law.

Kuo could not say how many undocumented immigrants from other states have
obtained a Maryland license. But he noted that although there are at most
300,000 illegal immigrants living in the state, since 2006 his agency has
processed about 350,000 licenses for drivers using foreign documents without
U.S. visa stamps.

Maryland's license is considered so insecure that some states, including
Colorado, Arizona and Oklahoma, no longer accept it as a proof of identity for
relocating drivers.

Similar concerns have led the District to deny all out-of-state licenses as
proof of identity. Virginia still accepts them.

MVA officials said it is relatively easy for illegal immigrants from other
states to get a Maryland license. They must take a driving test, but they can
prove their identity with a foreign driver's license or passport even if it
lacks a U.S. visa stamp, along with statements from cellphone companies or
banks. Such bills are also used as proof of a Maryland address -- and if you
call a bank or cellphone company, they will change the address with no questions
asked.

Many give a friend's address, said a clerk at a Langley Park store that charges
fees to help with the application process. The clerk said about three clients a
month use that ruse.

"They're mainly from New Jersey. It's pretty obvious," said the woman, who asked
not to be identified.

Others choose rural locations where mail is easy to intercept, such as Winback
Farm, a horse farm near Maryland's northern border. On Jan. 16, 2008, a woman
with a passport from Argentina named Gabriel Beatriz Wekid gave the farm's
address to the MVA in Harford County and provided a Sprint wireless bill listing
it as well. But another document raised a flag to the examiner: a letter from a
Delaware agency.

Wekid really lived in Newark, Del., and had never been employed at Winback,
according to the farm's human resources director. Wekid, who could not be
located for comment, was charged with two violations of fraud law, court records
show. She paid a $55 fine and was given 60 days probation.

Officials successfully prosecuted 250 cases of residency fraud last year. The
MVA cancelled an additional 246 licenses it says were fraudulently obtained in
2007, including those delivered to the Parcel Plus on Randolph Road.

Owner Felix Heymann said he does not require customers to prove they live in
Maryland. "They give us an address," he said, "but it's very difficult for us to
verify it."

Bill Donoho, head of the MVA's fraud division, said this represents a sliver of
the illegal activity. With four full-time investigators each juggling 30 alleged
fraud cases, he said, "we can't quite cope with all of it."

MVA officials said the scale of attempted fraud is underscored by the volume of
out-of-state calls to the toll-free number dedicated to scheduling appointments
for applicants using foreign documents without U.S. visa stamps. During the last
three months of 2008, almost one in four of the 297,1000 calls originated from
53 states and territories outside Maryland. Among them were 21,998 from
Virginia.

Officials have since blocked out-of-state calls. But it's still extremely
difficult to get one of the 2,000 weekly slots. Several immigrants outside the
Beltsville branch said it took them as long as eight months to get through.

The waits have spawned a cottage industry charging hundreds of dollars to help
get licenses: making appointments, reviewing documents, providing a ride to MVA
branches and translation services.

The services are legal. But motor vehicle officials emphasized that no one has
to pay for them. And they said in a growing number of cases the brokers cater to
drivers who should not be getting licenses.

Victor Torrez Gonzalez, 47, gave the MVA a Laurel address when he applied for a
license in August, presenting a receipt for postage stamps as proof. But the
examiner noticed a familiar name on the document: Carla Garcia, who had
submitted four separate Maryland mailing addresses and was on a list of
suspicious names. Gonzalez first said the couple lived together, then admitted
she was helping him get a license. His real address was in Clifton, N.J. He told
a Harford County judge he needed a license for work, records show. He spent 15
days in the Harford jail.

Maryland also prosecuted 507 immigrants last year for supplying false foreign
licenses or other identity documents.

The 18 document examiners who vet the authenticity of foreign documents use
special machines to inspect them and compare them to reference manuals. But they
can not check them against foreign records.

In addition, the U.S. attorney's office has prosecuted members of numerous
bribery rings that worked out of the MVA, including Valentin Millstein, the
owner of a Silver Spring driving school convicted of scheming with an employee
and former employee at the Beltsville branch. They issued more than 100
fraudulent licenses and identification cards to drivers, some illegal
immigrants, who paid $2,000 each.

However, Kimberly Propeack of the immigrant advocacy group CASA of Maryland,
noted that bribery still goes on in states where illegal immigrants can't get
licenses. And she said that whatever residency fraud Maryland might prevent by
tightening its rules would be outweighed by a rise in internal corruption and
document mills.

"The more difficult it is to obtain [a license] legally, the harder people are
going to struggle to obtain it fraudulently," Propeack said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2009



CORRECTION: --  A March 28 Page One article on Maryland driver's licenses
misstated the number of calls to the Motor Vehicle Administration's toll-free
number for out-of-country appointments during the last three months of 2008. The
number is 297,100.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Michael Williamson -- The Washington Post; Rented mailboxes
at a Parcel Plus store in Rockville were used in driver's license fraud.
IMAGE; Photos By Dayna Smith For The Washington Post; People line up to get a
number at the Motor Vehicle Administration branch in Beltsville. A cottage
industry helps immigrants get MVA appointments.
IMAGE; MVA document examiners Christel Davis, left, and Carlos Correia confer on
a client's documents. Immigrants need not show a U.S. visa to get a license.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

O'Malley Supports House Bill on Immigrant Licenses

BYLINE: Lisa Rein and Ann E. Marimow; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 494 words


Gov. Martin O'Malley backed a House of Delegates plan yesterday to allow
thousands of undocumented immigrants in Maryland to keep their driver's licenses
but shut the door to new applicants who cannot prove they are in the country
legally.

The governor said he would sign either a bill passed by the House and favored by
immigrant rights advocates or stricter legislation approved by the state Senate
that would require all applicants to show their legal status. But O'Malley (D)
called the House plan a "more practical and more reasonable approach" to
resolving an issue that has simmered in Annapolis for five years as officials
have struggled with how to comply with the federal Real ID security law.

"At the end of the day, the most important thing is to come into compliance"
with the law, O'Malley said after an appearance in Rockville.

The conflicting House and Senate bills underscore one of the legislative
session's most contentious issues and will probably need to be resolved by a
conference committee before the General Assembly adjourns in two weeks.

The governor's position on driving privileges for illegal immigrants apparently
has softened since late February, when he said he supported driver's license
legislation to require proof of legal residency. He cited widespread fraud by
undocumented drivers he said were flocking from out of state to Maryland, the
only state east of the Colorado Rockies that does not check the immigration
status of license applicants.

O'Malley spokesman Rick Abbruzzese said both bills would stop license seekers
from getting fraudulent documents through the Motor Vehicle Administration by
putting a stop to the out-of-country appointment system, which would end either
June 1 under the House bill or Oct. 1 under the Senate one. But the House plan
sets up a dual system for those already licensed by offering them a card that on
renewal they could use to drive but not to board planes or enter federal
buildings.

"Clearly the governor understands the drastic implications of taking away
licenses for 150,000 people living in Maryland," said Kim Propeack of CASA of
Maryland, the state's largest immigrant advocacy group, estimating the number of
licenses the state has issued under the out-of-country system.

MVA officials have said any dual system would be costly and efforts at fraud
would continue. Administrator John Kuo declined comment on the governor's
position yesterday, referring questions to the O'Malley's legislative staff.

Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller Jr. (D-Calvert), who supports a legal
presence law for all drivers, called the governor's position "caring and
thoughtful" and said he is concerned about "immigrant-bashing rhetoric." But
Miller said Maryland cannot continue to "reward the criminal conduct" of those
who have and could continue to obtain fraudulent licenses if illegal immigrants
continued to have driving privileges.

Republicans called on the governor to support the Senate bill.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

2010 Deportation Hearing Is Set for Obama's Aunt

BYLINE: Judy Rakowski; Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Six years after President Obama's Kenyan aunt was first ordered to leave the
United States, a U.S. immigration judge yesterday gave her another 10 months to
prepare an argument against deportation.

"Praise God," said Zeituni Onyango as she stepped out of a closed hearing
yesterday morning using a cane and wearing a rust-colored wig. She was
responding to a decision by Judge Leonard Shapiro, who twice previously ordered
her to be sent back to Kenya, to schedule a full hearing on her asylum request
for Feb. 4, 2010.

The case of Onyango, who guided Obama around Kenya on a visit 20 years ago, has
inflamed activists against illegal immigration and has put her nephew in a
difficult position despite his insistence that he will play no role in her case.

Critics say Onyango, 56, has received special treatment because she wasn't
deported earlier, twice was granted a reopening of her case and now has another
10 months to stay in the country until her next hearing.

Citing Obama's statements that relevant laws should be applied to Onyango,
William Gheen, who heads Americans for Legal Immigration, said, "If the rule of
law were applied in this case, Zeituni Onyango should have been deported a long
time ago."

Rush Limbaugh criticized Obama's response on the radio recently, saying: "The
president said he's going to let the law play out. It is heartless . . . he
could buy her an apartment; he could buy her a green card; he's the president."
But he added, "If he does that, then he steps on U.S. law."

Onyango is one of more than 13,000 immigrants a year who seek to have their
cases reopened, which can occur repeatedly, according to federal immigration
officials. The extensive backlog in Boston's immigration court makes her
10-month delay routine, if not shorter than many others, according to
immigration lawyers.

"Ms. Onyango's case is being treated like any other case," said Fatimah A.
Mateen, a spokeswoman for the federal Executive Office for Immigration Review.

The fact that Onyango's nephew is president of the United States could not only
provide fresh grounds for her bid to not return to Kenya, where political
violence has spiked in the past year, but it could enhance her chances of
winning asylum, immigration lawyers said.

"How could she possibly hope to go back to Kenya and keep a low profile?" asked
Boston lawyer Ilana Greenstein. "Aside from the changes in the political
tensions in Kenya, I can't imagine any circumstance under which she wouldn't be
in more danger now."

But Gheen said Zeituni should be prosecuted for accepting public housing and
should not be granted asylum. "She would be a celebrity in her home nation, not
a refugee," he said.

Onyango, the half-sister of Obama's late father, first sought political asylum
in 2002 "due to violence in Kenya," according to Mike Rogers, a spokesman for
her lawyers. Rogers declined to reveal the new grounds for asylum.

In March 2003, Onyango was first ordered into immigration court, the court
spokeswoman said. The following month, Shapiro turned down her first asylum bid
and ordered her deported. After a series of unsuccessful appeals, Onyango again
was ordered to leave the country on Oct. 16, 2004.

But Onyango, who suffers from a neurological condition, quietly remained in the
country, living in state-subsidized public housing in South Boston, where she
moved before she got into immigration trouble. In October, just weeks before the
presidential election, her presence garnered international media attention.

Washington immigration lawyer Abed A. Ayoub, of the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee, called the delays in Onyango's case routine. Many
cases take five years to resolve, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Without Papers, No Full License;
Md. Immigrants' Appointments Cut

BYLINE: Lisa Rein and Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1012 words


The Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration will cancel scheduled appointments for
8,000 immigrants applying for driver's licenses and has stopped booking them in
advance of a new law that will curtail driving privileges for illegal immigrants
starting June 1.

Every driver in the state will be affected by the change by having to present a
Social Security card or other proof that they are in the country legally to get
a license.

As news of the measure -- passed in the final hour of the General Assembly
session Monday -- coursed through the immigrant community, officials mobilized
to change computer programs and launch a public information campaign. The
current system has allowed hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants to
drive but has made Maryland vulnerable to fraud by out-of-state motorists.

Illegal immigrants who have licenses can renew them once for a driving permit
before they are cut off July 1, 2015, a date set in a compromise bill muscled
through the House of Delegates and the more conservative Senate. The permit will
not provide access to federal buildings or commercial airplanes.

Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) is expected to sign the bill next month. By joining 46
states that require lawful presence of drivers, Maryland will comply with the
federal security law known as Real ID.

"Everyone applying for a license is affected," Motor Vehicle Administrator John
Kuo said.

Through the Internet and a toll-free phone line, the agency has been booking
2,000 appointments a week for drivers who provide foreign documents that lack a
U.S. visa stamp. The slots are so coveted that the system has a 60-day backlog.
The 8,000 appointments for June filled last week. The MVA will send cancellation
letters to those applicants, Kuo said.

Learner's permits issued before June 1 will be honored when their term expires,
as long as the driver passes the written and road tests, Kuo said. The driving
permit for renewing motorists without lawful status will read "not for federal
purposes" on the front or back and might be issued in a different color than the
current blue with a touch of yellow.

Under the measure, legal residents will have to show a Social Security card, W-2
form, pay stub or other document proving their identity "or they can't obtain a
product," Kuo said. He said, however, that the MVA will ask the attorney general
whether renewing motorists whose Social Security numbers are in the system can
be exempted from providing the documentation.

Immigrants flooded radio stations and advocacy groups yesterday with anxious
calls about the change. "It's only confusion," said Mario Quiroz-ServellÃ³n,
spokesman for CASA of Maryland, the state's largest immigrant advocacy group.

The phones at Wheaton's Radio AmÃ©rica 1540 AM were clogged all morning, said
news director Samuel G. GÃ¡lvez. Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery) and
Prince George's County Council member William A. Campos (D-Hyattsville) went on
the airwaves to explain the change and answer questions. Although many callers
were dismayed by the measure and saw it as evidence of growing anti-Hispanic
sentiment, others recognize that the system was being abused by out-of-state
residents looking to obtain a license fraudulently, GÃ¡lvez said.

His message to those who are undocumented and want licenses was simple: "Hurry
up. I told them to put a rocket under their butts."

Armando Rodriguez, a 21-year-old from Honduras who rides the bus from Wheaton to
his job as a mechanic at a gas station on Piney Branch Road, said he planned to
do everything possible to try get a license before the window closed.

"The MVA requires a lot of paperwork, so I don't know if I'll have enough time,"
he said. "I need to find someone who can help me."

Would he drive without a license if he couldn't get one legally?

"I don't want to do that," he said. "It's scary driving without a license."

But immigrants trying to get a license fast will probably be out of luck. No
further appointment slots will open before the law takes effect. "We don't have
the resources or overtime to bring extra people in before June," Kuo said.

For some other immigrant drivers, the 2015 expiration date seemed sufficiently
remote, given that advocates are hoping that the Obama administration will
overhaul immigration policy in a way that creates a path to legal status.

"We bought some time," said Del. Kathleen M. Dumais (D-Montgomery), who worked
on the compromise plan but wanted a longer grace period for immigrant drivers.

The bill also includes steep penalties for the fraud that has beset the system
as other states have shut their doors to undocumented drivers: up to three years
in jail and a $2,500 fine. But many lawmakers who opposed allowing those with
licenses to keep them are concerned that even the limited license will continue
to make Maryland a magnet for fraud.

Advocates for immigrants predict that undocumented immigrants will continue to
drive without insurance or training, making them a safety risk. In Annapolis,
Williams Castillo said he will continue offering classes to the high school
students and adults who attend his mostly Latino driving school on Chinquapin
Round Road.

"Everybody's worried. It's very bad news," Castillo, an immigrant from Peru,
said yesterday. "But I will still offer them classes, because I want safety for
everybody."

Others worry that the rush to obtain a license before June will lead to an
increase in scams as dubious "consultants" offer to book MVA appointments in
exchange for hundreds of dollars in fees, even if they're unable to secure the
slots through the MVA's online system.

"There's a whole business dedicated to that," said Clinton resident Antonio
AlemÃ¡n, who volunteers at his church to provide information to other
Spanish-speaking immigrants. He spent yesterday watching the local Univsion
station on TV, preparing for a barrage of questions after Sunday Mass.

What did he plan to say Sunday? "That there aren't going to be any more driver's
licenses for those who don't have papers."

Staff research director Lucy Shackelford contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Day Laborer Helps Police in Robbery Case;
Immigrant-Friendly Policy Credited After Vehicle Tip Leads to 2 Suspects

BYLINE: Dan Morse; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 521 words


Police in Takoma Park said yesterday that their policy of not enforcing
immigration laws helped them solve a violent crime recently when a Hispanic day
laborer saw suspects fleeing after an armed robbery and scratched a license
plate number into the dirt.

The information enabled police to obtain warrants against two suspects in the
robbery Friday of a dry-cleaning business on New Hampshire Avenue.

"We took two guys off the street as a result of our good relationship with the
immigrant community," Takoma Park Police Chief Ronald Ricucci said.

Ricucci said immigrants do not regard the police in Takoma warily because
officers, as a matter of policy, do not inquire about immigration status. If
officers did enforce immigration laws, he said, the day laborers gathered in a
parking lot across from the dry-cleaner's Friday afternoon "would have gone in
the opposite direction when we pulled up."

Supporters of enforcement say that a more aggressive approach boosts public
safety overall by making illegal immigrants reluctant to break the law because
they fear deportation. Brad Botwin, director of the group Help Save Maryland,
said the Takoma case should be viewed in the context of broader needs.

"It's a nice example," he said, "but I would rather go the other direction and
enforce immigration laws."

Two of the robbery suspects -- Earl Morton, 18, and a 16-year-old, both of the
District -- were being held yesterday after leading police on a chase into the
District on Friday and crashing their car into a police cruiser, authorities
said. Two other suspects were at large.

The robbery was one of at least three that police are investigating for links to
the same group of suspects.

Takoma Park has one of the region's least-aggressive policies on immigration
violations. Montgomery County police recently adopted a policy requiring
officers to give immigration officials the name of anyone arrested in a violent
crime or on a handgun violation. County officials said that by limiting such
referrals to certain crimes, the policy will not scare away witnesses and
victims whose cooperation they need.

In Frederick and Prince William counties, officials question everyone arrested
about their immigration status.

Shortly before 2 p.m. Friday, three people entered the dry-cleaner's, in the
6400 block of New Hampshire Avenue. At least one wore a black mask and one had a
handgun, police said. One waited in a car, police said.

Across the street were 20 to 25 day laborers waiting for work, Ricucci said.
After the robbery, officers approached the day laborers. Some were helpful,
including one who told police he had written the plate number in the dirt,
Ricucci said.

The information was broadcast to police in the area. The car had been reported
stolen and was already being sought. But it was the day laborer's tip that
linked the vehicle to the robbery.

The day laborer was not in the parking lot yesterday. Others gathered there,
including Miguel Osorio of Guatemala, said they do not fear the police.

Carlos Valle, standing next to Osorio, said he corrects the officers who drive
by and say, "Hey."

"I'm Carlos," he tells them.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Illegal Immigrants' Legal Kids Snarl Policy;
Increased Birthrate Exacerbates Issue

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 856 words


A new report providing the most detailed portrait to date of the illegal
immigrant population found that it is mostly made up of young families that are
having children at a much faster rate than previously known. The study, released
yesterday by the nonpartisan, Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center, also found
that a disproportionate share of such children live in poverty and lack health
insurance.

Because any child born in the United States has a right to citizenship, the
growing presence of these children is likely to complicate the debate over
immigration policies aimed at their parents.

The question of so-called "mixed-status" families is not new. But the increase
in the number of children born to illegal immigrants is likely to exacerbate
such situations in years to come.

Immigrant advocates and members of Congress, hoping to build momentum for
legislation legalizing unauthorized immigrants, have been highlighting the
plight of their U.S.-born children in a series of public events across the
country in recent months. But the issue also could heighten anxieties in many
communities that the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants will increase
demands on schools and social services.

The findings, which analyzed census data, also suggest that the impact of the
unprecedented increase in illegal immigration over the past three decades will
continue to be felt for years to come, even as the size of the illegal immigrant
population appears to have leveled off since 2006 at about 10.4 million adults
and 1.5 million foreign-born children. By contrast, the number of children born
in the United States to illegal immigrants rose from 2.7 million in 2003 to 4
million in 2008.

The growing presence of children of illegal immigrants in schools has also
fueled concern over the cost of illegal immigration in many area communities
where the foreign-born population has risen rapidly in the past decade.
Commissioners in Frederick County, for instance, have repeatedly tried to make
public school officials tally the number of such students in hopes of prompting
federal lawmakers to increase education funding or step up enforcement. (Last
month, the Maryland State Board of Education blocked the effort, saying it could
discourage illegal immigrants from enrolling their children in school.)

Children of illegal immigrants now account for about one in 15 elementary and
secondary school students nationwide and more than one in 10 students in five
states: Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada and Texas. The vast majority of
these children were born in the United States.

In 2007, the poverty rate for such children was almost twice as high as for
those born to either legal immigrants or U.S.-born parents. Similarly, U.S.-born
children of unauthorized immigrants were about twice as likely not to have
health insurance in 2008 as those born to legal immigrants and three times as
likely as those born to U.S.-born parents.

The Census Bureau does not ask people their immigration status. So the authors
used a technique that estimates the number of legal immigrants using other
government records, such as immigrant admissions, then subtracts that population
from the total number of foreign-born estimated by the bureau to come up with
the number of illegal immigrants. It analyzed census statistics from March 2008.

The spike in births to unauthorized immigrants -- 70 percent of whom come from
Mexico or Central America -- is largely due to their relative youth compared
with the general population, as well as their greater propensity to marry and
have children.

The result, said co-author Jeffery S. Passel, is "a different picture than what
we usually see of undocumented immigrants. We usually see the young male day
laborers on street corners. But only a fourth of undocumented immigrants are men
who are here by themselves without spouses or children. This is a population
that is largely made up of young families."

Passel added that this "complicates greatly the difficulty of coming up with
policies to deal with this population. . . . While we may be able to fit people
into boxes of 'undocumented,' 'legal,' 'legal temporary,' and 'U.S. citizens,'
it's not so easy to fit families into that same set of little boxes."

The study's findings also point to the continued geographic dispersal of illegal
immigrants since 1990 across southeastern states with little prior history of
immigration.

Although longtime magnets such as Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and
Texas retained their appeal -- and California continues to house the largest
number of unauthorized immigrants -- growth there has slowed compared with such
states as Georgia and North Carolina. Similarly, in Virginia, which ranks 10th
in number of illegal immigrants, the unauthorized population quintupled since
1990 to 300,000 and accounts for 4 percent of residents and 5.1 percent of
workers.

Maryland ranks 11th with an estimated 250,000 unauthorized immigrants,
comprising 4.7 percent of residents and 6.7 percent of workers, and the
District's 30,000 illegal immigrants make up 5 percent of the population and 7.1
percent of the workforce.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Immigrants filled the
Mall for a demonstration in 2006. The undocumented population seems to have
leveled off since then at about 11.9 million.
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 30, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Maryland Briefing

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 453 words

MONTGOMERY COUNTY

Immigration Lawyer Is Sentenced

A Silver Spring immigration lawyer was sentenced yesterday to five years and
four months in prison for using his practice to prepare false asylum
applications and defraud and deceive U.S. immigration authorities.

Patrick G. Tzeuton, 42, who is from Cameroon and worked with many clients from
West Africa, authorized fraudulent filings and coached his clients to lie to
immigration officials, prosecutors said.

A jury convicted Tzeuton in February after a four-week trial, and in court
yesterday, Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven M. Dunne asked U.S. District Judge
Peter J. Messitte to impose a prison term of 64 months. Tzeuton has been jailed
since his conviction.

Defense attorney Brian W. Stolarz asked for half of the 57 to 71 months
recommended by the sentencing guidelines.

Stolarz said that Tzeuton maintains his innocence and plans to appeal.

-- Henri E. Cauvin

CHARLES COUNTY

Firefighter Injured in Blaze at House

A Charles County firefighter suffered burns to his back yesterday morning in a
two-alarm fire that officials said displaced a family of two adults and four
children in Indian Head.

The blaze in the unit block of Fair Hill Lane was reported at 2:37 a.m. and
caused extensive damage, Charles County government spokesman George Clarkson
said.

The firefighter was injured when he fell through a section of floor that had
collapsed. He was taken to the burn unit of Washington Hospital Center, Clarkson
said, for treatment of injuries that were not considered life-threatening.

Clarkson said the adults and children who live in the house were home at the
time of the fire but escaped on their own.

Fire investigators are trying to determine the cause of the fire and are
exploring possibilities including that it began with an outdoor barbecue grill
and spread to the house.

-- Debbi Wilgoren

ENVIRONMENT

Chesapeake Grass Beds Increase

The area of underwater grass beds in the Chesapeake Bay -- an important
indicator of the ecosystem's health -- increased by 18 percent last year,
scientists said yesterday.

Surveys of the Chesapeake showed about 76,861 acres of grass last year compared
with 64,917 acres in 2007.

That was the fourth-largest total since 1984, researchers at the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency's Chesapeake Bay Program said.

But it is only 42 percent of the amount they say the Chesapeake needs.

Among the possible explanations, researchers said, were improved treatment of
sewage in the Potomac River, which left the water cleaner and allowed more light
to reach the bottom.

In addition, they said, lower amounts of pollution coming down the Susquehanna
River might be the cause of increased grass beds near its mouth.

-- David A. Fahrenthold

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 8, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

No Turning Back;
Rep. Luis Gutierrez Is Making Immigration Reform a Personal Cause

BYLINE: David Montgomery; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 2263 words


The audience  of more than 700 packing this church in Elizabeth, N.J., already
knows him from appearances on Telemundo and Univision, so there's little need
for the introduction by the Spanish-speaking master of ceremonies:

"Â¡El MoisÃ©s del movimiento de inmigraciÃ³n en los Estados Unidos!" (The Moses
of the immigration movement in the United States!) "Â¡El Gallito que no huye,
que va a pelear por la reforma migratoria!" (The little fighting rooster who
doesn't flee, who will fight for immigration reform!)

A great wave of applause propels Rep. Luis Gutierrez to the microphone before
the altar. The Democrat from Chicago is way outside his congressional district,
but at the center of his world.

He brings no notes. He starts slow. His words surf on crests of emotion, tacking
fluidly between English and Spanish, in the singular oratory of a Chicago-born
Puerto Rican Catholic who preaches like a Baptist.

"There are some who say, 'Luisito, aren't you being a little strong?' " he says
in Spanish, drawing responses of "No! No!"

"Can we be weak in protesting the injustice of these testimonials?" The assembly
has just heard from a boy whose father was deported, a girl who fears losing her
mother, a citizen dying of cancer whose American children will be left in the
care of his wife who may be deported.

"I can't be weak in front of these people. You can't come to this church and cry
and the next day not raise your voice in defense!"

The voice booming from the slight, wiry figure is unexpectedly big and deep. His
role in this political passion play isn't what you might expect from his
background either. His first language was English. His parents were born
citizens in Puerto Rico. The border crossing closest to his district leads to
Canada.

And yet Gutierrez, 55, has traversed frontiers in his career, real and
metaphorical, and one constant in 16 years on the Hill has been immigration
reform, including trying to blaze a path to citizenship for the 12 million
illegal immigrants now estimated to be in the country.

Now, as some other House and Senate champions of the issue step back for reasons
of politics or health, the immigration debate is about to get even more
emotional.

Because El Gallito is leading the charge.

Mobilizing a Message

Gutierrez felt happy that November night in Chicago, watching Barack Obama
declare victory. He was also perturbed: Not a word about immigration reform.

Nor had it escaped Gutierrez's notice that in the speech accepting the
nomination in Denver, Obama gave just one sentence to the subject.

He decided to apply a little pressure, Chicago-style.

"I know Rahm Emanuel," Gutierrez says. Obama's chief of staff, after all, also
used to be a House member from Chicago. "Rahm Emanuel is not going to move
unless pushed. . . . You gotta say, 'Hey, Rahm, here we are!' "

Gutierrez and his allies generally define immigration reform to include an end
to workplace raids and deportations that break up families, and creation of a
program for the 12 million illegal immigrants to get in line behind those who
have already applied legally. There would also be enhanced border security and
other steps.

Latinos voted for Obama in unprecedented numbers, helping swing key states.
Gutierrez thinks it's payback time. This year, with Democrats in greater control
and an advocate in the White House, success seems possible -- but only if the
issue can command attention when the White House and Congress are juggling
multiple crises.

Gutierrez launched a cross-country barnstorming tour. He called it "Familias
Unidas" -- United Families.

Nearly every weekend since late last year, he has been holding mass rallies in
churches or synagogues. The idea is simple and shrewd: Fire up the religious
community. And invite, almost exclusively, American citizens to be the speakers
-- members of so-called "mixed-status" families, those with some members here
illegally and some legally.

The strategy is designed to project the most sympathetic image possible --
illegal day laborers hanging outside the 7-Eleven are a harder sell -- and to
show that the issue is more complicated than illegal vs. legal, more
gut-wrenching than statistical arguments over labor supply. Let there be
citizens with cancer in front of the cameras, children separated from their
parents. The more tragic or appalling the story, the better. Gutierrez is aiming
directly for the tear ducts of the American people.

Why not humanize illegal immigrants? he says. "Make them brothers, sisters,
aunts, uncles, grandchildren, grandparents of American citizens." It hasn't been
hard to find examples; the Pew Hispanic Center estimates that three-quarters of
the children of illegal immigrants -- 4 million youngsters -- are citizens by
birth.

At the church in Elizabeth, the man with terminal lung cancer -- married to an
illegal immigrant, with four American children about to be left behind -- told
his story in a barely audible wheeze. Gutierrez sat in the front pew, silently
wiping tears with both hands. Then he hugged the man.

He freely admits that the cases in each city on the tour are cherry-picked by
professional organizers for maximum impact. So what?

"Emotion is important, it drives you to wish change to occur," he says in his
office a few days later, gulping a Coke, his favorite energy drink. "For me it's
been transformational. . . . That man is going to die of cancer, and meantime
people are thinking of whether or not and when they're going to begin this
process. This process cannot wait. The damage is being done each and every day,
and some of it is irreversible."

He has presented scores of sad-citizen anecdotes in 21 cities, from Dallas to
Detroit, El Paso to Providence, Miami to Milwaukee. "If we could get more people
to hear these testimonies, I know more people would be moved to change the
system."

In Chicago, Cardinal Francis George listened to the stories and called reform "a
matter of conscience." In San Francisco, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi heard the
testimonials and dubbed raids that separate families "un-American."

"The Family Unity Tour reminded us that our immigration system is broken, that
many of its victims are U.S. citizens," Pelosi said in a statement last week.
"With Rep. Gutierrez's leadership, Congress will work with the Obama
administration to enact comprehensive immigration reform."

But supporters of tougher immigration restrictions suspect Gutierrez may
overestimate the power of his tour's argument by anecdote.

"The tactic this year appears to be just appeal to emotion," says Ira Mehlman,
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "What Gutierrez
and his allies are asking is that we overlook the fact that people who broke the
law created these situations for their families in the first place."

Mehlman likens it to saying to the IRS: "You got me, I didn't pay my taxes, but
you're going to hurt my family."

After Gutierrez had visited 10 cities, he and members of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus were invited to meet with Obama in March. They gave him 5,500
petitions signed by citizens on the tour. The president told them he would
address immigration this spring.

"The president has consistently said he wants to start the discussion later this
year because our immigration system is broken," said Nick Shapiro, a White House
spokesman.

In his news conference last week, Obama said, "What I hope to happen is that
we're able to convene a working group, working with key legislators, like Luis
Gutierrez and Nydia VelÃ¡zquez" -- chairman of the Hispanic Caucus -- "and
others, to start looking at a framework of how this legislation might be
shaped."

Gutierrez compares the relationship between the president and his Latino
supporters to a marriage.

"When your wife kind of looks at you, and she tells you something firmly, and
you don't argue because you know you messed up, it makes you a better husband,
makes you a better father," he says. "That's all we're trying to do. We love
Barack Obama. But we want to make him a better president."

Finding His Way

Away from the immigration crusade, the congressman can be boyishly giddy.

Here he is sharing a plate of buffet food at the Shakespeare Theatre's Harman
Hall in Chinatown with his wife of 32 years, Soraida. He has just played a funny
role in the theater's "Will on the Hill" fundraiser, starring members of
Congress performing Shakespeare in outlandish Elizabethan costumes.

"Did you see my hat!" Gutierrez says. He wore a gigantic purple beret with his
gold robe.

The couple have two daughters and a grandson. They met as students in the
mid-1970s at Northeastern Illinois University, where Luis was a radical leader
of the Union for Puerto Rican Students. He led a nonviolent takeover of the
president's office to press demands over faculty and curriculum.

But his fierce embrace of his Latino identity had begun reluctantly. The son of
a cabdriver and an assembly line worker, Gutierrez went through a phase in
boyhood of wanting blue eyes, lighter skin. When his parents, who always dreamed
of returning to Puerto Rico, moved the family to a rural village there during
his high school years, his sense of alienation compounded.

"In Chicago, everybody said, 'Gutierrez, Puerto Rican,' " he says. "You go to
Puerto Rico, they call you gringo, Americanito. You don't speak Spanish. . . .
You laugh about it now, but when you're an adolescent, it isn't funny when
everyone in the classroom is laughing at you."

This was his immigrant's passage, the beginning of his empathy for border
crossers. "I arrived somewhere and said, 'I belong here,' and they said, 'Oh, no
you don't.' "

Like many immigrants, he pined for home -- Chicago. But by the time he got home,
transferring for his senior year in college, he was fluent in Spanish and
inflamed by the rhetoric of Puerto Rican nationalists and black power leaders.

Latinos were a rising force in Chicago, and Gutierrez hitched onto Mayor Harold
Washington's political machine. In his first race for alderman in 1986,
Gutierrez faced another Puerto Rican. The man's Spanish wasn't as good as his,
so Gutierrez challenged him to a debate on Spanish-language television. By the
time the cameras stopped rolling, the election was essentially over. Gutierrez's
supporters gave him his nickname, and in 23 years El Gallito hasn't lost an
election.

One of Gutierrez's first acts when he got to Congress in 1993 was to offer
citizenship workshops in his district. He has helped about 55,000 apply to
become Americans. The Mexican Americans who are the majority of Latinos in
Chicago saw that this Puerto Rican understood their community, and the families
of Eastern European descent appreciated the gesture as well. He's been working
on immigration ever since.

"The extent to which he uses his time and political capital on this singular
issue . . . is unique among members," says Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.). "In the
Congress, the conscience of this issue is Luis Gutierrez."

But critics question how effective he really is. The bipartisan immigration bill
he co-sponsored in 2007 didn't make it to the House floor.

"His whole tour around the nation, that's just a showcase," says Omar LÃ³pez,
the Green Party candidate whom Gutierrez soundly defeated in the last election.
"He was elected to legislate, not to organize."

Gutierrez counters that the politics of immigration is not like that of other
issues. A push from the grass roots can help shore up votes in the Congress and
force the hand of the White House, he says.

Other say his eagerness to get something passed makes Gutierrez too quick to
compromise with Republicans on enforcement.

"He was more than willing to come in our direction when he knew he needed to,"
says Rep. Jeff Flake, the Arizona Republican who co-sponsored the 2007 bill with
Gutierrez.

But Gutierrez's spiritual migration from Puerto Rican radical to a more
passionately moderate crusader is welcomed by his allies.

"Some people call him a bomb-thrower, some people on the left call him a
sellout," says Frank Sharry, founder of America's Voice, an advocate of
immigration reform. "As far as I'm concerned, he's perfectly positioned to be a
leader on this issue, where you need a mobilized base to be competitive, and you
need to cut deals in the center to get it done. So, bomb-thrower or dealmaker? I
think the answer is yes."

The Tour Rolls On

Back in the Elizabeth church, Gutierrez was sketching his plan for success.

"We're not asking for someone to do us a favor," he said, switching to English.
"We're not saying 'please.' "

When he passes between English and Spanish, he's not translating, the way most
bilingual speakers do. He keeps firing the message forward, in whichever tongue,
obeying some mysterious linguistic improvisational instinct. If you don't get
all the words, you can't mistake the music.

"We're simply saying, 'Look, you [Obama] made a commitment. . . . You know that
we know, and now it is time to begin that work.' "

The first leg of the Familias Unidas Tour ends tomorrow with a rally at
McCormick Place in Chicago. Gutierrez designed it around a Mother's Day theme.
He will pointedly feature the line from Obama's nomination acceptance speech:

"Passions fly on immigration, but I don't know anyone who benefits when a mother
is separated from her infant child or an employer undercuts American wages by
hiring illegal workers."

Then the tour will enter a new phase, targeting key districts, with Gutierrez's
focus shifting slightly from the White House to Congress, from emotion to math:

"Let's start getting 218 votes in the House and 60 senators to win the
legislative battle."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Helayne Seidman For The Washington Post; The Illinois
Democrat gets a hug during a rally last week in New Jersey, one in a series of
such events intended to humanize the illegal-immigrant issue.
IMAGE; Photos By Helayne Seidman For The Washington Post; Rep. Luis Gutierrez at
an immigration-reform rally last week in Elizabeth, N.J., part of a
cross-country tour of such events.
IMAGE; The Galarza family -- from left, Gabriela, Juan Diego, Celia and Robert
Carlos -- at the rally. Hector Galarza, the children's father and Celia's
husband, has been deported.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

In 'Virtual Fence,' Continuity With Border Effort by Bush

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 763 words


In announcing the resumption of a "virtual fence" on the U.S.-Mexican border
yesterday, the Obama administration sent a powerful message of continuity with
President George W. Bush, who included a pledge to secure the border as part of
a 2006 effort to persuade Congress to overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

Much  as Bush aides did three years ago, administration officials in the
Department of Homeland Security described a five-year, multibillion-dollar plan
yesterday to link a chain of tower-mounted sensors and other surveillance
equipment over most of the 2,000-mile southern frontier. As before, the network
of cameras, radar and communications gear is intended to speed deployment of
U.S. Border Patrol officers to intercept illegal immigrants, drug smugglers and
other violators, yielding greater "operational control" over the vast and rugged
area.

What is different, DHS officials said, is that they have learned lessons from
the technical problems that dogged the Bush administration's first, 28-mile
pilot project south of Tucson. What remains unclear is whether the ambitious
technology will encounter fresh setbacks that would embarrass President Obama,
who has urged Congress to streamline the immigration system and work out a way
to deal fairly with the 12 million illegal immigrants in the  United States,
analysts said.

James Jay Carafano, a homeland security analyst at the Heritage Foundation,
praised efforts to move beyond Congress's $2 billion drive to build 670 miles of
fencing and vehicle barriers on the border, saying the country is better served
with technology that fits the needs of the Border Patrol than with a
hard-to-maintain "bumper-sticker" fence that the agency doesn't want.

"What the Obama administration is trying to do is sending this political
message, 'We're doing enforcement,' " Carafano said. However, he said, betting
on unproven technology raises the risk that it will end up "overpromising and
under-delivering."

Between 1998 and 2005, the government spent $429 million on two border
surveillance efforts that were so unreliable that only 1 percent of alarms led
to arrests.

Susan Ginsburg, director of the mobility and security program at the Migration
Policy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank in Washington, agreed that "the jury
is out" on whether the virtual fence design makes the most sense. But she said
the undertaking is necessary as much to thwart terrorism and organized crime at
the border as to foil illegal immigrants looking for work, if not more so.

"There are a lot of questions about the technology, but there is still a
strategic interest in the project," Ginsburg said.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials say they are ready to try again.

On Monday, U.S. officials began erecting 17 camera and radio towers on a 23-mile
stretch near Tucson, and they expect this summer to add 36 others over 30 miles
near Ajo, Ariz. If testing goes well and DHS approves, plans call for covering
the 320-mile Arizona border by 2012 and the full border with Mexico -- except
for a 200-mile stretch in southwestern Texas where it is difficult to cross and
expensive to monitor -- by 2014.

Bush's five-year, $7.6 billion cost projection has been trimmed to $6.7 billion
because the Texas segment was deferred, said Mark Borkowski, executive director
of DHS's Secure Border Initiative and its technology component, SBInet.

"This is the initiation of the no-kidding, real, SBInet system," Borkowski said.
"We understand this a lot better. We're a lot more sophisticated."

The government has made many changes since a $20 million pilot rushed
off-the-shelf equipment into operation without testing, relied on inadequate
police dispatching software and ignored the input of Border Patrol officers, who
found that radar systems were triggered by rain, satellite communications were
too slow to permit camera operators to track targets by remote control, and
cameras had poor visibility.

Borkowski said DHS has paid $600 million to its prime contractor, Boeing. It is
using new software, radar, cameras and sturdier towers, and has simplified
camera operation and added more thorough testing by Border Patrol officers.

Boeing's three-year contract expires in September, but DHS is likely to seek at
least a one-year extension while it reviews whether to change contracting
strategies, Borkowski said.

The goal of SBInet is to enable the Border Patrol to detect 70 to 85 percent of
incursions. Technology may help the Border Patrol to control the border with
22,000 to 25,000 officers, fewer than the 27,000 once estimated, he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; The Washington Post; This 98-foot mobile sensor tower south of
Tucson was erected two years ago as part of a Bush administration surveillance
technology pilot project.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

An Approach to Illegal Migrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 114 words


I agree with E.J. Dionne Jr. ["Buying Time on Immigration," op-ed, May 4] that
the presence of so many illegal migrants in the United States without
enforceable rights undermines the rights of everyone else. What I don't agree
with is his assertion that "long-term" residence somehow entitles them to U.S.
citizenship.

With unemployment continuing to rise and public services  under great strain,
now is not the time to take on  millions of low-skilled workers,  and their
spouses and children.

The only immigration reform that President Obama should be considering in this
economy is comprehensively enforcing existing laws against the hiring of illegal
aliens.

C. PAUL MENDEZ

Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Around the Nation

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 514 words

Atlanta Courthouse Gunman Is Convicted of Murder

 ATLANTA -- A man who went on a courthouse shooting spree during his 2005 rape
trial, killing a judge and three other people, was convicted of murder Friday.

Brian Nichols, 36, could face the death penalty for killing a judge, a court
reporter, a sheriff's deputy and a federal agent.

Nichols had confessed to the 2005 killings but claimed he was legally insane and
gripped by a delusional compulsion that he was a slave rebelling against
authority. Jurors rejected that argument, finding him guilty of murder and
dozens of other charges, including aggravated assault, false imprisonment,
hijacking a motor vehicle and armed robbery.

During the six-week trial, Nichols's attorneys and a psychologist said phone
conversations while he was in jail were evidence of his delusions.

In closing arguments Wednesday, prosecutors said Nichols concocted his delusions
to avoid capital punishment.

Obama's Aunt in Boston To Fight Deportation Order

 BOSTON -- President-elect Barack Obama's aunt intends to fight a deportation
order and hopes to remain in the United States, her immigration lawyer said.

Zeituni Onyango, 56, is staying with relatives in Cleveland after fleeing her
public housing apartment in Boston. She had been living there for five years.
Onyango, Obama's father's half sister, was ordered to leave the country in 2004
by an immigration judge who rejected her request for asylum from her native
Kenya.

Cleveland lawyer Margaret Wong said she is exploring legal options and may file
a motion to reopen Onyango's case or file an appeal for her to stay on
humanitarian grounds. She would not discuss Onyango's reasons for seeking
asylum.

"President-elect Obama does not know the details of Ms. Onyango's legal
situation, but as stated previously, he expects that all outstanding issues
would be resolved through the appropriate legal process," said Ben LaBolt, a
spokesman for Obama.

Little Jail Time in Tenn. Shooting

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -- A Tennessee man convicted in the fatal shooting of his
teacher wife's student lover will spend 47 more days in jail, followed by 12
years on probation, a judge ruled. Eric McLean, 33, faced life in prison when he
was tried for murder in the 2007 slaying of 18-year-old Sean Powell, the lover
of his then-wife, Erin McLean. But a Knox County jury in September convicted him
of the lesser charge of reckless homicide.

Life Sentence in Fla. School Killing

MIAMI -- A Miami teenager was sentenced to life in prison without parole for
killing his best friend, who was stabbed 42 times and left to bleed to death in
a middle-school bathroom four years ago. A judge imposed the mandatory sentence
under Florida law of life without parole on Michael Hernandez, 18. A jury
convicted Hernandez in September of murder in the 2004 killing of Jaime Gough
when both were 14. Hernandez claimed he was not guilty because of insanity, but
he was ruled competent to stand trial. Hernandez once said he wanted to become a
serial killer and wrote out a list of potential victims, including his sister.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

VIRGINIA BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 621 words

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Police Say Rape Suspect Is Illegal Immigrant

A Manassas man who is in the country illegally has been charged with raping a
developmentally disabled woman, Prince William County police said yesterday.

Brayan Migdanio Bustillo Fuentes, originally from Honduras, was arrested Monday,
police said. His alleged victim, 24, had gone for a walk without her family's
knowledge about 1 p.m. that day in the 9900 block of Portsmouth Road in the
Manassas area. When she passed Fuentes's house, police said, he allegedly lured
her onto the property and raped her.

Fuentes knew the woman, police said, and was aware of her disability. He is
being held without bond and is due in court Feb. 10. In Prince William, police
investigate the residency status of every person arrested.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

VIRGINIA TECH

Documents Are Released Online To Shooting Victims and Families

Virginia Tech made more than 13,700 pages of documents available yesterday to
the victims and the families of victims of the April 2007 campus shootings.

Families will access the electronic archive via the Internet through special
passwords. The archive, which contains never-before-released e-mails, will
become available to the general public online in February, university officials
said.

The families have been asking for a full accounting of what happened before,
during and after student Seung Hui Cho fatally shot 32 students and instructors.
Families pushed the university to create the archive within six months of
signing an $11 million settlement agreement June 17. The archive includes a
restricted section with private information unique to each victim; the
information is protected by privacy laws and therefore is accessible only to
that victim or victim's family.

-- Brigid Schulte

FAIRFAX COUNTY

Fired Iraq Security Workers Are Awarded New Trial

The Virginia Supreme Court has ruled that two former soldiers must receive a new
trial in Fairfax County after a jury rejected their claim that they were
wrongfully fired by a private security contractor when they reported allegations
that a colleague had shot indiscriminately at civilians in Iraq.

Shane Schmidt and Charles L. Sheppard III had sued Herndon-based Triple Canopy
for wrongful termination in 2006. They claimed that they saw fellow employee
Jacob Washbourn shooting into civilian vehicles without provocation and reported
what they witnessed, and that Triple Canopy fired them. The suit alleged that
their termination violated a state law requiring the reporting of criminal
activity.

The Supreme Court ruled Friday that the jury instructions given by Fairfax
Circuit Court Judge Jonathan C. Thacher were conflicting: One correctly stated
the law, one didn't. The court sent the case back to Fairfax for retrial.

-- Tom Jackman

RICHMOND

Communications Chief Quits Governor's Staff

Delacey Skinner, who has served as Gov. Timothy M. Kaine's communications
director since he took office in 2006, will leave the administration at the end
of the month.

Skinner said she is considering a number of opportunities and confirmed that she
has been in discussions with aides to Terry McAuliffe, who is considering
running for governor.

Kaine (D) is expected to name a new communications director before the General
Assembly session begins Jan. 14.

-- Tim Craig

U.S. HOUSE

Judges Confirm Defeat Of Rep. Virgil Goode Jr.

After a recount, a three-judge panel in Albemarle County confirmed yesterday
that Democrat Tom Perriello defeated Rep. Virgil H. Goode Jr. (R) in the 5th
District election.

The final result showed Perriello with a 727-vote margin of victory. Goode
conceded. Democrats now control Virginia's U.S. House delegation for the first
time in nearly a decade.

-- Anita Kumar

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

MARYLAND BRIEFING

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 675 words

MONTGOMERY COUNTY

Co-Owner of Restaurant Is Sentenced to 3 Years

A businessman who employed illegal immigrants in his family's Wheaton restaurant
was sentenced yesterday to three years in prison, federal prosecutors said.

Francisco C. Solano, 57, who was co-owner El Pollo Rico on Ennalls Avenue,
pleaded guilty this year to charges that he conspired to harbor immigrants,
conspired to commit money laundering and arranged his bank transactions to avoid
having to report them.

The Germantown resident received the longest sentence of the four defendants in
the case, including his wife, Ines Hoyos-Solano. She pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit money laundering and was sentenced to four months of home
detention.

Francisco Solano concealed illegal immigrants in Maryland homes and businesses
he and his wife owned, paying them in cash for their work and accepting only
cash for their rent, according to a plea agreement filed at U.S. District Court
in Greenbelt.

-- Henri E. Cauvin

Car Hits, Seriously Injures Mother and Daughter

A mother and her 13-year-old daughter were seriously injured Tuesday  afternoon
when they were struck by a car while crossing a road in Aspen Hill, authorities
said yesterday.

Montgomery County police said Cristina L. Dodd, 49, of Silver Spring and her
daughter, Natalia Jallorina of Rockville, were hit while walking across Bel Pre
Road at Connecticut Avenue. The westbound car fled the scene, authorities said.

Dodd was taken to Suburban Hospital, where she was in critical condition with
potentially life-threatening injuries. Natalia was taken to Children's National
Medical Center in serious condition and is expected to survive. The crash
occurred shortly after 4 p.m., police said.

Authorities recovered a Ford Mustang thought to be involved in the crash. The
Mustang, they said, was discovered on fire in the 13900 block of Castle
Boulevard about 8:25 p.m. Tuesday.

Lucille Baur, a police spokeswoman, declined to identify the owner of the car.

-- Matt Zapotosky

Man Gets $3.6 Million in Vt. Church Abuse Case

A Vermont jury awarded a former altar boy from Takoma Park nearly $3.6 million
yesterday because the Roman Catholic Diocese of Burlington didn't protect him
from an abusive priest in the 1970s.

After the verdict against the diocese was returned, David Navari, 43, proposed
that it put photos of priests credibly charged with abuse on its Web site,
defrock them and stop paying their retirement. If the diocese does so, he said,
"I will take all the award money from this case and put it into a trust for
needy parents to send their kids to Catholic schools in the Burlington area."

Navari said that when he was a boy, he was groped on two occasions by former
Vermont priest Edward Paquette, who was not on trial. Navari said that the
diocese failed to protect him from Paquette and that church officials knew of
sexual abuse allegations against the priest.

Burlington Bishop Salvatore Matano apologized for the abuse and said church
attorneys would be willing to hear more about Navari's offer to give the money
to Catholic schoolchildren.

The jury awarded $192,500 in compensation and $3.4 million in punitive damages.

-- Associated Press

GOVERNMENT

Suspicious Envelope Is Found at State Building

The FBI is investigating a suspicious envelope found in a state building about a
block from Maryland's State House.

The executive protection division of the Maryland State Police was called to the
mail room of the Jeffrey Building about 10 a.m. yesterday after mailroom staff
members decided the envelope seemed suspicious.

FBI Baltimore field office spokesman Richard J. Wolf said the business-size
envelope was addressed to former governor Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. The Department
of Health and Mental Hygiene is testing the material in the envelope and will
hand it over to the FBI, Wolf said.

Suspicious packages have been sent to 40 governors' offices. Some have also been
sent to National Guard bureaus and reserve facilities in 36 states. The FBI is
investigating these and similar incidents.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 26, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Virginia Briefing

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 430 words

U.S. DISTRICT COURT

Man Admits Harboring Immigrants

A Falls Church man has pleaded guilty to harboring illegal immigrants from
Indonesia, keeping as many as 11 in his basement, federal prosecutors said.

Soripada Lubis, an Indonesian native and naturalized U.S. citizen, entered his
plea yesterday to harboring illegal immigrants for commercial advantage and
private financial gain. He is scheduled to be sentenced May 15.

His wife, Siti Chadidjah Siregar, a citizen of Indonesia, pleaded guilty to
making false statements to federal agents.

According to documents filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, the couple
had kept the Indonesian women in their basement since 2000. The women would work
as live-in housekeepers for families in Potomac.

On weekends, they lived in Lubis and Siregar's basement, sometimes sleeping
three to a bed. Lubis and Siregar charged the women rent, transportation and
fees ostensibly for taxes and to send money to Indonesia.

-- Associated Press

FAIRFAX COUNTY

Man Killed by Train Identified

A man who was killed after he apparently stepped in front of a train in southern
Fairfax County on Tuesday morning was identified by police yesterday as Michael
Sheppard, 48, of the Lorton area.

Police said Sheppard, of the 8400 block of Wasdale Head Drive, was standing
alongside the tracks near Lorton and Gunston Cove roads about 11:44 a.m. when
the operator of a southbound Amtrak train spotted him and sounded his horn.
Sheppard stepped onto the tracks and then turned and faced the train as the
operator tried in vain to stop in time, police said.

Sheppard died at the scene. No one was hurt on the train, which was traveling
from New York to Charlotte. Sheppard was wearing a United Parcel Service
uniform, and Fairfax police said he was a UPS employee. Officer Eddy Azcarate
said police had not determined why Sheppard stepped in front of the train.

-- Tom Jackman

 HOUSE OF DELEGATES

Fake VRE Tickets Are Targeted

The House of Delegates approved legislation yesterday that would make it illegal
to use counterfeit tickets to ride Virginia Railway Express.

The bill, which previously passed the Senate, now heads to Gov. Timothy M. Kaine
(D) for his signature. Sen. Linda D. "Toddy" Puller (D-Fairfax) sponsored the
bill, which would make it illegal for people to produce and use a fake ticket on
the commuter rail service. Violators would face up to six months in jail and a
fine of up to $1,000.

VRE spokesman Mark Roeber said an estimated 35 people were discovered with
fraudulent tickets last year, costing the company almost $116,000.

-- Jennifer Buske

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

The Harm Elaine Chao Did

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 155 words


The profile of Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao [In the Loop, Dec. 25] could have
noted a major policy change by the Labor Department on Dec. 18 that revealed Ms.
Chao's extreme ideological motivation and callousness toward the less fortunate.

Extensive new regulations under the H-2A agricultural guest-worker program take
effect Jan. 17.  Employers will be permitted to bring in foreign workers on
work visas  for lower wages and fewer benefits, with less obligation to recruit
U.S. workers first and with less government oversight in a program already rife
with abuse.

Ms. Chao's devotion to deregulation blinded her to 65 years of lessons under
agricultural guest-worker programs and to a bipartisan, labor-management
agreement in Congress, known as "AgJOBS," that would address these issues  with
balance.  Her legacy is one of harm to the nation's lowest-paid workers.

BRUCE GOLDSTEIN

Executive Director, Farmworker Justice

Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Virginia Briefing

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 700 words

IMMIGRATION

Visa Fraud Operation Cracked

Federal immigration officials have charged 22 individuals in connection with a
"massive" visa fraud operation in the Virginia Beach area that brought hundreds
of foreign workers into the country, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
announced yesterday.

The suspects include U.S. citizens as well as foreign nationals, many of whom
are natives of Belarus and other Eastern European nations.

They face 74 criminal counts, including visa and asylum fraud, marriage fraud,
making fraudulent statements under oath, and filing fraudulent documents to
obtain foreign labor visas.

According to ICE, the operation used legitimate work permit visa applications on
behalf of hotels and businesses to bring in far more foreign workers than
needed, then shielded those workers from detection for financial gain.

Officials said the ring had been operating since March 2001.

The U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the Internal Revenue Service, the Naval
Criminal Intelligence Service and several other federal agencies were also
involved in the investigation.

-- Nick Miroff

PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY

Woman Shoots Reported Intruder

A Dumfries woman shot one of three men who she told police were trying to break
in to her house yesterday morning, Prince William County police said.

The 47-year-old woman, whose name was not released, was home sick when she heard
her house alarm sound about 10:20 a.m., police said. She grabbed her handgun,
went to the basement and observed three men trying to break in. Two of the men
fled, but one turned toward her and approached her, prompting her to shoot him
in the chest, police said.

Two suspects were located near the house, including one with life-threatening
injuries who was flown to a hospital, police said. The second suspect is being
interviewed, and a third is at large. No charges have been filed, and the
investigation is ongoing.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

Son Pleads Guilty in Man's Death

A Prince William County Circuit Court jury could not decide Tuesday on a
sentence for a 23-year-old man convicted of involuntary manslaughter in his
father's death, prompting a judge to rule the case a mistrial. Instead of
seeking another trial, defendant Ryan Stephenson then pleaded guilty to the
charge.

Stephenson, of the Manassas area, was charged in the July 1 death of James
Stephenson, 46. He testified that he got his father in a headlock after the two
came to blows over the son's behavior and failure to mow the lawn. Ryan
Stephenson called 911 after his father fell lifeless in his arms. He is to be
sentenced by a judge April 23 and faces up to 10 years in prison.

-- Jonathan Mummolo

RICHMOND

McDonnell Seeks Election Law Change

Virginia Attorney General Robert F. McDonnell yesterday proposed numerous
election law changes to reduce long lines at polls, add workers to count ballots
and improve voter registration lists.

In his legislative agenda, the Republican gubernatorial candidate also seeks a
tax credit for purchases of school supplies, tighter regulation of mortgage
brokers and lenders, a ban on sale of recalled products and a crackdown on price
gouging.

-- Anita Kumar

VIRGINIA BEACH

Boat Capsizes in Bay, Killing Two

An 18-foot aluminum boat capsized yesterday in the Chesapeake Bay off Virginia
Beach, killing two people aboard and sending four others to hospitals, police
said.

A Virginia Beach police spokesman said the six boaters, whom authorities have
not identified, departed from the Lynnhaven Boat Ramp and Beach House and phoned
in a distress call to the Coast Guard shortly before 9 a.m.

A helicopter crew rescued two of them, and the others were recovered by boat, a
Coast Guard spokesman said.

-- Associated Press

LOUISA COUNTY

Priest Sentenced for Embezzling Funds

A suspended Roman Catholic priest who embezzled $432,000 from two rural parishes
was sentenced yesterday to 13 years in prison.

The Rev. Rodney L. Rodis, 52, will serve the state prison term after he has
completed a five-year federal sentence. Louisa Circuit Court Judge Timothy K.
Sanner sentenced Rodis to the maximum term of 200 years and suspended all but 13
years. A jury convicted Rodis on 10 embezzlement counts in October.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Putting American Workers First

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 205 words


In response to the March 2 editorial "A Wall Built with Visas," opposing our
guest-worker provision in the Economic Recovery Act, we want to ensure that
readers receive a fair analysis.

During the past several months, the largest banks in this country have announced
100,000 job cuts. Reportedly, those same banks requested H-1B visas for more
than 21,000 foreign guest workers over the past six years.

Just who is this "top talent from overseas"? Most of  it is junior investment
analysts, human resource specialists, corporate lawyers and vice presidents.
These are hardly the specialized, high-tech jobs envisioned by the  H-1B visa
program.

With many thousands of financial services workers unemployed, it's absurd to
claim that banks can't find top-notch American workers to perform these jobs.
Nothing in our provision takes away the ability of these banks to hire H-1B
guest workers;  we simply ask that those taking American taxpayer funds give
priority to qualified Americans and not replace laid-off American workers with
temporary guest workers.

With unemployment rising, why shouldn't we demand that our money be invested in
American workers?

BERNIE SANDERS

U.S. Senator (I-Vt.)

CHARLES GRASSLEY

U.S. Senator (R-Iowa)

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 2, 2009 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                Regional Edition

A Wall Built With Visas;
How a move to protect American workers could instead cost U.S. jobs

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 384 words


THE ECONOMIC stimulus package signed into law last week by President Obama
contains a provision antithetical to innovation and domestic prosperity. That
provision makes it even harder -- some say impossible -- for companies that
receive government bailout money to hire foreign employees for specialized work.

The chief sponsors of the initiative, Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) and
Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.), say that they are concerned about the plight of
laid-off Americans. And they are rightly critical of companies that abuse the
H1-B visa -- meant for highly skilled foreign workers in specialized fields --
to hire low-skilled workers who accept a fraction of the pay commanded by
Americans. Those employers should be and are being held legally accountable;
last month, executives of a company in Mr. Grassley's home state were indicted
in connection with fraudulent H1-B applications.

But erecting even more hurdles to the already rigorous H1-B hiring process could
backfire in more ways than one. Even before the Grassley-Sanders proposal,
companies had to make a case that a would-be foreign hire had unique skills or
expertise that made him the best candidate for the job. The stimulus provision
would add to the hoops companies have to jump through. For example, a company
that accepted bailout dollars would be prohibited from hiring a foreign worker
within 90 days of a layoff -- even if the foreign worker is not a candidate for
a vacancy created by that layoff. The company would have to certify that it made
a "good faith" effort to hire an American for the position and that it
considered training a U.S. worker to fill the spot. The new requirements would
expire in two years.

Shutting out top talent from overseas will do nothing to help the U.S. economy
or American workers. Making it harder for U.S. companies to hire the best and
brightest when they are most in need of cutting-edge technology and true
innovation is nonsensical. Such a move would discourage bright foreign students
from elite universities from even seeking jobs here; that is a loss to the
students, their prospective employers and to the country. Companies who see
their opportunities to hire such students evaporate may outsource even more
jobs, especially those that can be done on a virtual or consulting basis.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2009 Friday



CORRECTION: The March 2 editorial "A Wall Built With Visas" incorrectly stated
that foreign workers must have "unique skills" to be hired under the  H-1B visa
program; the law requires in most instances only that they hold job-appropriate
college degrees. The editorial also erred in reporting that firms that accept
federal bailout funds may not hire foreign workers within 90 days of a layoff.
In fact, they may not displace a U.S. worker within 90 days of an  H-1B filing
on behalf of a foreign worker tapped for an equivalent position.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 6, 2009 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Corrections

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 134 words


The March 2 editorial "A Wall Built With Visas" incorrectly stated that foreign
workers must have "unique skills" to be hired under the  H-1B visa program; the
law requires in most instances only that they hold job-appropriate college
degrees. The editorial also erred in reporting that firms that accept federal
bailout funds may not hire foreign workers within 90 days of a layoff. In fact,
they may not displace a U.S. worker within 90 days of an  H-1B filing on behalf
of a foreign worker tapped for an equivalent position.

--

The March 5 editorial "Worth More Than Money" misstated how many D.C. police
officers' and teachers' jobs could be funded with the money the District will
save in borrowing costs as a result of its triple-A bond rating. The correct
number is 100 police officers and 111 teachers.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 13, 2009 Friday
                                Regional Edition

A Visa Program Harms U.S. Workers

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 125 words


The March 2 editorial "A Wall Built With Visas," on H-1B visas, was  incorrect
in stating:  "Even before the Grassley-Sanders proposal, companies had to make a
case that a would-be foreign hire had  . . . expertise that made him the best
candidate for the job." There are no protections for Americans against
discrimination in the H-1B program. That's why the Grassley-Sanders amendment
was adopted.

Employers are  free to use the visa program to replace U.S. workers with foreign
workers. Employers will often be able to cut their payroll costs by using this
program to replace older, higher-earning American employees with younger foreign
workers at starting wages.

JACK MARTIN

Special Projects Director

Federation for

American Immigration Reform

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 6, 2009 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Visa Limits Hit Indian Workers;
Job Offers Rescinded or Hard to Come By

BYLINE: Emily Wax; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1298 words

DATELINE: MUMBAI


With his master's degree in electrical engineering at North Carolina State
University almost complete, Ravi, 24, received a promising job offer from a
technology firm. He called his parents back in India, happy that he was on track
for an H-1B work visa, which is seen as a steppingstone to U.S. citizenship.

But just before Thanksgiving, Ravi got a call from his future employer.

"They told me that because of the economic downturn they couldn't hire me in
anticipation of tougher times ahead. They were laying off other American
employees, and cutting my job would be a proactive measure," said Ravi, who gave
only his first name because he did not want his job prospects affected. "I do
feel bad for anyone losing a job, whether it's an American or an H-1B foreign
worker. But for foreign students, if we don't get a job, we have to go back to
our home countries. When I talk to my parents, they tell me not to worry, to
just come home. But I had really hoped to stay."

As the U.S. economy slows, highly skilled foreign professionals seeking work
under various visa programs are finding it harder to get jobs. President Obama's
stimulus package stops U.S. companies, largely in banking and financial
services, that take federal bailout money from hiring H-1B visa holders for two
years if they have laid off American workers in the previous six months. The
administration has vowed to tighten restrictions and step up oversight of all
work visa applications.

The H-1B program brings in about 85,000 skilled foreign workers every year,
ostensibly to fill jobs that U.S. workers cannot or will not do. But some
companies in the science and technology fields, afraid of a backlash over hiring
foreign professionals rather than American ones, are rescinding job offers.
Analysts say it is part of a wave of mounting anger in the United States over
work visas, especially at a time when more than half a million Americans are
being laid off every month.

"Hiring H-1B visa holders has become as toxic as giving out corporate bonuses,"
said Vivek Wadhwa, a Duke University professor and Harvard University research
fellow.

The United States is not the only nation making it more difficult for foreigners
to get work. Persian Gulf countries have reduced the number of work visas they
offer, forcing unemployed Indians to return home. Britain has begun to review
its immigration policies to determine whether there should be more restrictions
on the types of workers who can obtain visas.

"This is part of the broader story of the unwinding of globalization in the
current economic crisis. As goods have moved more freely around the world, so
did people, but now that's ending," said Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the
Washington-based Council on Foreign Relations and author of the book "The
Closing of the American Border: Terrorism, Immigration and Security Since 9/11."

The stimulus bill contained the Employ American Workers Act, which was sponsored
by Sens. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) and Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.). They say that
they are worried that laid-off Americans struggling to find work are being
displaced by foreign junior investment analysts, computer programmers and
corporate lawyers who accept a fraction of the pay commanded by Americans.

"This H-1B program is a sweetheart deal for employers, in many instances, to be
able to gain cheap labor from abroad," Sanders, the son of a Polish immigrant,
said in a telephone interview. "Immigration made this country great. But ask
those American laid-off workers if they want $40,000-a-year engineers from
Russia or India taking the place of an American engineer who would earn $80,000
a year. I don't think anyone is going to tell me with a straight face that they
can't find some of that American talent right here on the unemployment lines."

During the past several months, the largest banks in the United States have
announced 100,000 job cuts, Sanders said. Those same banks, which are receiving
$150 billion in a taxpayer-funded bailout package, requested visas for more than
21,800 foreign workers over the past six years for positions such as senior vice
presidents, corporate lawyers and human resources specialists, Sanders said,
citing an Associated Press review of visa applications that the banks filed with
the Labor Department.

As the economy worsened last year and employees were laid off, the number of
visas sought by the dozen banks in the AP analysis increased by nearly a third,
from 3,258 in fiscal 2007 to 4,163 in fiscal 2008.

More than 5 million jobs have been lost since the U.S. economy fell into
recession more than a year ago, according to the Labor Department.

But many immigration experts say shutting out the talent from abroad will only
hurt U.S. competitiveness in the long run. "It's really unfortunate because we
will lose an entire generation of wonderful minds as a by-product," Wadhwa said.
"The next Google or Silicon Valley will be in Bangalore or Beijing."

Nations such as Canada, Singapore and Australia have created "fast-track"
immigration policies and incentives to attract foreign professionals.

Immigrants founded more than half of all Silicon Valley start-ups in the past
decade, Wadhwa said. These immigrant-led, U.S. technology companies employed
more than 450,000 workers and grossed $52 billion in 2005.

"My view is that we need to always bring in the best talent from everywhere --
more skilled and educated people end up creating jobs and making the pie bigger
for everyone," Wadhwa said.

Roughly 2 million nonresident Indians, or NRIs, as they are known here, live in
the United States, according to the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs in New
Delhi. Worldwide, NRIs send home more than $30 billion a year, making up about 3
percent of India's gross domestic product, the International Labor Organization
estimates.

With elections across India this month and next, political parties have rallied
around the new restrictions on H-1B visas, mobilizing the Indian diaspora to
lobby U.S. lawmakers, calling on India's government to intervene and threatening
to boycott some American products.

"Truth is that most American companies appointed young Indian talent because
they got better work from Indian professionals at a lower cost," said Swami
Vigyananand, spokesman for the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which is aligned with the
Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party. "Now it is time for extending help to
Indian talents who made America rich and prosperous. It's protectionist, and
it's discriminatory. They want to throw Indian students out like a can of Coke."

Last month, a delegation from the Confederation of Indian Industry, one of
India's largest business groups, visited Washington to plead the case for the
H-1B visa program. That comes after members of India's National Association of
Software and Service Companies met with Grassley and called the H-1B hiring
restrictions "extremely worrying."

Meanwhile, more foreign students at Ravi's school, where he is a member of the
Hindu Students Council, are sharing their stories with one another. They are
reluctant to publicize their plight, for two reasons: They fear that most
Americans are unsympathetic to their predicament, and many do not want their
family and friends in India to know that their dream of sharing in America's
prosperity has gone bust. Lives have been disrupted, and some students said they
were under tremendous stress to pay back education loans. Ravi, for instance,
has $10,000 in loans.

"The U.S. has benefited from the minds of young Indians. And our generation has
benefited because America has welcomed us and we have learned so much here,"
said Himanshu Dev, president of the council. "But now the H-1B has become a
distant dream."

Staff researcher Robert Thomason in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2009 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. Visa Delays Distress Scientists;
Skilled Foreign Workers in 'Sensitive' Fields Are Left in Limbo

BYLINE: Emily Wax; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


When Surojit Sarkar got a call that his father had suffered a paralyzing stroke,
he packed a small suitcase, kissed his wife and 10-month-old daughter, and
rushed to the airport for the first leg of his flight from Atlanta to India.
Sarkar, an only child, wanted to be by his father's bedside, prepared for the
worst.

Sarkar thought he would be in New Delhi for just a few weeks. Now, more than
three months later, his father is in physical therapy, but Sarkar is still here,
trapped in administrative limbo over his U.S. work visa status. He says consular
agents flagged his visa renewal application for security reasons.

Sarkar is one of thousands of highly skilled scientists, professors and
technology workers from Beijing to Belarus who have been stranded in their home
countries in recent months, upsetting their lives, their jobs and their
children's schooling. Many wonder whether the United States still wants its
foreign scientists.

"When I said I have a PhD and worked with vaccines, the visa officer abruptly
stopped what he was doing. I must have uttered a keyword for some security
threat," said Sarkar, 36, a U.S.-educated scientist who works on HIV vaccines at
Emory University's School of Medicine. He is a legal immigrant and has been a
U.S. taxpayer for more than a decade. "I totally understand the need for careful
screening of visa applicants for protecting the nation. But I just want to go
back to my family and my research. I've already missed my only daughter's first
steps and her first birthday."

Delays have increased because of rising demand for U.S. visas all over the
world, said David Donahue, deputy assistant secretary of state for visa
services.

The middle class is growing rapidly in India, China, Mexico and Brazil; as more
people are able to travel and study abroad, the average wait for a U.S. visa has
risen to about three months, Donahue said. His office does not publicize the
total number of visa applicants being screened for security reasons. But several
thousand have joined a Facebook support group about the issue.

"We have now hired additional staff, and wait times are starting to fall. We
hope to have wait times for cases requiring processing down to about four to six
weeks by the end of summer. But we completely understand the concerns," Donahue
said in a telephone interview. "We know it's really difficult when you've been
in a job, have a family and rent."

For scientists such as Sarkar, the problems began when the United States stepped
up security checks after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, especially for those
working in scientific and technological fields that the government deems "highly
sensitive." Wait times initially spiked but dipped after about a year.

Aman Kapoor of ImmigrationVoice.com, a nonprofit organization, said the increase
in wait times is making it tougher for some of the world's smartest and
best-educated scientists to work and live in the United States.

"These are top scientists and engineers," he said. "Ultimately, all of these
delays only hurt the U.S economy."

Over fresh lime sodas and thick folders containing their legal documents, more
than 25 stranded scientists and technology workers recently gathered to share
stories of being put on unpaid leave or of missing medical treatments and
business meetings.

Deepika Mohan's 11-year-old son missed so much school waiting for her visa
situation to clear that he was set back a year. Mohan works outside Boston,
inventing medical diagnostic instruments.

"My son has been sitting idle for four months," she said, her voice cracking.
She and her family recently obtained their visas. But her son, who had not
enrolled in an Indian school because the family did not know how long it would
be stranded, lost the year of school.

Although their employers are anxious to get them back to work, Sarkar and others
said, they will not wait forever, especially in a strained economic climate. "I
have lived most of my adult life in the U.S., and now that feels like home to
me," Sarkar said. "I feel stranded here without even a driver's license and a
bank account. If I lose my job, that's another house in foreclosure."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Emily Wax -- The Washington Post; Scientists Sanjeev Mathur,
left, wife Deepika Mohan and Surojit Sarkar faced long waits for their work
visas when they came home to India to see family.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 7, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigration to Go Paperless;
Agency Plans Electronic Overhaul of Case-Management System

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 705 words


The Bush administration has launched a major overhaul of the nation's
immigration services agency, selecting an industry consortium led by IBM to
reinvent how the government handles about 7 million applications each year for
visas, citizenship and approval to work in the United States, officials
announced yesterday.

If successful, the five-year, $500 million effort to convert U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services' case-management system from paper-based to electronic
could reduce backlogs and processing delays by at least 20 percent, and possibly
more than 50 percent, people close to the project said. Those problems have long
frustrated new Americans and other immigrants.

The new system would allow government agencies, from the Border Patrol to the
FBI to the Labor Department, to access immigration records faster and more
accurately. In combination with initiatives to link digital fingerprint scans to
unique identification numbers, it would create a lifelong digital record for
applicants. It also would eliminate the need for time- and labor-intensive
filing and refiling of paper forms, which are stored at 200 locations in 70
million manila file folders.

Known internally as the transformation initiative, the long-awaited and
much-delayed effort is considered a cornerstone of any broader effort to fix an
immigration system considered one of the most broken bureaucracies in the
federal government.

If Congress were to overhaul immigration laws, by creating a guest-worker
program or allowing illegal immigrants to gain legal status, for example, U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) expects it would have to make even
greater changes. The agency suggested to potential contractors during last
year's immigration debate that $3.5 billion worth of work might be required,
officials said.

The case-management system "is going to transform the way USCIS and its
predecessors have done business for the last 50 years, and the success or
failure of this venture will determine the effectiveness" of any future
immigration overhaul, said Prakash Khatri, a homeland security consultant at KPK
Global Solutions. Khatri served as the immigration agency's ombudsman for the
Department of Homeland Security from 2003 through February of this year.

Acting USCIS Director Jonathan "Jock" Scharfen announced that International
Business Machines Corp. was selected over rivals CSC and Accenture to serve as a
"solutions architect" for the $2.6 billion-a-year agency, which employs 10,700
government workers and 8,000 contractors at 200 locations nationwide.

The contract, awarded this week and the largest federal homeland security bid on
the market, includes a $14.5 million, 90-day assessment period with options over
five years worth $491.1 million.

The agency in a statement called the initial task order "just one of the
building blocks of USCIS' overall transformation plan." That plan is being
funded with the help of a summer 2007 fee increase on immigrant applicants,
which freed up roughly $650 million over five years, said Scharfen's acting
deputy, Mike Aytes.

Government investigators have reported that the agency's pre-computer-age paper
filing system incurs $100 million a year in archiving, storage, retrieval and
shipping costs; has led to the loss or misplacement of more than 100,000 files;
and has contributed to backlogs and delays for millions of cases.

Modernization efforts, proposed in 1999, have been delayed by funding problems,
inertia, post-Sept. 11 security demands and reorganization triggered by the
creation of the Homeland Security Department. The department's inspector general
in 2007 faulted the agency for being "entrenched in a cycle of continual
planning, with little progress."

Analysts said USCIS moved carefully in the past two years to structure the
project to avoid flaws that derailed other major Homeland Security contracts,
including SBInet, a Customs and Border Protection effort with Boeing to build a
"virtual" border fence using surveillance technology, and Deepwater, the Coast
Guard's massive fleet-replacement effort with Lockheed Martin and Northrop
Grumman.

"We're proud of 2008 and the milestones we've met," Scharfen said in a
statement. "But, much work remains."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 15, 2008 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

New Immigration Regulation Eased After Firms Complain;
Homeland Security Measure Requires Checks of New Hires

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 960 words


In a concession to business groups, the Homeland Security Department will
significantly scale back its planned crackdown this winter on federal
contractors that hire illegal immigrants.

Under a rule published yesterday, the agency said only contractors that do more
than $100,000 in federal work will be required to use an electronic government
system to check the work documents of new hires. Originally, officials had
proposed that companies doing $3,000 in federal work must comply.

The agency also said it would require federal contractors to check only laborers
used on specific contracts, instead of their entire workforce.

The revisions significantly reduce the number of companies that will be subject
to the program, which will apply to federal contracts and solicitations issued
after Jan. 15. The Bush administration had hoped to make the work eligibility
system, called E-Verify, mandatory for nearly 200,000 government contractors,
covering about 4 million U.S. workers over 10 years.

The government did not say how many companies would be exempted, but stated that
it awarded 2.8 million new contracts last year at or below the $100,000
threshold. The contracts, mostly set-asides for small businesses, were worth $9
billion, or less than 3 percent of federal obligations.

In any case, the program will usher in a new degree of employee scrutiny in a
wide swath of corporate America that does federal business, including industrial
giants with household names such as General Electric, Lockheed-Martin and
Boeing, as well as Beltway mainstays such as computer services firms CACI,
ManTech International and SRA International.

The change came after months of intense lobbying by business groups, which
argued that the requirement singled out contractors, was unduly burdensome and
was so big that it would overwhelm the government system. Randel K. Johnson,
vice president and spokesman for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that the
Bush administration "had been responsive to a substantial amount of business
concerns," particularly by limiting the rule to large contractors, but that the
chamber is reviewing its legal options.

In a statement, the Bush administration said it took into account 1,600 comments
and made changes "designed to lighten the burden on small businesses who decide
to accept federal contracts, and to provide contractors with flexible means of
complying with the basic requirement that all persons working on federal
contracts be electronically verified."

Still, critics accused the lame-duck administration, which has made E-Verify a
centerpiece of its immigration reform effort, of trying to force through the
program before the new Democratic administration takes office.

The proposal "vastly understates the burden imposed on employers, and leaves
unanswered a number of fundamental questions," said Eric Bord, a lawyer at
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius who represents companies facing immigration
investigations.

Mike Aitken, top lobbyist for the Society for Human Resource Management, a trade
association for U.S. hiring managers, said DHS has repeatedly flouted
congressional intent that E-Verify be voluntary, underestimated the program's
costs and made business responsible for enforcing immigration law.

Congress created a worker-verification system in 1996, and participation has
remained voluntary, although 13 state legislatures have passed similar measures
for state contractors.

With E-Verify, human resources officials can use an Internet-based system to
check federal Social Security and immigration databases and determine whether an
employee is authorized to work.

The federal program was expanded nationwide in 2003, with enrollment growing
from 3,000 to 92,000 companies. However, it still covers less than 2 percent of
an estimated 6 million U.S. employers and about 11 percent of annual hiring.

In early June, President Bush proposed doubling the number of companies,
mandating participation by 169,000 federal contractors and requiring them for
the first time to verify the eligibility of existing employees, not just new
hires.

Business groups mobilized in protest. The U.S. chamber said the rule would cost
$10 billion to implement, 100 times the government's estimate.

The Professional Services Council, an Arlington-based trade group for 330
government services contractors, complained that the proposal singles out
federal contractors for greater administrative headaches and potential liability
for discrimination and other lawsuits by workers.

"It was the uncertain process, it was the uncertain liability, it was the
uncertain scalability of the E-Verify system to handle the size and scope of
what the president's executive order was demanding," said Alan Chvotkin, top
lobbyist and counsel for the council. With the changes, "I think we're getting
closer to a system that is executable in practice, rather than just in theory,
but it will remain to be seen whether we will be able to implement this rule."

One concern is database errors. The government acknowledged that the system
initially rejects about 5 percent of workers, which could threaten the jobs of
220,000 contractor employees in coming years. U.S. officials estimate that only
2 percent of legal workers, or about 4,000, who were erroneously rejected will
choose to quit or give up their jobs, rather that correct mistakes.

Though the announced changes will slow E-Verify's expansion, federal officials
stood by their prediction that the initiative will eventually cover more than 20
percent of U.S. hiring, DHS spokeswoman Laura Keehner said.

Grandfathered contracts will eventually expire, Keehner said, and big employers
also may choose under the rule to verify the immigration status of all
employees, not just those working on federal business.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2008 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Across the Spectrum, Praise for Napolitano;
Homeland Security Pick Is Likened to Obama

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1008 words


President-elect Barack Obama's pending selection of Arizona Gov. Janet
Napolitano (D) as secretary of homeland security was greeted yesterday as a sign
that the new Democratic administration will fundamentally change the tone of the
nation's post-Sept. 11 approach to domestic security.

Immigrant advocates, business groups and civil libertarians said that the choice
of a two-term governor from a Republican-friendly border state could lead to a
reversal of policies that they contend unduly punish illegal immigrants,
commerce and Americans' privacy. Agency observers on the right and the left say
that her selection appears to reflect a calculation that she could do so without
appearing weak on terrorism.

In fact, immigration opponents and counterterrorism analysts praised Napolitano.
They said, however, that they think the former federal prosecutor would continue
much of the Bush administration's enforcement-first policies, including border
security enhancements and promoting national standards for identification cards.

In both promising to restore "balance" to what Democrats say has been a
one-sided security debate and seeming to straddle wide political divisions,
Napolitano is much like Obama, both Republican and Democratic observers said.

Napolitano is "someone who's fair. She listens. She understands complex issues,"
said Grant Woods, an Arizona Republican whom Napolitano succeeded as state
attorney general in 1998, and who likened her to Obama. "Most importantly, she's
someone who has excellent judgment."

Jamie S. Gorelick, a deputy attorney general in the Clinton administration,
called Napolitano "the perfect choice," given that no Democrat has run the
troubled and sprawling department since its creation in 2003.

Napolitano "has run a major bureaucracy," Gorelick said, "and the biggest
challenge for the DHS right now is the management challenge of leading nearly
200,000 workers."

If Napolitano, 50, is confirmed, Obama will gain a hardheaded lawyer with a
voracious appetite for work, who picks her way deliberately through difficult
problems.

She graduated from the University of Santa Clara in California and the
University of Virginia Law School before gaining national attention as a lawyer
for Anita Hill in her 1991 sexual harassment case against then-Supreme Court
nominee Clarence Thomas. In 1993, she was acting U.S. attorney pending
confirmation when the Justice Department decided not to prosecute Cindy McCain,
the wife of Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), for stealing prescription drugs from a
nonprofit she ran.

Napolitano also offers a skill set well-suited for DHS secretary, a role that is
a combination of cop, politician, international negotiator and comforter in
chief. She was the first woman to serve as U.S. attorney for Arizona, in 1993,
and state attorney general, in 1998, and was the first Democratic governor to be
elected twice in Republican-leaning Arizona in a quarter-century.

Her selection "bodes well for state and local officials," a U.S. intelligence
official said, acknowledging that Washington has frequently clashed with them
over DHS grant funding, the role of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
innumerable security mandates.

In 2003, Napolitano developed the first state homeland security strategy that
highlighted the role of state and local law enforcement, information-sharing and
law enforcement-led intelligence "fusion centers" for preventing terrorism. Its
themes were later adopted by big-city police chiefs, DHS's own advisory
committee experts and the Bush administration.

On immigration, Napolitano has cultivated an image of toughness, calling for
National Guard troops on the border and signing legislation to punish companies
that hire illegal immigrants. But she has also argued for humane treatment of
such immigrants and for the need to strengthen Arizona's economy.

Groups including the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the National
Council of La Raza, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the Center for Immigration
Studies, which seeks to reduce immigration, praised her yesterday. She "knows
better than anyone how important border security is to our national security,"
said Rep. Brian P. Bilbray (R-Calif.), chairman of the hard-line immigration
reform caucus in Congress.

In Arizona, news of Napolitano's selection was welcomed by both Republicans and
Democrats.

Wes Gullett, a Republican consultant in Arizona, noted that Napolitano won
reelection in 2006 with 63 percent of the vote and GOP support, and chaired the
Democratic Party's 2008 platform drafting committee without controversy. "That
says volumes about her ability to run a tight ship," said Gullett, a former
McCain aide.

State law barred the governor from seeking a third term, and her departure for
the Obama Cabinet would eliminate a potential top-tier Democratic challenger for
McCain in 2010, when the senator is up for reelection.

McCain called to congratulate Napolitano and said in a statement that her
government experience "warrants her rapid confirmation by the Senate, and I hope
she is quickly confirmed."

Arizona Secretary of State Jan Brewer, a Republican, is in line to become
governor, inheriting a GOP-controlled legislature.

On Capitol Hill, members of the Senate homeland security panel were not notified
before Napolitano's emergence as the top choice for the job was reported.
Chairman Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.) did not comment. Ranking Republican Susan
M. Collins (Maine) said only that it is critical for DHS to have "a strong
leader" committed to bipartisanship, adding that she would consider the
nomination carefully.

Still, Napolitano backers appeared confident that she will win confirmation.
Former senator Dennis DeConcini (D-Ariz.), who recommended Napolitano as U.S.
attorney 25 years ago and chaired Lieberman's presidential campaign in Arizona
in 2004, said that when the committee receives her background file, "I can't
imagine anything in there that nobody knows."

Staff writer Carrie Johnson and research editor Alice Crites contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Ethan Miller -- Getty Images; Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano
attended a town hall meeting with Barack Obama at Del Sol High School in Las
Vegas in January.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 23, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Our Shortsighted Border Policy Keeps the Wrong People Out

BYLINE: Edward Alden

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1589 words


The day after the Nov. 4 presidential election, I was chatting with a young
immigrant from Sudan as I waited to do a radio interview. He was gushing over
the election results. "Can you imagine when he puts his hand on the Bible and
says, 'I, Barack Hussein Obama'?" he said, putting the emphasis on the middle
name. "It is amazing."

For many in America's immigrant communities, the election of the son of a Kenyan
father and an American mother represents not so much a healing of America's
racial wounds as a chance to bridge the divide that has opened between the
United States and the rest of the world in the past eight years. Of the many
mistakes we made in the reaction to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, one
of the most damaging was slamming the door on our friends in an ill-considered
effort to keep our enemies out.

Instead of continuing to embrace the massive flow of talent, energy and
initiative that the rest of the world has long offered the United States, we
launched an expensive, futile experiment to see whether we could seal our
borders against the ills of the world, from terrorists to drugs to illegal
migrants. This effort has betrayed both our ideals and our interests. Arizona
Gov. Janet Napolitano, a skilled hand at handling border issues who is widely
believed to be Obama's choice for secretary of homeland security, has a rare
opportunity to get immigration policy back on track -- to improve our security
without sacrificing our openness.

The current system was built in the wake of 9/11, but it will have to be
reformed in the shadow of the economic crisis. That will be a political
challenge, but we have already driven away too many talented immigrants through
short-sighted policies that see them more as a threat than as a windfall for the
U.S. economy. Immigrant numbers will fall during the recession as job
opportunities dwindle, but when the economy recovers, we will find ourselves
competing to get them back.

Napolitano could start her overhaul by considering the case of Imad Daou. Like
the president-elect's father, Daou came to the United States on a student visa.
A Christian from Lebanon, he arrived here in 2003 to study computer science at
Texas A&M International University in Laredo. He fell in love with and became
engaged to a Mexican-American woman, and in November 2003, they crossed the Rio
Grande to visit her family in Mexico and share the news. But when the couple
tried to cross back into Texas, U.S. border officials discovered that Daou had
failed to comply with a rule put in place by John Ashcroft's Justice Department
after 9/11, requiring all young men from Muslim and Arab countries to
re-register with the U.S. government 30 days after arriving in the United
States. Daou was unaware of the requirement.

He was slapped in handcuffs and jailed in Laredo for more than two months before
being deported to Lebanon. The couple was married in the jail before he left,
and a year later, his wife was able to bring him to live with her in Nuevo
Laredo, Mexico, which has been turned into a free-fire zone by warring drug
gangs. Now she crosses the border each day to go to her teaching job in Laredo.
He cannot accompany her; his deportation carried an automatic five-year ban on
reentering the United States, and he would still need a pardon from the U.S.
government before he would be able to return.

Why is this software engineer, now working for a firm in Mexico, being kept out?
Because of a regulation that no longer exists. A year after Daou was deported,
the Department of Homeland Security abolished the re-registration requirement,
saying it had been of no use in identifying terrorists. "They put the rules in
place to catch bad people," Daou told me, "and the good people fall into the
trap." He just heard from Washington last month: It will be at least another
year before his pardon application will even be reviewed.

Daou's story was only one of dozens of similar tales I have heard over the past
several years. In all of them, measures aimed at catching or deterring
terrorists instead trapped those who had, like so many waves of immigrants
before them, followed their dreams and ambitions by coming to America. But they
arrived in a different country.

After the shock of 9/11, the United States confronted a deadly serious
challenge: how to prevent future terrorists from coming here to carry out
further attacks. Many intelligent and overdue initiatives were rolled out, and
they have made the country safer. In place of the fragmented and partial
terrorist "watch lists" used before the 2001 attacks, for instance, the
government has created a single, integrated list available to all front-line
border officials and overseas embassies. DHS now gathers advance information on
all overseas passengers to help identify potential threats before flights land
in the United States. And great strides have been made in improving the security
of identification documents and matching them to an individual's fingerprints so
that terrorists or criminals cannot use false papers to enter the country. These
"smart border" measures have largely been implemented without undue disruption
to legitimate visitors or immigrants to the United States.

But alongside such sensible initiatives, the Bush administration decided to use
immigration laws in far more aggressive and ruthless ways. Few Americans are
aware of the vast powers the government wields here. Border inspectors can comb
the laptop computer files of anyone entering the country, citizen or
non-citizen, merely on suspicion of wrongdoing; ordinary constitutional
protections against unreasonable search and seizure do not apply. Non-Americans
suspected of violating immigration rules can be jailed for months or even years
while their cases grind through immigration courts or while they await
deportation. The government has exercised these powers to their fullest since
9/11.

Such trampling of American ideals is matched only by the damage to our
interests. Openness to immigrants and to foreign students, entrepreneurs and
visitors has long been this country's secret weapon. The world's best and
brightest come to the United States in large numbers to study or work
temporarily, and many end up staying. Early in the campaign, Obama lamented the
post-9/11 decline in visas for foreign students, which he said "used to be one
of the single best public-diplomacy tools in our possession."

No country has matched our ability to attract and inspire the world's talent,
and the U.S. economy has reaped the benefits. While economic downturns
inevitably lead to accusations that foreigners are stealing American jobs, the
reality is that we have long attracted immigrants who innovate, create jobs and
boost our economy. Some 40 percent of all new start-up companies in Silicon
Valley, for instance, are headed by immigrants, according to a 2006 study for
the National Venture Capital Association. But it doesn't take too many stories
of delays, abuses or mistreatment at the hands of U.S. border or immigration
officials to discourage people from coming here, particularly those whose
talents offer them plenty of other options.

Not surprisingly, foreign enrollment at U.S. universities fell after 9/11,
ending more than four decades of virtually uninterrupted growth. That trend has
begun to reverse in the past two years, in part because of hard work by some DHS
officials to ease the student visa application process. But in the meantime,
Europe, Australia, Canada and even Japan have aggressively and successfully
recruited foreign students and seen sharp rises in enrollment.

Overseas visits have yet to return to pre-9/11 levels, despite the weak dollar
that until recently had made the United States a bargain for tourists. In a
survey conducted earlier this year by the Council on State Governments,
investment-promotion officials in three out of four states said they had faced
problems getting visas for potential foreign investors. And the difficulties
that U.S. companies face in recruiting the best foreign workers have led some,
including Microsoft, to move some operations abroad to remain competitive.

Although several of the most disruptive post-9/11 measures have been eased or
removed, the world has grown much warier of the United States. We continue to
make it inordinately difficult for people to come here by requiring personal
interviews of all visa applicants, even those who have been here many times
before. Others face overly long delays for security screening, and many become
entangled in the morass of a complex immigration system in desperate need of
reform. While some progress is being made on those problems, the bulk of the
money (as Napolitano has seen up close in Arizona) is pouring into the
construction of barriers on the southern border, the hiring of more Border
Patrol agents and the creation of an elaborate system to track the entry and
exit of every foreigner who comes to the United States.

Tom Ridge, the former secretary of homeland security, told me that after 9/11,
"The world was kind of surprised that we pulled in the welcome mat so quickly."
The 2008 election was largely about two issues: restoring America's economy at
home and repairing its image abroad. Putting out the welcome mat again is vital
to both.

ealden@cfr.org

Edward Alden is the author of "The Closing of the American Border: Terrorism,
Immigration and Security Since 9/11." He is a senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations and a former Washington bureau chief for the Financial Times.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Chip Somodevilla -- Getty Images
IMAGE; By Sandy Huffaker -- Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 24, 2008 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Va. Panel on Immigration Steps Back From Hard Line

BYLINE: Anita Kumar; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1008 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND


Virginia, known for some of the nation's toughest policies on illegal
immigration, appears to be abandoning its hard-line approach as state officials
consider proposals to help foreign-born residents assimilate, including
increasing the number of English classes.

In the coming weeks, the Virginia Commission on Immigration will send Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine (D) two dozen recommendations, most of which would help
immigrants instead of penalizing them.

Those on both sides of the issue say interest in immigration has waned because
of the growing economic crisis, a clearer understanding of the state's
limitations on a largely federal issue and backlash at the voting booth.

"I think some reality set in," said state Sen. John C. Watkins (R-Chesterfield),
the group's chairman.

Recommendations include shortening the Medicaid residency requirements for
certain qualified immigrants, offering in-state tuition to immigrants who meet
specific criteria and creating an immigration assistance office.

The commission considered but did not adopt proposals to force immigrants to
carry special identification cards, allow hospitals to fingerprint patients who
do not pay their bills and require proof of legal residence to be eligible for
public assistance.

Virginia officials have spent years addressing the issue of immigration, taking
whatever actions they could within the confines of state and federal law. More
recently, immigration turned out to be a less popular election issue than some
lawmakers had hoped. As a result, state officials appear to be shifting their
focus from fighting illegal immigration to assimilating the ever-growing
population of legal immigrants.

Del. C. Todd Gilbert (R-Shenandoah), who served on the commission and is
staunchly anti-illegal immigration, described the panel's approach to
enforcement as "very much watered-down."

"I can't totally disagree that some people are leery of the issue, because maybe
it wasn't the wedge issue that some thought it would be," Gilbert said.

In recent years, as Congress repeatedly failed to pass immigration legislation,
many states considered immigration bills that addressed employment,
identification, law enforcement and public benefits.

In Virginia, Republicans and some Democrats in conservative-leaning districts
seized on the issue, unveiling proposals to curb illegal immigration and talking
up the cause on the campaign trail. Much of the debate was in Northern Virginia,
including Prince William County, where officials curtailed government services
to illegal immigrants and increased enforcement.

In 2007, a Washington Post poll found that 9 percent of likely voters in
Virginia, and 17 percent in Northern Virginia, considered immigration the most
important issue facing the state. But this year only 1 percent of likely voters
surveyed listed immigration as a top issue.

During the General Assembly's session this year, the number of immigration bills
introduced was the highest in recent years, but most measures died. State and
local governments found that they could do little to resolve the issue.

"This is really a federal issue," Watkins said. "They have . . . pushed it down
toward the states, and the time has come for them to deal with it. We have no
jurisdiction."

Claire Guthrie Gastanaga, who represents several immigrant groups, attributed
the diminishing interest to the realization that Virginia is ahead of other
states in dealing with illegal immigration. "I think that Virginia has long been
at the forefront in acting in this area," she said. "Much of the work was done
before the commission ever met."

Virginia was the first state to tighten security on driver's licenses in
response to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The state acted after it was
discovered that several of the Sept. 11 hijackers had Virginia identification.
In 2003, the General Assembly passed legislation requiring applicants to provide
proof of citizenship or legal presence in the United States, along with proof of
Virginia residency.

Gastanaga said the state now needs to focus on creating a welcoming environment
and helping immigrants acclimate to the state.

The Immigration Commission spent more than a year writing recommendations for
Kaine after public hearings that included expert testimony and comment from
legislators and the Virginia Crime Commission. The proposals would have to be
adopted by Kaine, the General Assembly or Congress.

The commission proposed increasing the number of English classes and creating a
plan to address the needs of foreign-born residents. It also urged the federal
government to compile more complete immigration statistics, increase the number
of visas for foreign workers and pass comprehensive immigration legislation.

Of the 12 million illegal immigrants estimated to be in the United States,
250,000 to 300,000 live in Virginia, according to the Pew Hispanic Center in
Washington. The U.S. Census Bureau says an additional 440,000 people in Virginia
are not U.S. citizens but are in the state legally.

The commission was made up of legislators, local government and law enforcement
officials, doctors, lawyers and representatives of various immigrant
communities. Members were appointed by Kaine and the General Assembly.

Gilbert and another commission member, Del. Robert G. Marshall (R-Prince
William), both advocates of a hard-line approach to illegal immigration, said it
was obvious from the start that they would represent the minority view on the
panel.

"It was pretty clear the fix was in from the beginning," Gilbert said.

But the Rev. Gerry Creedon, pastor of St. Charles Borromeo Catholic Church in
Arlington County and a commission member, said that the group was objective and
that he was pleased with its "positive direction."

Creedon said commission members recognized that in the past some immigration
proposals were raised for "political purposes" and could not be enforced. "They
wanted credit for taking a tough position, but you knew they wouldn't be
implemented," he said.

Polling director Jon Cohen contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Virginia

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Del. C. Todd Gilbert, a panel member, said its approach would
weaken enforcement of immigration laws.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

For Immigrants, a Ripple Effect;
Tough Times Trickle Down Through Newcomers' Networks

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1344 words


While the economy's tailspin is spreading pain across the Washington region, it
has hit many of the area's close-knit immigrant communities with particular
speed and force. The dependence on one another that has contributed so much to
their economic success has now created a domino effect in which the misfortune
of one segment of the group almost immediately affects the rest.

Ethiopian cabdrivers suffering from a drop-off in customers have cut back
drastically on lunches at the District's Ethiopian restaurants, which, in turn,
are now grappling with how to survive.

Korean construction contractors and real estate investors reeling from the
housing crisis are having trouble affording tuition at the area's hagwons -- the
private, after-school academies to which Korean parents traditionally send their
children. At least one has closed, and another, Best Academy, with branches in
Springfield and Sterling as well as Ellicott City, has slashed its prices by
almost 40 percent.

The consequences reach beyond the financial, altering local immigrant culture in
small but significant ways. Economic pressures are straining some cherished
customs and strengthening others. Many immigrants are stepping outside their
comfort zones to participate more in the broader economy.

The shifts are particularly evident among the District's hundreds of Ethiopian
cabdrivers, whose distress over losing customers is compounded by the city's
recent introduction of a meter system that cabbies contend charges some of the
lowest rates in the country.

Negussie Gugsa, who has been driving a cab since he sought political asylum in
the United States 10 years ago, said business is so bad that the association of
Ethiopian air force veterans to which he belongs recently decided to cut its
monthly dues from $20 to $10. The money is mainly used to help new arrivals get
on their feet, he said, and is part of a tradition of communal obligation at the
core of Ethiopian identity.

"When I came, they paid three months of my rent and all my food. . . . I didn't
have anything, so it would have been very tough without them," he said on a
recent morning on a break from his second job as a mechanic in Northeast
Washington. "I have always been committed to do the same for the next person,
and I feel so bad that we don't have the chance to do that now."

Abdulrezak Aboubaker, a fellow Ethiopian driver who had stopped for an oil
change, nodded sympathetically. Last year, Aboubaker said, he could expect to
make as much as $200 after 10 hours of work. Now, he's lucky if he gets $100 for
16 hours.

Aboubaker, 42, got in his cab and started driving toward Northwest Washington.
It was the sort of drizzly day that used to send pedestrians scrambling for a
cab. But an hour of circling brought no takers.

Aboubaker's cellphone started vibrating. It was his mortgage company calling to
discuss his latest missed payment. He hit a button to send the call to voice
mail and stuffed the phone back into his jacket.

About 12:30 p.m., Aboubaker turned onto a sparsely populated stretch of Ninth
Street NW, where almost every other storefront is an Ethiopian restaurant. A
year ago, the strip would have been packed with taxis on lunch break, Aboubaker
observed. He almost always stopped at Habesha, where the owners knew before he
opened his mouth that he would order either kifto, a kind of beef tartare
seasoned with cardamom and other spices, or tibs, lamb fried with onions and
peppers.

For a man who spends most of his day driving strangers, the daily meal with
fellow drivers was more than just a chance to catch up with friends and talk
politics, Aboubaker said. It was a way to recapture a slice of the life he left
behind in Ethiopia, where gathering for meals is so central to the culture that
people eat from the same enormous, pancakelike piece of bread, called injera.

"We come from big families. We like to be together," Aboubaker said.

But at $10 a meal, eating out has become too much of a luxury. Shortly after 1
p.m., Aboubaker pulled over to a curb and popped the trunk of his cab to reveal
his new lunchtime ritual: a small plastic container that his wife had filled
with chickpeas and a few torn pieces of injera.

Other cabbies have adopted the same practice, said Habesha's co-owner, Yared
Mamo. He estimated that at least 70 percent of his business came from the
cabdrivers. "It's very serious. Our earnings are down like 20 or 30 percent," he
said, surveying his empty restaurant on a recent afternoon. "Even when the
cabdrivers do come, they end up sharing a plate between two or three or maybe
four people."

One restaurant on the strip has closed. Another has stopped serving lunch. Mamo
said he is planning to change the menu to appeal more to non-Africans.

There are signs that Korean business owners who once catered almost exclusively
to their tightknit community are also trying to branch out. Sang K. Lee, owner
of Spa World, a Korean-style luxury bathhouse in Centreville, said he has been
trying to make up for a recent decline in Korean customers by advertising in
publications that serve immigrants from countries such as Russia and Turkey that
also have a tradition of using bathhouses.

"It was difficult at first because of the language barrier," Lee said with a
chuckle. "But I found a translator, and now it's working fine. It's interesting.
I'm getting to know all these Russian people."

But if immigrants are modifying some practices, they are reinforcing others.

Low-income Latino immigrants for whom it was customary to cover part of the
mortgage by renting out rooms are taking the practice to new levels. Francisco
Ramirez, a Salvadoran sewer-pipe layer who was laid off two months ago, was
renting two bedrooms to relatives in his brick colonial in Herndon. Now he has
decided to bring in a sister and a niece as well.

The move increases his household to nine people, but with a $3,000-plus monthly
mortgage and a teenage son to support, Ramirez said, "it's the only option."

Because Latino immigrants are so heavily concentrated in construction work, they
appear to have been hardest hit by the mortgage crisis and subsequent housing
slump. In the first quarter of 2008, their unemployment rate reached 7.5 percent
nationally, and though it dropped to 6.4 percent by the third quarter, it
remains higher than the 5.8 percent rate among non-Latino, native-born
residents.

Patty Santamaria, who runs a package-mailing service at the Todos Supermarket in
Woodbridge, said rising unemployment has had a dramatic impact on one
bittersweet holiday custom of low-income Central American immigrants: Every
November, mothers and fathers hit the malls to buy Christmas presents for the
children they left in their home countries, then pack the gifts into large boxes
to mail in time for the big day.

"Last year, the line of people with packages to send was enormous, all the way
to the cafeteria," Santamaria said, gesturing toward a dining area several yards
away. "But we haven't mailed a single package today. . . . And we've only sent
about 10 this whole month."

Money transfers to relatives back home have also plummeted, she said;
nationally, remittances to Latin America this year have grown at the slowest
rate on record.

Yet Ramirez, the out-of-work sewer pipe layer, said not all of the changes have
been bad.

Before, he said, the women in the house did the grocery shopping every Saturday,
and he barely knew his way around a supermarket. But in his quest to save
pennies, Ramirez recently discovered that the Grand Mart in Sterling has a stand
where less-than-perfect produce is offered at bargain prices every few days.
He's been hooked ever since.

"Look at this," he marveled in Spanish, picking out a mango with a small brown
spot. "If you cut that out and eat it today it's perfect -- and you've saved one
dollar."

He plans to continue shopping this way even after he finds another job.

"It's ridiculous to spend money unnecessarily. Maybe my misfortune has served to
educate me," he said, with a wistful smile.

Database editor Dan Keating contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Lois Raimondo -- The Washington Post; Instead of eating at an
Ethiopian restaurant with his fellow cabbies, as was his habit, Ethiopian
immigrant Abdulrezak Aboubaker now packs his lunch.
IMAGE; By Ricky Carioti -- The Washington Post; Francisco Ramirez, a pipe layer
from El Salvador who recently lost his job, now buys marked-down produce, among
other austerity measures. He sees his frugality as the silver lining in a soured
economy. "It's ridiculous to spend money unnecessarily," he said. "Maybe my
misfortune has served to educate me."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

In Md., Demand for Literacy Tutors Exceeds Supply;
Immigrants Aren't The Only Ones in Need

BYLINE: Miranda Spivack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 490 words


Maryland communities are seeing a growing need for volunteer tutors to help
adults read and write, with an increased demand from immigrants who struggle
with English and native residents who left school without mastering the skills.

In Montgomery County, the literacy council has about 600 tutors but needs 200 to
300. The county is home to about half of Maryland's foreign-born population and
has residents from 86 countries. In Prince George's County, the local council
has about 55 tutors and a waiting list of potential students.

Demand for tutors also has increased in Charles County, where the population is
changing rapidly.

"The need is growing because of the influx of a more diverse population,"
Marlene Cleaveland, head of the county's literacy council, said in an e-mail.

She said that increased media attention on literacy also has made some native
residents realize that they need assistance. "Individuals who may have been
passed on in school are realizing their own need to reach out for help."

Free services in Charles and elsewhere rely on volunteers, who are trained by
local councils and usually work one-on-one with students. Tutoring sessions are
often held in local libraries.

The programs are aimed not only at those for whom English is not their first
language but also at native adults who need help in reading and writing to fill
out forms or read instructions and other materials at work, said Loreta Jordan,
who matches tutors with students in Prince George's.

Such adults might want to help their children with homework but can't, or they
might have signed up for a class to help them obtain a high school equivalency
diploma and find that they can't read at the required level.

Montgomery's literacy council served about 900 people last year, among them
about 70 U.S.-born adults who needed help with basic reading and writing. As of
2005, the last year for which data were available, 92,000 county residents, or
about 10 percent of the population, were older than 25 and lacked a high school
diploma, said Pam Saussy, head of the county's literacy council.

"Even in a county as well educated as Montgomery, and with a top-performing
school system, there are native-born individuals, who, for any of many reasons,
age out of the school system without having learned to read and write," Saussy
said.

Students who attend the literacy council's programs also might have undiagnosed
disabilities or might have had to interrupt their education because of illness
or family responsibilities.

Saussy said potential students are sometimes reluctant to seek help. "When we
say they are largely invisible, we mean it," she said. "I suspect that there are
more who need the service than are coming to us."

For assistance or to volunteer, go to
http://www.mdhc.org/programs/maryland-center-for-the-book/literary-resources,
scroll down to literacy organizations and Maryland literacy councils, and click
on the name of your local council.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 5, 2008 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

No Book for This Immigrant Story;
Class Observes Politics And Path to Citizenship

BYLINE: Michael Alison Chandler; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 764 words


For a political science class this fall, Herndon High School students immersed
themselves in the national immigration debate that played out in their hometown
7-Eleven parking lot. They quizzed a lawmaker on Capitol Hill about border
security and yesterday took part in a ceremony in Fairfax County to welcome more
than 40 new U.S. citizens.

The event at a government building in Merrifield was a capstone to a series of
lively discussions in teacher Douglas Graney's class on an issue that has shaped
its town's politics and, for many students, personal histories. The class
learned about the complexities of immigration politics and the drama of the
journey to citizenship.

"It was inspiring," Jhoanne Montano, 18, said after the ceremony. Her parents,
Bolivian immigrants, have spent years building a successful business in the
United States but have not yet applied to become citizens. "I want them to
experience that moment, too," Montano said.

Herndon drew national attention in 2005 when local officials approved spending
public money to build a job center for day laborers. Widespread protests ensued
as critics said the money would be spent to help illegal immigrants. The mayor
and town council members who supported the center were ousted in the next
election, and the new town leaders closed the center.

What the Herndon High class witnessed yesterday was a daily routine. From
October 2007 through September, more than 1 million people nationwide became
naturalized citizens. About 26,000 of them processed their applications at the
Washington District office for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, based
in Fairfax. The office holds three ceremonies a day, sometimes more.

The class added elements to a well-rehearsed program, an experience immigration
officials said could benefit more students. The soon-to-be new citizens filled
rows of black plastic chairs. While their relatives clicked cameras, they
repeated an oath, pledged allegiance to the flag and watched a video with a
message from President Bush and images of national monuments, shorelines and
hard-hat workers.

They also heard two students perform "America the Beautiful" on flute and guitar
as well as a lilting, a cappella version of "The Star-Spangled Banner," and a
student gave a speech about America's motto.

"We all have a story. It's a story of immigration to a great land, whether it be
us directly or our ancestors. . . . Even though we come from different places,
look different and have different faiths, we are now all Americans, and
America's first motto was 'E pluribus unum' -- out of many, one," Samantha
Shortt, 17, told the audience. She also talked about her mother's pursuit of
citizenship after emigrating from Panama many years ago.

Sarah Taylor, district director for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
said she hopes to welcome more student groups to watch or participate in a
naturalization ceremony. She has already reached out to her daughter's school,
Robert Frost Middle in Fairfax, and some students are scheduled to give speeches
during ceremonies next week.

"Many of us who were born here take our citizenship for granted," Taylor said.
"But you get a special perspective" by witnessing the moment another person
becomes a citizen, she added.

"We didn't have to do anything to become a citizen. We were just born here,"
agreed student Carrie Kurtz, 17. The lengthy process of applying for citizenship
"says a lot about their dedication," she said, and their "love of country."

"It actually gave me goose bumps," student Hilary Lesnoski, 17, said. She
charted her family's journey from Poland to the United States, tracing back to
her great-grandparents. She said she had not thought much about immigration
until she moved to Herndon from Pittsburgh two years ago.

News reports have showcased turmoil over the day-labor center, but several
students said that until now they had few opportunities in school to reflect on
what was happening and to hear each other's views.

The class also debated related issues considered in Congress in recent years,
including whether to build a fence on the border with Mexico and whether English
should be the country's official language. The class visited Rep. Jose E.
Serrano (D-N.Y.) and asked him about his positions.

They also prepared for the naturalization ceremony by taking their own practice
citizenship tests. After the ceremony, Graney's course will move on to lessons
on patriotism, he said. Now that they have covered "who gets to be an American,"
the teacher said he wants to talk about what "it means to be an American."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Photos By Bill O'leary -- The Washington Post; During a federal
citizenship ceremony, Fairuz Maggio, left, a student at Herndon High School,
leads a group in reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.
IMAGE; Dozens recite an oath on their way to becoming U.S. citizens at a federal
government building in Merrifield in Fairfax County. The office holds three
ceremonies a day, sometimes more.
IMAGE; Herndon High School student Jennifer Chuon, 17, sings "The Star-Spangled
Banner."
IMAGE; Photos By Bill O'leary -- The Washington Post; Douglas Graney, right, a
political science teacher at Herndon High, takes a photo as the newly minted
citizens recite the Pledge of Allegiance.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 7, 2008 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Deportation Airline Grows With Enforcement Efforts

BYLINE: Eric Palmer; Kansas City Star

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1281 words


The MD-80 that took off from Kansas City International Airport carried about 120
passengers. Some were headed for Mexico, others to Central and South America.

Once the plane was off the ground, food and beverages would be served.

The flight was one of up to 180 flown each month by Kansas City's only locally
based airline. While most are to Central and South America, others are to more
far-flung locales -- Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan and the Palestinian
territories.

Yet most of the city's residents will never get a seat on one of the flights,
nor would they want to.

The little-known Flight Operations Unit was established by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement in 2006 to handle the repatriation of the surging number of
illegal immigrants caught up in tougher enforcement.

In fiscal 2008, which ended Sept. 30, the airline delivered more than 76,000
OTMs (other than Mexicans) back to their homes, a 51 percent jump from two years
before. It also delivered about 134,000 Mexicans, mostly to places like San
Antonio or San Diego, before they were bused to the border.

This year's budget for all transportation and removal efforts is $281.4 million.

The effort is not unlike running a commercial airline, said Craig Charles, a
22-year veteran of the immigration service who is now acting director of flight
operations for what is known as ICE Air. It works to fill every seat on each
plane to keep costs low, keep flights on time and treat its passengers well.

"We are all about cost-effectiveness and safety and getting these people back to
their homeland as fast as we can," Charles said in an interview at the flight
operations offices.

Most illegal immigrants have come by land, but not all of them can be removed
that way, said Pat Reilly, public affairs officer for ICE Air.

"Mexico is a sovereign nation and it doesn't take people who are not entitled to
be there either, so if they are other than Mexican, they have to be flown over
Mexico," Reilly said.

ICE Air is an outgrowth of the Justice Prisoners and Aliens Transportation
System (JPATS), which moves federal prisoners as well as illegal immigrants.
That system is headquartered in Kansas City, and Charles became the liaison from
the immigration agency in 1996.

Initially, illegal immigrants from countries other than Mexico were mostly moved
on commercial aircraft.

With the formation of the Department of Homeland Security in 2003, ICE kept
officers with JPATS to monitor movements of illegal immigrants. But by 2006, ICE
was growing so fast that the JPATS system couldn't keep up. So ICE Air was
formed.

ICE contracts with JPATS, which has four MD-80s, to handle domestic flights. It
leases four 737s from private contractors to handle flights to Central and South
America and the Caribbean. It also leases larger aircraft for less-frequent
transcontinental flights to Asia, Africa and the Middle East.

Charles said his "customers" are the 24 ICE field offices that take custody of
illegal immigrants and are responsible for their welfare until they are removed.
That means housing, feeding and health care. Some are kept in ICE facilities,
others in county jails through contract arrangements. So the faster ICE can fly
them out, the less the cost is to taxpayers.

Reilly said growth has been fed by beefed-up enforcement, particularly two
programs. One tries to identify every illegal immigrant booked into a county,
state or federal jail. ICE arranges for their deportation while they serve jail
time and is waiting for them when they get out. About a third of the "removals"
last year came from this program. The other involves 100 teams looking for the
half-million illegal immigrants who have ignored legal orders to leave the
country. The 38,000 arrests in fiscal 2008 that resulted from this initiative
doubled the number from fiscal 2006.

Such efforts have forced the system to become more efficient. It has reduced
illegal immigrants' length of stay in ICE custody from about 90 days to 30 days.

It was a cloudless but cold and windy day on a recent Friday when a large tour
bus, three vans and a Ford F-150 pulled into the driveway of Executive
Beechcraft at the airport.

Of the 60 passengers, only Horacio Hermoncillo, 22, agreed to discuss his
journey. He sat in a van, handcuffed and shackled like the other deportees.

Hermoncillo came to the United States on a visa four years ago for the money,
then never went home. He knew a bit about fixing cars and landed a job as a
mechanic in Chicago for a "great" man who he said taught him a lot. The work
allowed him to send money to his family.

But on a recent vacation to St. Louis, he was stopped by police and his illegal
status was revealed.

He said he hoped to open a mechanic's shop when he returned home. But he had
mixed feelings about his return.

"I wish to stay here. The money is better, but I'm going to my country,"
Hermoncillo said. "My mom and brothers will make a big party with a lot of
beer."

Once the MD-80 landed, the buses and vans pulled into a semicircle next to the
plane, creating a staging area.

Canvas, plastic and paper bags containing underwear and belts, cellphones and
other belongings were laid on the tarmac as a phalanx of men in blue U.S.
marshal uniforms and sunglasses disembarked. They were unarmed. Weapons are not
allowed on the tarmac or in the cabin of the plane.

Then in twos and threes, the illegal immigrants were taken off the bus and out
of the vans. Some were dressed warmly, but others had only shorts and T-shirts.
Each was patted down, and cuffs and shackles were checked to make sure they were
not biting into skin.

The domestic flights, manned by the U.S. Marshals Service, require that the
passengers be handcuffed and shackled onboard.

With the illegal immigrants already on the plane, the flight would have more
than 120 passengers. Like any airline, ICE Air tries to fill every available
seat to tamp down costs.

"It costs the American taxpayer around $700 a seat," Charles said. "If we sent
everybody on commercial airlines, we just couldn't afford it."

To use its planes to best advantage, ICE Air employs a system of spokes and
hubs, like most airlines. It flies people in from nearly 20 cities, including a
weekly flight to Kansas City to pick up the illegal immigrants rounded up from
Kansas and Missouri.

Flights end up in hubs including Mesa, Ariz., and San Antonio. From those hubs,
Mexican nationals are bused to the border and released. Those from other
countries are combined and flown to other cities from which regularly scheduled
ICE Air flights take them to their home countries.

On the international flights, which are handled by ICE employees, all
nonviolent, noncriminal passengers have the chains removed.

Reilly noted that when most illegal immigrants get into the ICE system, they
have served their time.

"They have paid their debt to society and now they are being removed on
immigration issues," she said.

Onboard meals might be a sandwich, a bottle of water and an apple. No oranges
because they are sticky and messy. No milk because it can cause upset stomachs.
After all, this is the first time that many of these passengers have been on a
plane. There is a nurse on every flight.

Good treatment of those being removed pays dividends in getting cooperation from
other countries in managing immigration issues. But Charles said there is no
reason not to be gentle.

"We really want to make a good impression on these people," he said. "Those of
us who have been around this for 20 years, we have seen the plight of these
people. We can't get personal with this, but, again, there is no reason
whatsoever that we can't treat them with as much respect as is possible. No one
holds a grudge against these people."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Agents and deportees
pack a flight on 'ICE Air,' the deportation airline run by Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement.
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Handcuffs and chains are laid
on the ground before deportees board or transfer between 'ICE Air' flights.
Here, agents stand by while waiting for their passengers to arrive.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 9, 2008 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Mid-Decade Data Sharpen View of Mid-Size Suburbs

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 575 words


Immigrants continued to flock to most mid-size  communities in Washington's
outer suburbs over the first half of the decade, although the foreign-born
population declined slightly in a few immigrant strongholds such as Baileys
Crossroads, Annandale and Herndon in Virginia, and Silver Spring, Greenbelt  and
North Bethesda in Maryland, according to figures released by the U.S. Census
Bureau yesterday.

The findings were included in the bureau's first-ever mid-decade publication of
detailed social, economic and housing data on locations with as few as 20,000 to
64,999 residents.

Previously such wide-ranging statistical portraits of the nation's 2,500
mid-size counties, cities and towns were available only through the
once-a-decade census, because that was the only count that provided a large
enough sample on which to base estimates.

This year, the bureau overcame that problem by combining three years of
responses to the recently launched American Community Survey, which collects
information from more than 250,000 households a month and will replace the
long-form questionnaire previously used in the decennial census.

Yesterday's release, which covers the 2005-2007 period, encompasses a dizzying
array of issues, including income, marital status, language ability, commuting
habits, housing costs, occupation and type of home heating.

From now on, the bureau will release multiyear estimates for  mid-size areas
every year, enabling local governments to make more-informed decisions about
where to build  roads, schools and community service centers, as well as
helping them get their fair share of government funds based on economic need.

Yesterday's release "represents an important milestone for data users
everywhere," said Census Bureau Director Steve H. Murdock. "Communities are no
longer limited to a once-a-decade look at their population's characteristics. .
. . [This] will allow small towns and communities to track how they are changing
on an ongoing basis."

The figures -- available at http://www.factfinder.census.gov -- offer intriguing
specifics about nearly 70 suburban Washington localities.

For instance, since the early 1990s, immigrants have been spreading far beyond
gateway states and metropolitan centers to a broad swath of suburban counties
across the country. This was  reflected in the figures on mid-size communities,
with foreign-born populations growing as fast in localities with fewer than
30,000 people as in more populous places, according to William H. Frey, a
Brookings Institution demographer who analyzed the data.

Locally, immigration had its biggest impact in the Lanham-Seabrook area of
Prince George's County. The foreign-born share of the population there jumped
from 17 percent in 2000 to 35 percent by mid-decade.

However, the foreign-born population of the Linton Hall area of Prince William
grew at the fastest rate in the area. A fivefold increase lifted the share of
immigrants in the population from 6 percent to 17 percent between 2000 and the
2005-2007 period covered in yesterday's release.

The region's wealth is also reflected in the new data. Fairfax and Montgomery
counties, regularly ranked among the nation's wealthiest counties, have three of
only nine mid-size localities nationwide with median family incomes that
exceeded $150,000 (in 2007 dollars). The figure was $181,773 in McLean, $177,506
in Potomac and $168,385 in Bethesda.

Database editor Dan Keating contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

State to Seek Bill Tying Legal Status to Driver's Licenses

BYLINE: Lisa Rein; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 475 words


Maryland's transportation secretary said yesterday that the state will move
ahead with legislation to require immigrants to prove they are legal residents
before they can drive.

If approved by the General Assembly during the legislative session that begins
next month, the change would reverse a long-standing policy that makes Maryland
one of four states that allow undocumented immigrants to obtain driver's
licenses.

The move follows an announcement 11 months ago by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) that,
in its effort to comply with the federal security law known as Real ID, Maryland
would require immigrants to prove a "lawful" presence to be able to legally
drive. In effect, O'Malley reversed a plan that his transportation secretary had
set in motion to develop a two-tier system that would have issued separate
licenses to undocumented immigrants and legal residents.

States have until 2010 to begin complying with Real ID. Arizona Gov. Janet
Napolitano (D), President-elect Barack Obama's nominee for homeland security
secretary, has criticized the law for the costs it imposes on states and said
Arizona would not comply. Many legislatures and governors have said they hope
the Obama administration will scale back the law's provisions.

But Maryland Transportation Secretary John Porcari said yesterday that the
legislature must act this year or risk the security of its licensing system.
"The timelines compel us to do something this session," Porcari said after his
staff briefed lawmakers on the proposal.

In the past year, four more states have imposed legal-presence mandates,
officials said, leaving Maryland, New Mexico, Hawaii and Washington as the only
ones that allow undocumented immigrants to drive. With Maryland the only such
state on the East Coast, it is becoming a "pass-through" for nonresidents who
try to obtain licenses, state Motor Vehicle Administrator John T. Kuo said.

Under a program complying with Real ID, all residents seeking licenses would be
required to show Social Security cards, passports or military identification to
prove their legal status, Kuo said.

Porcari said he expects a bill to be introduced by the governor or
transportation agency. The resulting debate would probably pit the O'Malley
administration against immigrant advocates who say the policy change would be a
setback for thousands of immigrants.

"Given the new [Obama] administration, why should we be moving forward with
this?" asked Del. Victor R. Ramirez (D-Prince George's), whose district includes
many immigrants.

Kuo told Ramirez that although he asked "an excellent question . . . I have to
work with facts and deadlines."

O'Malley spokesman Rick Abbruzzese said the Real ID law continues to pose
challenges, largely because of its cost. "We're waiting for guidance from the
new administration. In the meantime, we're continuing to move forward."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 28, 2008 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Why Can't I Get Off This List?

BYLINE: Juan Fernando GÃ³mez

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 1155 words


I call it the little room. In most cases it's actually not that small, but my
claustrophobia seems to kick in as soon as the immigration officer separates me
from the other passengers on my flight and escorts me through a door into my own
private travel hell.

As you sit in crowded airports waiting for your long-delayed flights, cursing
yourself for traveling over the holidays, remember: It could be worse. You could
be me. My ordeal begins before the plane touches down in the United States, some
time between the moment when the flight attendant begins handing out blank
immigration and customs forms and when I hear the wheels disengaging in the
belly of the plane. Will I sail through immigration and customs, I wonder, or
will this be the time that they get me? Might I even be whisked off to
Guantanamo?

The crazy thing is that I have done nothing wrong. I am a U.S. citizen and have
no criminal record. I pay my taxes (well, except for those few years when, right
out of grad school, I was convinced that taxes did not apply to me). I don't
litter. The problem is that I happen to share a name with at least one shady
character on the Terrorist Screening Center's watch list. At least, that's the
list that I believe I am on, although no official will tell me for sure.

My name is common in Latin America, the Spanish equivalent of John Smith. It
also seems to be particularly popular among law-breakers. I once sneaked a peek
at an immigration officer's computer and saw an entire screen full of my
doppelgangers. Who knows how many of them were bad guys and how many were
law-abiding saps like me?

It doesn't help that my travel habits are similar to those of people who
actually belong on a watch list. I grew up in MedellÃ­n, Colombia, during the
height of the Pablo Escobar drug wars and have worked for the better part of the
past decade in some of the most dangerous places in the world.  In countries
such as Afghanistan and Colombia, I help farmers find legal, profitable and
sustainable alternatives to growing coca and poppies, the raw material for
cocaine and heroin. So I guess it's understandable that my passport -- packed
with added pages and stamps marking my entry into and exit from countries such
as Cambodia, Bolivia and Haiti -- raises eyebrows.

It seems to me, though, that airport security should know enough to tell me from
the terrorists. I'm not easily offended, but being treated like a dangerous
criminal every time I enter the country is getting a little old.

The airport routine is always the same,  whether I'm in Miami, Washington,
Atlanta or any other city. I step off the plane after sitting in coach for
hours, my knees bruised from hitting the seat in front of me, and watching films
that I swore I'd never pay to see. I'm always cautious as I wait in the
immigration and customs line. On the Transportation Security Administration's
Web site is a running total of the number of people arrested each week for
suspicious behavior or fraudulent travel documents. (For the week ending Dec.
21, 15 people were arrested due to suspicious behavior or fraudulent travel
documents and 19 guns were found at checkpoints.) I would hate to be hauled in
for scratching my nose or for tying my shoe while in line. So I do my best to
act relaxed, as if I were just coming home -- which is exactly what I'm doing.

The real terror begins when my toes touch the yellow line, where I wait to be
called forward. Approaching the immigration officer before being summoned could
make me appear too eager (and often earns me a stern reprimand). On the other
hand, any hesitation could be interpreted as a sign that I'm afraid of facing
the law. So I walk up to the officer and nonchalantly hand over my bright blue
passport. Seconds feel like hours as he starts hitting the "page down" key on
his computer, scanning screen after screen, periodically glancing at me and my
passport. This is when I break out in a cold sweat, which makes the officer even
more dubious. When he reaches for a yellow highlighter and marks my customs
slip, I know I'm headed to the little room.

I'm so familiar with airport-security personnel that I often recognize the
officers who escort me. In Miami, I cringe to see the large female officer who
once screamed across the room that her advice, if I wanted to spare my family
some trouble, was not to name my son Juan. Of course, not all officers are like
that. I occasionally run into a young woman who stopped me once a few years ago.
New to the job and eager to help, she took down my information and assured me
that I would never be stopped again. But she was wrong; upon my next entry into
the country, I was held for longer than ever before.

The little room in Miami is my favorite, partly because it has vending machines
and partly because it is always full of people who, like me, seem familiar with
the routine of being waylaid by airport security. Most of us are cleared within
minutes or hours, though the process continues to be intimidating and cold.
Others are taken into still smaller rooms, where I can only imagine what
happens. Maybe I should stop watching all those bad in-flight action movies.

The room at Dulles is particularly intimidating. I recently landed there before
dawn, after an overnight flight, and found myself alone except for two young
guys in plastic handcuffs. While they seemed nice enough, I couldn't help but
wonder about the company I was keeping.

Time and time again, I've been cleared for entry into the United States. So why
does my name remain on the list? Will I have to go through this for the rest of
my life? In desperation, I always ask airport-security officers how my name can
be removed. I've heard it all, from writing to my congressman (as if that would
do any good) to filling out a form (never mind that no one has been able to
produce the document or tell me where I can find it). The most honest answer
came from a young, Afghan American officer at Dulles a couple of weeks ago:
"There's absolutely nothing you can do."

It's not the countless missed connections that bother me or the fact that I have
to politely decline offers from well-meaning travel companions to wait for me,
because they don't know that they might be waiting for hours. It's the
powerlessness of being unable to clear my name and of having to go through this
humiliation over and over.

I heard rumors that the Terrorist Screening Center watch list would hit 1
million people by the end of 2008, but the TSA Web site states that the real
number is actually closer to 400,000 and that there are fewer than 16,000 people
on the "selectee" and "no-fly" lists used by the TSA. The site also asks, "Got
Feedback?" Well, I have plenty of feedback, but I'm a little scared of the
consequences of saying what I really feel.

Juan Fernando GÃ³mez is a director in the Afghanistan and Pakistan region for
Chemonics, a Washington-based international development consulting firm.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Joe Raedle -- Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

CalderÃ³n Offers Advice to Obama;
Mexican Leader Urges Action to Improve U.S. Image Abroad

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 410 words


Mexican President Felipe CalderÃ³n said yesterday that President-elect Barack
Obama should take steps to stem a "worrisome" rise in  anti-U.S. sentiment in
Latin America.

In a meeting with Washington Post editors and reporters, CalderÃ³n warned that
Obama will face threats throughout the region to principles promoted by the
United States, such as free markets, property rights and the rule of law.

"He has the leadership, the credibility, to change that situation quickly,"
CalderÃ³n said. "We can work together to promote the values we share."

CalderÃ³n met Monday with Obama, continuing a tradition of Mexican presidents
sitting down with newly elected U.S. presidents before Inauguration Day. The
rapport between the two men could help determine the future of such hot-button
issues as immigration and trade.

"We coincide about the benefits of trade," CalderÃ³n said, noting that Mexico is
one of the United States' largest trading partners. "In Mexico, we are fans of
American products."

CalderÃ³n credited the North American Free Trade Agreement with creating jobs in
both countries and said he would be responsive to Obama's concerns about labor
rights and the environment.

CalderÃ³n, who favors U.S. immigration reform, said Obama cautioned him about
"obstacles and difficulties in the [U.S.] political arena." About half of the
estimated 12 million undocumented  immigrants in the United States are Mexican.
The U.S. economic slowdown has made it more difficult for many of them to send
home money, and some have returned to their native country because they cannot
find work here.

CalderÃ³n said he has a plan to create 300,000 jobs in Mexico in the next six
months. "My dream is to see a Mexico in 20, 30 years or less where nobody will
need to go out of the country for economic reasons," he said.

CalderÃ³n has deployed tens of thousands of Mexican soldiers and federal police
to fight drug cartels. The United States must do its part, CalderÃ³n said, by
limiting arms trafficking and reducing drug consumption. "We are working hard on
the supply side," he said. "Working on the demand side is critical."

Later  yesterday, CalderÃ³n met with President Bush, who thanked him for
cooperating in the war on drugs.

"We are committed to fighting criminals and to overcoming them once and for
all," CalderÃ³n said in a joint appearance with Bush. "And the rule of law is
the one thing that I want to stress we are going to promote, no matter what, in
our country."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Pool Photo By Kevin Dietsch Via Getty Images; President Felipe
CalderÃ³n, who met Monday with Obama, visited President Bush yesterday at the
White House.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Suspect in Silver Spring Slaying Is Charged With Murder

BYLINE: Dan Morse; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 542 words


A suspect in the May slaying of a shopkeeper in Silver Spring is linked to the
crime by DNA evidence found in a stolen getaway vehicle, authorities said
yesterday, announcing that they had obtained a warrant charging the man with
first-degree murder and carjacking.

Julio N. Paredes, 43, is in federal custody, accused of conspiring with others
in a series of armed robberies across the state. The robberies began shortly
before the slaying and continued until August. At least four of the six
businesses that were struck catered to a Latino clientele, as did the variety
store in Silver Spring.

Federal immigration authorities placed a detainer on Paredes, meaning that they
suspect he could be in the country illegally and that they might move to deport
him after his criminal cases run their course. Paredes's residency status was
unclear.

Immigration agents questioned him after one of the robberies, said Lt. Dale
Patrick of the sheriff's office in Queen Anne's County, where the last of the
robberies occurred.

The issue of illegal immigration and crime has surfaced recently in Montgomery
County, as the police department is seeking approval to begin asking suspects
accused of violent crimes and weapons offenses about their immigration status.

Paredes's lawyer, William C. Brennan, declined to comment.

Police said yesterday that they were trying to confirm the identity of a second
suspect in the slaying of Jorge Villatoro, an immigrant from El Salvador.
Villatoro, 50, was fatally shot at the store Variedades Jenny, which was named
for his daughter.

Villatoro was a friend to many Latino immigrants who shopped at the store.
Customers used the store's wire transfer service to send money home. "There's no
words to explain how devastating this has been to all of us," Jenny Villatoro
said after her father was killed.

After the shooting, the assailants carjacked a bucket truck and fled. The
vehicle was found in Prince George's County. Montgomery detectives investigated
the case for months without making any arrests.

On Aug. 7, authorities in Queen Anne's said, four men robbed a store called
Tienda Ramirez, which also offered wire transfers. One of those suspects carried
a shotgun. The group demanded proceeds from the store and fled after receiving
cash, police said.

An off-duty sheriff's deputy soon spotted their sport-utility vehicle, the
sheriff's office said. Inside they found Paredes and the other three men.

Investigators linked them to robberies in Silver Spring, Laurel and Annapolis,
authorities said. Paredes was charged with conspiracy and using a firearm in a
crime of violence. The other three were also charged.

The proposal by Montgomery police to check the immigration status of people
arrested in connection with violent crimes or weapons violations would mark a
departure from the county's past practice. Police said they hope to use
immigration laws to get violent criminals off the street. Opponents said such a
policy would all but necessitate racial or ethnic profiling, ensnaring innocent
people.

In the case of Paredes, online court records do not indicate he was ever in
police custody in Maryland before the slaying of Villatoro. It is not clear that
any change in police procedures would have prevented the slaying.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Julio Paredes is in federal custody.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Economy, Not Immigration, a Top Worry of Latinos

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 314 words


The immigration issue has receded in importance for Latinos amid their mounting
alarm over the economy, according to a nationwide poll released yesterday by the
nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center.

Only 31 percent of Latinos surveyed cited immigration as an "extremely
important" priority for the incoming Obama administration, ranking the issue
behind not only the economy but education, health care, national security and
the environment.

By contrast, 38 percent of Hispanics judged immigration "extremely important" in
a similar poll taken in December 2007, several months after an unsuccessful
proposal to overhaul the country's immigration system and offer illegal
immigrants a path to citizenship sparked rancorous debate in Congress.

Even then, immigration was ranked only fifth on a list of six possible
priorities for Latinos, who make up 15 percent of the population and include
both new arrivals and people whose roots in the United States stretch back
generations. What has changed most is Latinos' focus on the economy: Fifty-seven
percent now cite it as "extremely important" compared with 43 percent in the
December 2007 poll.

Similarly, according to the current poll, 31 percent of Latino respondents who
voted in the presidential election said the economy was the issue that mattered
most in their decision. Only 6 percent cited immigration, about half the number
that cited "candidates' attributes" or "a general desire for change."

Mark Hugo Lopez, co-author of the survey released yesterday, cautioned that the
results might reflect Latinos' increasing concern with the economy rather than
mounting apathy over immigration. He noted that 75 percent of Hispanics reported
that immigration should be at least a "very important" priority for
president-elect Barack Obama, and 88 percent cited it as at least "important."

To read the report, go to http://pewhispanic.org/reports/.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2009 Saturday
                                 Met 2 Edition

'I Am Here to Give a Better Life . . . to Immigrant Children'

BYLINE: Darryl Fears; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 498 words


People from across the country are arriving for the inauguration of America's
first black president. Who are these people? In their stories is a portrait of a
nation. One in a series.

Since leaving Guatemala to come to the United States at age 27, Hilda Esteban
hasn't taken a journey quite this long. She is leaving her little North
Hollywood, Calif., apartment and coming to Washington.

Esteban will take four vacation days from her hospital cleaning job to see
Barack Obama's swearing-in ceremony on the U.S. Capitol steps. The January cold
does not worry her. This is such a big moment, especially for immigrants, "los
immigrantes," she said, switching from Spanish to English sometimes for
emphasis, sometimes to be better understood.

"Yo voy a ir por avion [I am coming by airplane]," she said. She will go
someplace she rarely goes, Los Angeles International Airport, where some members
of her immigrant advocacy group, the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of
Los Angeles, or CHIRLA, will meet her for the flight.

Years ago, Esteban, 44, became a legal resident, but she has never before come
to see someone take the presidential oath. Truth is, Esteban said, she at first
hoped that it would be Hillary Rodham Clinton. Clinton is a woman. Esteban is a
woman. Plus, she said, "Ella tiene la experiencia," echoing Clinton's primary
campaign slogan that she was the more experienced candidate.

But Obama won her over with his oratory and some things he said about the rights
of immigrants. The way Esteban heard it, he said that everyone deserves a decent
wage, a decent job, a path to citizenship. If she heard him say anything about
protecting the borders and keeping illegal immigrants out -- which he did -- she
doesn't recall it.

The slice of hope she took from the Obama campaign was the immigrant piece. The
way he reached out in Texas. The "Si Se Puede" -- Yes We Can -- chant that grew
louder and louder as the campaign went on, drowning out John McCain, who, like
Obama, supported comprehensive immigration reform.

Esteban joined CHIRLA three years ago to fight for immigrant rights. She favors
reform that gives hard-working Latinos like her, as well as Koreans and others,
the right to become an American.

"I miss my country," she said, in English. "But I love this country. This is
mine now." She has raised two daughters, one 21, the other 19, both legal
residents, she said.

One daughter has two jobs, working in a hospital kitchen and a fast food joint,
and the other is studying to become a nurse. With her daughters in mind, Esteban
is not waiting for Obama to get comfortable in office. She and a group of about
20 CHIRLA members will join other immigration activists to demonstrate for
rights.

"In Guatemala, I have my father and my brothers. I don't go back," she said. She
will watch her Guatemalan president take his oath of office in her country. "I
am here to give a better life to my daughters, to immigrant children. I want to
give them hope and opportunities."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Courtesy Of Hilda Esteban; Hilda Esteban, who is originally from
Guatemala, is coming to Washington from California for the Obama inauguration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 22, 2009 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant Advocates Call for End to Raids;
At Rally Outside ICE, Activists Also Urge Legislation Allowing Path to
Citizenship

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 481 words


Several hundred immigrant supporters and religious leaders from across the
country marched to the Southwest Washington headquarters of the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agency yesterday, strumming guitars, beating drums and
waving colorful homemade banners exhorting President Obama to halt immigration
raids and promote legislation offering illegal immigrants a path to citizenship.

Although the demonstration featured many speeches in Spanish and cries of "SÃ­
se puede!" -- Yes we can! -- the crowd was also notable for its diversity. Suely
Neves, 26, of the Boston group Deported Diaspora had come on behalf of her
fellow Cape Verde immigrants. Standing next to her, Indian American immigrant
Dimple Rana, 28, said she was concerned about the fate of the Cambodian refugees
she works with in Lowell, Mass.

"I've seen a lot of good friends deported because of minor prior convictions,"
Rana said as groups waving banners from Florida and New Orleans chanted behind
her.

Many of the demonstrators had come to town to celebrate Obama's inauguration,
and the mostly religious representatives who addressed the crowd portrayed the
event as a chance to spiritually "cleanse" the agency of the Bush
administration's stepped-up enforcement approach. At the same time, they urged
Obama to make good on his campaign promise to push through a legalization plan
similar to one that former president George W. Bush twice tried unsuccessfully
to get through Congress.

Margarito Esquino, an activist for indigenous rights in El Salvador, lit incense
and waved condor feathers toward the sky, shouting in Spanish, "O Great Spirit,
we ask you to get rid of all the badness in this building and bring in the
good!"

Rabbi David Schneyer, of the Am Kolel Sanctuary and Renewal Center in
Beallsville, blew on a shofar, a ram's horn traditionally sounded for the Jewish
new year.

The Rev. Frederick Hancock of Gethsemane United Methodist Church in Capitol
Heights performed a libation ceremony meant to evoke African ancestral rituals,
pouring grape juice -- symbolizing wine -- onto the roots of a potted plant as
he called for strength from civil rights icons such as Rosa Parks and Cesar
Chavez.

Many participants said they believe Obama's first priority must be to right the
economy, even if that means delaying an overhaul of immigration law for months
and even years. But they are also eager for the administration to declare an
immediate moratorium on deportations and immigration raids.

Antonio Bernabe, an organizer with the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of
Los Angeles and one of several immigrant activists who met with Obama's
transition team in recent weeks, said he was very optimistic based on its
response. Still, he said, demonstrations remain necessary.

"The anti-immigrant groups are already moving, and we have to assure Obama that
. . . [the raids] are not acceptable," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Kevin Clark -- The Washington Post; Willie David III and
Ester Simmons, both of Orlando, rally outside the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement headquarters in Southwest Washington.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 1, 2009 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

ICE Facility Detainee's Death Stirs Questions;
Va. Inmates Dispute Official Accounts

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1590 words


One morning last  November, Prince William County resident Guido Newbrough woke
up in crippling pain at Piedmont Regional Jail, 150 miles south of the District.
Delirious and unable to walk, he asked fellow inmates to bring him ice. They
began pounding on the doors to summon guards.

Among the mostly Central American and African inmates who slept on the
triple-stacked bunk beds of Piedmont's dormlike holding cells, Newbrough, 48,
was an unusual case. He was born in Germany but raised in Prince William and had
lived in Virginia since age 6. But a 2003 conviction for aggravated sexual
battery made him eligible for deportation, and Immigration and Customs
Enforcement arrested him in February.

Newbrough had been at Piedmont for nine months when he began complaining of
sharp pain in his abdomen and back.

For a week or more, Newbrough's requests for medical attention were ignored,
according to his family and fellow detainees later interviewed by phone inside
the jail. The last time they saw him, detainees said, guards were dragging
Newbrough across the floor and yelling at him to stop faking illness.

On Thanksgiving night, Newbrough's parents got a call at their Manassas-area
home telling them their son was in critical condition at a Richmond hospital. He
died the next day.

Immigration officials said Newbrough died of a heart attack, but a recently
completed autopsy report found an underlying cause: a raging, untreated
bacterial infection.

"Everybody makes mistakes in life. It doesn't mean you have to go to jail and
die there from neglect," said Jack Newbrough, Guido's stepfather, who raised
Guido as his own after meeting the child's mother, Heidi, in Germany while
serving in the Air Force. He said that he and his wife are planning to sue.

Piedmont Superintendent Ernest Toney denied that his staff ignored Newbrough's
requests for help and rejected inmate accounts that Newbrough was placed in
disciplinary segregation -- "the hole" -- after being removed by guards. "That's
100 percent incorrect," he said.

Newbrough was the second ICE detainee in less than two years to die at Piedmont,
a locally run, multi-county jail near Farmville that has contracted with ICE to
become one of Virginia's principal detention centers for illegal immigrants and
non-citizens facing deportation.

An ICE investigation is underway, but Newbrough's death comes at a time of
increased scrutiny for ICE and for Farmville, where developers and town
officials plan to open a $21 million private detention facility by summer.  The
investors backing the 1,040-bed facility have pledged to convert Farmville into
"the ICE hub of the mid-Atlantic."

Yet questions about the treatment of ICE detainees at Piedmont are hanging over
the project. When 50-year-old Guinean immigrant Abdeulaye Sall died of kidney
failure at Piedmont in December 2006, an internal ICE investigation found that
the jail's medical unit did not meet minimum ICE standards, and that the
facility "has failed on multiple levels to perform basic supervision and provide
for the safety and welfare of ICE detainees."

"Detainee health care is in jeopardy," concluded the report, obtained by the
American Civil Liberties Union through the Freedom of Information Act.

Since then, ICE has continued to send thousands of detainees, including many
from the Washington area, to Piedmont. When asked what measures, if any, the
agency had taken to improve medical care at Piedmont, ICE spokeswoman Cori
Bassett said she could not comment because of the ongoing investigation into
Newbrough's death.

"One of ICE's highest priorities is to ensure safe and humane conditions of
confinement for those in our custody," Bassett said. "When we find standards are
not being met, we take immediate action to correct them," she said, adding that
ICE is conducting a "comprehensive review" of Piedmont.

But Toney said he had not read the 2006 ICE report criticizing care at his
facility.

Since Newbrough's death, the ICE detainee population at Piedmont has fallen to
its lowest level in more than eight years, according to Toney. As of yesterday,
fewer than 130 ICE detainees were being held at the facility, down from more
than 330 a few months ago, said Toney, who said he believed the drop in
detainees was a result of financial decisions and not the Newbrough
investigation.

Newbrough's case mirrors earlier accounts of poor care at Piedmont. Two American
University law students and their professor said a former client of theirs was
transferred out of Piedmont in December after 15 months in solitary confinement
without psychiatric evaluation, even though he had not spoken in more than a
year.

ICE said it plans to continue sending detainees to the facility and maintains
that fatality rates among the more than 300,000 detainees in the agency's care
each year are lower than those of the general U.S. prison population, noting
that detainee deaths have fallen nationwide since 2004.

A Post investigation last year found that 83 detainees had died in ICE custody
during the previous five years in the network of private prisons, county jails
and federal detention facilities across the country where the agency holds
non-U.S. citizens eligible for deportation. Medical experts said 30 of those
fatalities might have been prevented with proper medical care.

Expert reviews of Newbrough's autopsy suggest he would probably be alive if he
had been given antibiotics. What probably began as a urinary tract infection had
spread to Newbrough's kidneys and entered his bloodstream. Over several days,
Newbrough developed a systemic staph infection that attacked his brain, heart
and liver, riddling them with abscesses, according to the autopsy report.

"It seems like he had symptoms that should have been addressed but weren't, and
then he got worse," said Homer Venters, an internist at New York University who
reviewed the autopsy at the request of Newbrough's family and who testified
before a congressional subcommittee on immigrant detainee health care last year.
"Wherever [Newbrough] was, he was found in the last stages of life."

ICE and Piedmont said Newbrough's illness was discovered on Thanksgiving, but
detainees say Newbrough's removal by guards happened several days earlier.

"He was sick for a week with no medical attention at all," said Rowand
Akinyosoye, a 37-year-old Ghanaian immigrant and Hyattsville resident who is one
of four detainees interviewed by phone inside the jail, each of whom gave the
same account. "The guards told him to fill out a medical request. He did. He was
not called, and his situation deteriorated."

"No one paid any attention to him," said inmate Ulises Gonzalez, 36, a Manassas
resident from El Salvador.

As the investigation proceeds, Farmville officials have sought to create
distance between Piedmont and the new facility that could bring hundreds of jobs
to the struggling town.

Immigration Centers of America-Farmville, the newly formed company that plans to
build and run the jail, has no formal commitment from ICE but aims to earn
millions housing a large portion of the region's immigrant detainee population
at a daily rate of $63 an inmate.

"Immigration Centers of America is a completely inexperienced company when it
comes to running detention centers. They say that's okay because they'll bring
in highly trained staff from Piedmont," said Jeff Winder, an activist from
People United, which opposes the project. "That does not inspire confidence."

Farmville Town Manager Gerald Spates said the new facility, with space to expand
to 2,500 beds, would deliver "state of the art" medical care to detainees, with
a doctor on site at all times. At Piedmont, nurses staff the infirmary but a
doctor is present only once a week, working by videoconference the rest of the
time, Toney said.

It is unclear why medical staff at Piedmont did not treat Newbrough sooner.
According to his family, Newbrough suffered from depression and high blood
pressure but was otherwise in good health.

They said he had quit drinking and turned his life around, working construction
in Dumfries, after his arrest in 2002 for molesting a girlfriend's 4-year-old
daughter.

Newbrough reached a deal with Stafford County prosecutors in 2003 and entered an
Alford plea on charges of aggravated sexual battery and taking liberties with a
minor. In such a plea, a defendant does not admit to commission of a crime but
acknowledges that sufficient evidence exists to support a finding of guilt.

Newbrough, a father of three, served four months in jail before he was placed on
indefinite probation, ordered to register as a sex offender, banned from using
the Internet and prohibited from interacting with children -- including his two
youngest -- without permission from a social worker.

It was his status as a convicted sex offender that would lead to his arrest by
ICE.

When ICE agents showed up at his parents' home to arrest him in February 2008,
Newbrough had no idea what they were doing there, his parents said. "He turned
to me and said, 'Dad, what do you mean I'm not an American citizen?' " according
to his stepfather.

Newbrough was sent to Piedmont the next day. Over the next few months,
Newbrough's attorney petitioned to have him recognized as a U.S. citizen through
his stepfather, but a judge rejected the argument.

Newbrough was so desperate to stay, his stepfather said, that he had the words
"Raised American" tattooed onto his arm at Piedmont. Newbrough's final
deportation appeal was denied Nov. 26, two days before he died.

Staff writer Josh White contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Family Photo; The Newbrough family in Germany, when Guido was 2.
Stepfather Jack met and married the child's mother, Heidi, while serving in the
Air Force.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 Every Edition

Manassas Sign Returns in New Form;
Fate of Pro-Immigrant Billboard Heads to Court as City Files Injunction

BYLINE: Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. LZ03

LENGTH: 840 words


In the 1993 comedy "Groundhog Day," Bill Murray plays a TV weatherman who is
forced to repeat the same day of his life over and over. Manassas officials
watching Gaudencio Fernandez unveil a new billboard Monday -- Groundhog Day, no
less -- surely know how that feels.

A few months after city staff members persuaded Fernandez to remove his previous
giant sign from the vacant lot his wife owns at 9500 Liberty St., Fernandez
unveiled a new structure there this week. Sixty-four feet long, 10 feet tall and
positioned at a 45-degree angle from the ground, the new installation looks less
like a wall than a wedge -- a shape well suited to the return of in-your-face
politics in the city's Old Town neighborhood.

"PRESIDENT OBAMA ELIMINATE THE BORDERS THAT DIVIDE AND CONQUER PEOPLE OF
COLOR!!" reads Fernandez's new message in blue and red paint, followed by calls
for Manassas and Prince William County to "stop deportations" and end the
cooperative agreements known as 287(g) that both jurisdictions have signed with
federal immigration authorities.

Although President Obama has yet to be spotted riding the Virginia Railway
Express, the thousands of commuters who do pass the sign each day are likely to
see Fernandez's message until the sign's legality can be sorted out in court.

A Circuit Court judge will weigh in as soon as tomorrow on the structure, after
Manassas officials filed an injunction against Fernandez on Monday when he
refused to stop construction. That came after Brian Smith, the city's chief
building official, issued two violations to Fernandez on Sunday, including a
stop work order and a building code violation. Both notices threaten to bring
criminal charges against Fernandez, 48, who immigrated to the United States from
Mexico in 1979.

"Let them put me in jail. I'm not going to remove my message," Fernandez said
this week, after spending $1,600 on lumber, plywood and white, waterproof vinyl
panels that are typically used on bathroom walls but have provided Fernandez
with a durable canvas for his thoughts.

If Fernandez receives a court order to remove the structure and fails to comply,
he might end up in jail, but it's not clear whether the city would be able to
remove the installation after that. Then again, Fernandez said that his current
message is temporary and that he might dismantle it in two months -- unless, he
said, Manassas officials "make it difficult for me."

As in the past, city leaders have sought to defuse the overarching racial and
political tensions wrapped up in Fernandez's sign by focusing on zoning
technicalities. If Fernandez had written something such as "MANASSAS IS GREAT"
on a similarly unauthorized structure, it would also have to come down, said
Mayor Harry J. "Hal" Parrish II (R).

"We're going to treat this as we would any other approach by a citizen who
starts to build something without a permit," Parrish said, adding that he was
concerned about the safety of the structure, given that it lacks a foundation or
an anchor to hold it down in bad weather. "If you get a pretty good wind, I'm
concerned the sign might be a projectile," he said.

Manassas City Manager Lawrence D. Hughes said city officials were surprised this
weekend to see Fernandez at work on a new sign, given that they'd spent a year
coaxing him and ultimately taking him to court to remove the previous
installation, which was 40 feet long and 12 feet tall. Fernandez took that one
down in September.

"We thought the issue had been resolved," Hughes said. "I think we're a little
frustrated he's taken this action after agreeing to take the other sign down."

Members of the Manassas Old Town Business Association were less reserved in
their ire at the new sign.

"It's terrible," said association President Joanne Wunderly, who can see
Fernandez's message across the train tracks from her shop, The Things I Love.
"It's blatant disregard for the law, and it's something we're going to have to
deal with again. We're trying to make Old Town a charming place to visit and
live instead of a place for controversy."

But Fernandez said the sign is an outlet for the frustrations of Hispanic
immigrants who feel discriminated against and ignored. "We have to raise our
voices for them to hear our necessities," he said. He then elaborated on his
long-term plans for the parcel, where a rental house he and his wife purchased
in 2003 once stood. It burned down in 2006 -- the result, fire marshals
determined, of poor upkeep and an improperly used extension cord.

Now's it's an empty lot with a graffiti-covered tree stump and Fernandez's
highly visible sign.

"We don't intend to have any building on this property for at least 10 years,"
he said. "We plan to have this property as a place of future struggle, because
this is not going to end tomorrow."

On Monday evening, Fernandez placed a thin sheet of plastic over the sign to
protect it from the snow. He said he planned to stage a rally at the location at
9 a.m. tomorrow, hoping to gather supporters who could accompany him to his
court date with city attorneys.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Loudoun County

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Nick Miroff -- The Washington Post; The 64-foot-long sign
that appeared this week in a vacant lot at 9500 Liberty St. replaces a similar
sign torn down in September.
IMAGE; By Nick Miroff -- The Washington Post; Gaudencio Fernandez works on the
sign. "Let them put me in jail. I'm not going to remove my message," he said.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 7, 2009 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

Death Spurs 911 Drive To Assure Immigrants

BYLINE: David Betancourt; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 439 words


D.C. officials yesterday launched a "Call 911" campaign and scheduled a series
of meetings in Columbia Heights to ease Hispanic immigrants' fear of police.

The effort was announced at a midday vigil for Jose Sanchez, a 31-year-old man
who lay fatally  injured for almost 20 minutes on a sidewalk last month as more
than 150 people walked by. No one called 911 for Sanchez, who had hit his head
on the sidewalk after being pushed during an argument. Bystanders and community
leaders said many were afraid to call authorities for fear of being asked about
their immigration status. Eventually a worker from a nearby market called for an
ambulance. Two men have been charged in Sanchez's death.

Mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) attended the vigil, as did about 60 others, many
wearing white shirts to symbolize a call for peace. The Call 911 campaign will
include leaflets and a series of meetings in which police and city officials
will stress that emergency workers do not ask about immigration status and that
safety is their only concern.

"A loss that could have been prevented is a greater tragedy," Fenty said. "Let's
try to learn from what happened. We care about our neighbors, and it's up to us
to look out for our neighbors."

Adrian Althoff, the community outreach coordinator for the Central American
Resource Center in Columbia Heights, known as CARECEN, said the Call 911
campaign is a good start in reestablishing a relationship between police and
immigrants.

"Many members of the Latino community feel isolated and feel like they're not
being taken into account," Althoff said. "We want to strengthen the ongoing
efforts. The 911 campaign sounds like something that is going in the right
direction. A lot of times, a lack of English or immigration status can cause
anxiety. Hopefully these campaigns can increase the use of 911 in the
community."

Yesterday's vigil took place at 14th and Parkwood streets NW in Columbia
Heights, on the corner where Sanchez lay injured Jan. 27. He died three days
later. After the brief ceremony, carnations were placed at the spot where
Sanchez collapsed.

Rodrigo Leiva, executive director of the Latino Federation of Greater
Washington, said calling authorities in emergencies is one of many issues facing
the Hispanic community.

"To leave someone to die instead of helping them is wrong," Leiva said. "The
bigger issue here is how this reflects on how people treat immigrants. That
insensitivity is the issue. We need to recognize that we need to support our
immigrant community and be sensitive to their needs."

The first community meeting is scheduled for Feb. 18 at La Cabana Restaurante on
14th Street.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 8, 2009 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Stewart Softens Tone, Shifts Focus From Immigration to Economy

BYLINE: Kristen Mack; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 1063 words


Virginia Republican Corey A. Stewart built his reputation as a combative
ideological firebrand who wanted to tackle head-on the quandary of illegal
immigration.

But over the past several months, home values have plummeted, state Republicans
have suffered repeated electoral defeats and the public has become consumed by
economic concerns. So Stewart, the pugnacious chairman of the Prince William
Board of County Supervisors, began setting his sights on a new mission:
navigating Republican loyalists out of the immigration debate with the same
vigor he used to help draw them into it.

Stewart's approach is to push Republicans away from their emphasis on social
issues and back in the direction of pocketbook concerns. Stewart, once the
leading voice on tackling immigration, now carries a mantra of lower taxes to
gatherings of statewide Republicans, to lawmakers in Richmond and to the board
chambers where he helps guide county policy. And he has championed it in a
manner unfamiliar to many who clashed with him on immigration.

"Some people like a combative politician," Stewart said. "More like the
politician who gets things done. That's the superior qualification. That's what
I want to be known for."

Last year, Stewart boasted that statewide and local lawmakers needed someone to
"beat up on them." That tone is gone.

"I've gradually learned that the role of the chairman is as consensus-builder,
and that's something that has not been a strong suit for me," said Stewart, 40,
who represented the Occoquan District on the board before being elected
chairman. "My mind-set has changed a little bit. When you are a district
supervisor, it's easy to be a bomb-thrower and not worry about the
consequences."

The chairman has invited supervisors out for one-on-one lunches over the past
few months. He held a get-together for the board at the upscale Homestead resort
during the annual Virginia Association of Counties meeting in November. And in
December he hosted a Christmas party for board members and their families at his
home.

Rather than headline a recent press conference solo, he asked Supervisor John D.
Jenkins (Neabsco), the longest-serving board member  and one of only two
Democrats, to share the microphone.

"There is no reason to posture for anything right now," Maureen S. Caddigan
(R-Dumfries) said. "There are no positions for him to run for, so it's a good
time to work together and govern."

Stewart is not only intent on changing his image with colleagues. He is
attending ribbon-cuttings and community meetings and speaking at events, such as
the recent police academy graduation, the first one he has gone to in his five
years in office. At times, he is finding it difficult to shake his ties to
anti-illegal-immigration efforts.

After Stewart talked to the police recruits about the county's "reputation as a
trailblazing community," Police Chief Charlie T. Deane stepped to the microphone
with unusually pointed remarks.

Deane said resident satisfaction with the police department decreased in the
county's annual survey last year, most prominently among the Hispanic community.

"I can only conclude that the decline in survey results is in response to the
police department's new role in illegal-immigration enforcement and strident
expectations voiced by some that the police department do even more than the law
allows," Deane said. "In simple terms, I expect you to treat all people with
respect, professionalism and dignity -- regardless of their background,
ethnicity, economic status, station in life or their immigration status."

Stewart said afterward that he was receptive to the chief's message.

"I know he has lingering angst about it," Stewart said of the county's
immigration policy, which requires officers to run the name of everyone arrested
through a federal database to determine residency status. "I can't begrudge him
that. He is a good soldier, and he is doing his job. The debate about illegal
immigration is over."

Claire Guthrie GastaÃ±aga, who represents immigrant groups before the General
Assembly, said she has seen interest in the topic decline sharply. She says the
2007 legislative races in Virginia confirmed that illegal immigration is not a
"magic carpet you can ride into office."

"Many of the folks who were carrying the measures realized it wasn't to their
political benefit to get out there on those issues," she said.

About the time interest in Stewart's signature issue started to flag, his
political career hit a rough spot. He had been plotting a bid for lieutenant
governor this year, but those plans were dashed when Lt. Gov. Bill Bolling (R)
decided to seek reelection.

Stewart still has his eyes on Richmond. He plans to make his presence felt this
year by helping to rebuild a party that has suffered a string of dispiriting
electoral setbacks.

Stewart said there is nothing wrong with the conservative message. The problem,
he said, is that the GOP has not delivered on its promise of smaller government.
"We need to reclaim our brand and our credibility," he said.

Immigration does not appear to have a place in that effort. "During the period
when immigration was front and center, there was a small group of people driving
the discourse. But when the economy tanked, people went back to their basic
concerns," said Debra Lattanzi Shutika, director of the Mason Project on
Immigration and the Center for Social Science Research at George Mason
University.

"Politicians are guided by the political climate and issues that will give them
the most currency," she said.

Although illegal immigration dominated Prince William's budget and policy
discussions last year,  Stewart is now concentrating on balancing the budget
through cuts.

Supervisor Martin E. Nohe (R-Coles) said it's way too early for him to declare
victory on that effort.

"We don't know anything for sure yet," Nohe said. "Too many board members have
put their stakes in the ground without knowing what the financial picture is."

Jenkins said he used to take issue with Stewart using the chairman's seat as a
bully pulpit for his partisan agenda. He acknowledges that Stewart has changed
but said he thinks Stewart had little choice.

"Corey was so badly damaged politically because of his actions on immigration,"
Jenkins said. "He is trying to put that tarnished image away and show
leadership. That probably forms the basis of his actions in reshaping his
image."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Board of County Supervisors Chairman Corey A. Stewart.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 14, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Washington & the Nation

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 93 words

Tens of Thousands of Deported Parents

More than 100,000 parents whose children are U.S. citizens were deported over a
10-year period ending in 2007, a Department of Homeland Security investigation
has found. The parents were expelled for immigration violations or because they
had committed crimes. The department's inspector general, Richard L. Skinner,
said the numbers were incomplete because Immigration and Customs Enforcement
does not fully document such cases. ICE said it would study whether it can
gather better information.

SOURCE: Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Ric Francis -- Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 20, 2009 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

ICE Stops Using Jail in Pr. William After Fatality;
50 Laid Off Amid Probe of Nov. Death

BYLINE: Nick Miroff and Josh White; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1000 words


The November death of a Prince William County man in immigration custody at
Piedmont Regional Jail has prompted Immigration and Customs Enforcement to
suspend placing  detainees at the facility, three hours south of the District
near Farmville, Va.

In recent years, the rural county jail has contracted with ICE at rock-bottom
rates to become a principal storehouse for non-citizen detainees from Northern
Virginia and the District awaiting deportation. But since the Nov. 28 death of
detainee Guido Newbrough, ICE has launched an investigation into medical care at
the facility, and its detainee population has fallen from 330 to 53 as of
Wednesday. The jail laid off 50 of its 135 employees this week.

"There is no effort underway to cease utilizing Piedmont. However, we have
stopped housing detainees at Piedmont while we continue to monitor current
conditions at the facility," said Cori Bassett, an ICE spokeswoman.

The suspension comes at a particularly sensitive time for Piedmont and the town
of Farmville, which has 7,000 residents. Piedmont had been earning $46.25 a day
for each of the ICE detainees it housed in dormitory-style cells with triple
bunk beds. Business was so robust that a group of investors announced a deal
with Farmville officials last year to build a $21 million, 1,000-bed, privately
run immigration detention facility there, pledging to convert the job-starved
town into a hub for ICE operations in the mid-Atlantic.

But on the day after Thanksgiving, Newbrough died at a Richmond hospital, the
second Piedmont detainee death in less than two years. Autopsy reports finished
last month showed that Newbrough, 48, who came to Virginia from Germany at age
6, suffered from massive organ failure brought on by an untreated bacterial
infection. His family and fellow detainees alleged that Newbrough's requests for
medical care were ignored and that he had been placed in an isolation cell
despite his illness.

Piedmont officials dispute those claims, and ICE has refused to say when its
investigation will be complete or if those findings will be made public.

Farmville officials have sought to distance their project, which is several
months behind schedule, from recent events at Piedmont.

If the new facility is completed, plans call for ICE to contract with the town
of Farmville, which will in turn contract with ICA-Farmville, the investor group
that is preparing to build and operate the private jail. It promises to bring
hundreds of jobs to the area, offsetting the steady erosion of the town's
industrial base.

Piedmont Superintendent Ernest Toney stressed that his facility and the new jail
are separate entities and don't deserve to be lumped together. "There is no tie
between us and ICA," he said.

But at least two Farmville town council members are top officials at Piedmont:
Donald Hunter, the assistant superintendent, and Edward Gordon, the jail's
medical director.

Gordon declined to discuss the layoffs, saying he wasn't aware of the jail's
finances. But other Farmville officials acknowledge that the cuts are a tough
blow at a bad time.

"It's a tremendous loss anytime you lose that many jobs," said Town Manager
Gerald Spates, emphasizing that the town is not involved in the jail's
operations.

Spates, who has become the de facto spokesman for the jail project because
ICA-Farmville investors decline all interview requests, said he believes the
project is more important than ever because it could bring in hundreds of jobs
similar to those lost at Piedmont.

The new facility was slated to begin taking ICE detainees as early as June,
which now appears unlikely. Spates said the downturn in financial markets
delayed financing, but that ICA-Farmville assured him this week that loans have
been approved and the company is planning to proceed with the project. It would
be ICA's first detention facility.

"They've invested too much to back out of the project," Spates said, adding that
he thinks there are enough ICE detainees in the region to warrant the new
facility.

To date, ICE has made no formal commitment to Farmville or the investors. In
contracts between the town and the federal government, the agency does not
guarantee that a single detainee will be placed in the new facility, although it
appears from documents obtained by The Washington Post through the Freedom of
Information Act that ICE would like to house thousands of detainees there if it
meets strict operational standards.

Plans call for the ICA facility to be a regional detention destination with room
to expand to up to 2,500 beds, as well as a transportation hub, potentially with
federal courtrooms on-site.

Meantime, ICE has been housing its detainees elsewhere. The number of ICE
inmates at the Hampton Roads Regional Jail in Portsmouth has nearly doubled in
recent months, to 363 as of yesterday, according to jail officials.

The number of ICE detainees being held in Virginia jails has fallen sharply in
the past few months, from an average of 1,073 per day between October 2007 and
September 2008, to 597 a day in the past four months, according to ICE. The
number of new detainees coming into the system has remained steady.

Inmates picked up locally can be transferred to larger ICE facilities in Texas,
Georgia, Florida and elsewhere while awaiting deportation, said Kathy Doan,
executive director of the Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition, which
provides services and legal aid to immigrant detainees in the region.

"We don't know where they've gone," said Doan, who explained that the agency
does not have a system to tell family members and attorneys where detainees have
been sent.

ICE said the reduction is the result of the agency's speeding up the deportation
process and increasing the use of alternatives to detention, such as
ankle-bracelet monitoring.

ICE spokeswoman Bassett said the agency moves detainees for a variety of
reasons.

"For safety and security reasons, we don't comment on possible future agency
actions regarding the transfer of detainees," she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2009 Tuesday



CORRECTION: Â· The headline on a Feb. 20 Metro article misstated the location of
a jail where the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has halted
detentions. The Piedmont Regional Jail is in Prince Edward County, not Prince
William County.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 27, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Homeland Security | $43 Billion -- 6%

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 116 words


The Department of Homeland Security's budget includes few new initiatives and
would barely increase under Obama's proposal, though some big-ticket items were
funded by the recently passed stimulus package.

DHS is the only Cabinet department whose discretionary funds are forecast to
drop annually after this year through 2014. The loss is supposed to be offset by
phasing in a per-ticket airline passenger security fee after 2012, a proposal
that Congress has repeatedly killed.

Obama included $368 million to sustain the Border Patrol at a planned 20,000
agents and carve out more money, $1.4 billion, for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement programs to deport illegal immigrants who commit crimes.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 2, 2009 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Muslim Sent Home;
A Legal Visa Holder Meets Unreason at Dulles

BYLINE: John Marks

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 785 words


On Jan. 26, my office received a call from an immigration agent at Dulles
International Airport, who said that my colleague Rashad Bukhari had been
refused entry to the United States. He was not charged with anything, the agent
said, and would be eligible for a future visa.

In fact, when Rashad arrived at Dulles, his Pakistani passport contained a
valid, multi-entry visa, issued less than two years before by the U.S. State
Department in Islamabad. He used this visa in 2007 to enter the United States
without difficulty. Rashad is 36, and he worked for two American organizations,
including the U.S. Institute of Peace, before he joined us at Search for Common
Ground in 2007. He is Urdu-language editor of our Common Ground News Service,
whose goal is to build bridges between the Muslim world and the West.

Immigration officials at Dulles could have easily verified all of this if Rashad
had been allowed to make a phone call or if they themselves had chosen to check.
Rather, they detained him for 15 hours, temporarily took away his cellphone and
laptop, and eventually put him on a plane back to Pakistan. They prepared a
transcript of the encounter in which an official justifies the United States not
honoring Rashad's visa by saying, "You appear to be an intending [sic]
immigrant."

Rashad answered that he has a wife and three children in Pakistan, that his job
is based there, that he had a return ticket and that he had no intention of
remaining in the United States.

Rashad later told us that the agent said -- in words that do not appear in the
transcript -- that if he "voluntarily" withdrew and did not try appealing to
more senior immigration officials, he would have a chance to return to the
United States after getting a new visa; otherwise, he would face a five-year
ban. In either case, Rashad was told, he would have to leave.

Faced with this Hobson's choice, Rashad "voluntarily" left the country.

Rashad noted afterward, "The immigration officer was actually very polite and
remained nice to me. We chatted a little about my work and about international
politics. He said, as an individual, he regretted the decision, saying he saw me
as a good man. He repeatedly suggested that I should come back again with a new
visa. He told me that he had studied history and politics and said that the work
I am doing is more important than any military action."

Since Sept. 11, 2001, I have heard of many incidents similar to this one. My
first reaction when I was told about Rashad's treatment was: In dealing with
immigration and visa issues, nothing can be done.

And no, I do not believe that what happened to Rashad, who is Muslim, would have
occurred to, say, a white Englishman of the same age.

I travel frequently to Muslim countries, and I know there is a widely held
perception that the United States is not a welcoming place for Muslims. This has
done serious damage to our national reputation at a time when  improving the
U.S. image in Pakistan and other Muslim countries and rallying support against
extremism are major American foreign policy objectives.

I also know that, only days before this incident, Barack Obama declared in his
inaugural address, "To the Muslim world, we seek a new way forward, based on
mutual interest and mutual respect."

I hope that means the Obama administration will carry out a full review of
policies and procedures regarding how immigration officers deal with Muslims
from other countries. There need not be a contradiction between securing our
borders and providing equitable treatment to all those who wish to enter the
United States legally.

And, on the human level, it would be wonderful if the federal government
apologized to Rashad and to others who have been badly treated at our airports
and borders.

Rashad later told me, "My friends in Pakistan, as well as in [the] U.S., are
equally disturbed and upset. I prefer to go where I am welcome. Please
understand how many layers of impact such incidents create. At a personal level,
it puts a stain on my record and a question mark over my future international
travel; at a more general level, it reinforces the negative reality that we at
Search for Common Ground are trying to shift. I understand that security
agencies need to protect their country from harm. And I support them. But
unnecessary screening and overreacting because of distant fears and suspicions
do not get us anywhere."

Rashad concluded his message with the hope that what happened to him will be a
"catalyst for positive change." Would that this will be the case.

The writer is president and founder of Search for Common Ground, a
Washington-based nonprofit organization that works to find peaceful solutions to
conflict around the world.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 8, 2009 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Immigrants' Children Look Closer for Love;
More Young Adults Are Seeking Partners of Same Ethnicity

BYLINE: Annie Gowen; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1194 words


Katie Xiao emigrated from China when she was 4 and always thought of herself as
Americanized -- until she started dating.

Subtle cultural clashes with Caucasian or Latino boyfriends led to unhappy
breakups. It made her realize she's more Chinese than she thought. Now she wants
to meet a man of Asian descent.

She has recently gone to a chocolate tasting in the District and a cocktail
mixer at Arlington County's Zen Bistro, both catering to Asian Americans and
immigrants. She spent Valentine's Day weekend making contacts at a Harvard
Business School conference called "Asia in a Whole New World."

Sociologists and demographers are just beginning to study how the children of
immigrants who have flowed into the country in recent years will date and marry.
The generation that is coming of age is the most open-minded in history and
living in the Obama era -- where hues mingle in classrooms, nightclubs and the
White House. Conventional wisdom has it that they will begin choosing spouses of
other ethnicities as the number of interracial marriages rises.

But scholars delving into the U.S. Census have found a surprising converse
trend. Although interracial marriages overall have increased, the rate of
Hispanics and Asians marrying partners of other races declined in the past two
decades. This suggests that the growing number of immigrants is having a
profound effect  on coupling, they say.

The number of native- and foreign-born people marrying outside their race fell
from 27 to 20 percent for Hispanics and 42 to 33 percent for Asians from 1990 to
2000, according to Ohio State University sociologist Zhenchao Qian, who
co-authored a study on the subject. The downward trend continued through last
year, Qian said.

"The immigrant population fundamentally changes the pool of potential partners
for Asians and Hispanics. It expands the number and reinforces the culture,
which means the second generation . . . is more likely to marry people of their
own ethnicity," said Daniel T. Lichter, a sociologist at Cornell University.

Increasingly, singles are turning to a growing number of niche dating sites on
the Internet, such as http://Shaadi.com and http://Persiansingles.com. Locally,
one of the largest social networking groups, Professionals in the City, has
expanded its repertoire of lectures and wine-tastings over the past year to
include "speed dating" nights for people of Asian, Latino or South Asian
descent.

Michael Karlan, Professionals' president, said targeting ethnic groups makes
sense in the Washington area, which has more than 1 million immigrants. He
teamed with the local South Asian networking group NetSAP for a recent event at
Gua-Rapo in Arlington that was a noisy sellout with more than 90 attendees.

The 20- and 30-somethings drawn to these events say they have a deep yearning to
connect with someone who shares their roots, yet they are conflicted about it.
As children, they felt divided loyalties, growing up with one foot in their
parents' home country, the other in the United States. Now, as adults, they
wonder: Would I be happy with someone as American as I am, or a recent
immigrant?

"People grow up the entire time rebelling to our parents, doing everything we
could to fit in and spending the majority of our time running away from the
traditions and our heritage," said Bhavna Pandit, a political consultant of
Indian descent who lives in the District. "Now I'm 29 years old, and I actually
care about this stuff." Like many women in the Washington area, she says it's
difficult to find a nice guy. And because she's looking for an Indian man, it's
harder -- they are in short supply in the Capitol Hill circles she runs in.

Even minor issues can become a big deal, singles say, such as a boyfriend who
was wearing a T-shirt with a risquÃ© slogan on it when he went to meet a woman's
conservative Iranian parents. One 27-year-old woman is a successful energy
financier who goes to clubs in Georgetown but believes an American man wouldn't
understand her Indian values. She still lives with her parents in Tysons Corner,
and they follow tradition by pooling their salaries as a family.

Researchers spent a decade following 3,300 children of immigrants in the New
York region as they navigated adulthood, which led to a study published last
year called "Inheriting the City: The Children of Immigrants Come of Age." They
followed both the "second generation" children born in the United States and the
"1.5 generation" -- children of immigrants who came as youngsters -- who were
Dominican, Chinese, Russian Jews, South Americans and West Indians.

Researchers found that their subjects were constantly struggling with the desire
to be open to people of all backgrounds vs. family expectations, and their own
desires to sustain their culture. Most paired with others who shared similar
racial or language backgrounds.

Many offspring of immigrants have tradition-minded parents who forbade them to
date in high school. Now those same parents are pressuring their children to
marry soon after they graduate from college. One Arlington graduate student, 25,
fields telephone calls from her mother on the subject daily; she had one date
recently, and her mother was already referring to the man by a pet name, which
roughly translates from Chinese as "Little Cabbage."

"They make little comments, like, 'Have I found anyone?' and 'We just met our
friends who have grandchildren,' " said Rich Park, 33, a Korean American from
Annandale. "I want someone who understands what my life story is. I'm the oldest
son, so there are some responsibilities I have to do, like be the communicator
between my sibling as well as my cousins. If my parents need anything, I'll be
the first to be asked."

Their forebears often met spouses through family introductions or arranged
marriages. Now families are spread over the globe, and modern love seekers don't
want a mate whom their parents found in a note tacked on their temple's events
board. The researchers behind "Inheriting the City" found their subjects to be
far more open-minded than their parents, whose views could be affected by racial
or cultural bias in their home countries.

On a recent night in the back of the dimly lit Zen Bistro and Wine Bar in
Arlington, Park and Xiao were among about 30 singles who gathered on bar stools
and low-slung leather couches to chat. Karlan moved through the room at
four-minute intervals, telling the men when to switch seats. Participants took
notes on their prospective dates; they would learn later through an anonymous
e-mail system whether they had a match.

One whom Xiao met in recent weeks stands out: a Korean American lawyer about her
age. She has seen him a few times.

She is starting to feel "kind of nurturing" toward him. Recently, for example,
they were having cocktails at the bar at Zaytinya in downtown Washington, and
his jacket collar was mussed. She reached over to smooth it.

She likes his funky black glasses and sturdy physique and the self-deprecating
way he writes his e-mails. ("You'll probably find this really boring but . . . "
he sometimes writes, prefacing a brainy thought. )

That's very Asian, she thinks. It feels like home.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; At a "speed dating"
party for South Asian professionals in Arlington, Mira Patel, 32, of the
District has a four-minute meeting with a potential mate.
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Michael Karlan of the social
networking group Professionals in the City instructs singles when to rotate to
the next "date."
IMAGE; By Richard A. Lipski -- The Washington Post; Katie Xiao, left, and Evelyn
Hu meet with potential suitors. Xiao, who immigrated here at age 4, says she has
realized she is more Chinese than she thought.
IMAGE; By Sarah L. Voisin -- The Washington Post; Shubham Tyagi and Nancy Desai
have a quick get-to-know-you talk at a dating event for South Asian
professionals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 13, 2009 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

'Crossing': Over the Top;
Message Movie Is Tripped by Its Excesses -- and Earnestness

BYLINE: Ann Hornaday; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 521 words


"Crossing Over"  is the kind of movie that gives Hollywood liberalism not a bad
name, nor a good name, but an irritating, self-righteous and ultimately fatuous
name.

The multilinear story involving illegal immigrants clearly takes its structural
cue from such similarly tangled roundelays as "Crash" and "Babel." But the
cinematic comparisons don't end there. As "Crossing Over" makes its patronizing
points, by way of two-dimensional characters and billboarded plot points, it
recalls other, better movies that dealt with the same subjects far more deftly.
This will come as a particular surprise to fans of director Wayne Kramer's Las
Vegas thriller "The Cooler," which was one of the most understated and subtle
surprises of 2003.

Harrison Ford does his level, gruffly sardonic best playing Max Brogan, a Los
Angeles Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent under whose scarred exterior
beats a bleeding heart of gold. ("This man is having a [expletive] heart
attack!" he bellows on behalf of one of his charges at one point. "I want him
seen to!") When he arrests an illegal garment worker, she begs him to take care
of her young son, an encounter that sends him on a journey of -- what else? --
personal redemption.

Ray Liotta, Ashley Judd and Jim Sturgess also appear, as an immigration
official, a lawyer and a musician on the prowl for a green card, respectively.
In supporting roles, the terrific New Zealand-born actor Cliff Curtis plays
Brogan's fiery Iranian American partner; Summer Bishil ("Towelhead") portrays a
15-year-old Muslim girl whose naivete leads to preposterous ends; and Alice Eve,
who looks like a digitally morphed combination of Naomi Watts and Nicole Kidman,
plays an actress who wants to be the next Naomi Watts or Nicole Kidman.

But wait, there's more! We haven't even gotten to the Korean kid being tempted
by gangbangers. Indeed, there's always more in "Crossing Over," whose
characters, story lines, plot twists and polemical talking points are way too
numerous -- and tiresome, and predictable -- to mention. Through it all, Ford
and Judd manage best to overcome the script, with Ford retaining his craggy
dignity and Judd ever-radiant despite dialogue so stilted you can hear the
keystrokes behind every word.

It takes a particular kind of warped skill to make a movie that's simultaneously
didactic and exploitative, but Kramer manages to thread just that unfortunate
needle, alternating windy speeches about the American dream with lurid scenes of
sex and violence.

The themes of tradition, assimilation, post-9/11 paranoia, random acts of
bureaucratic injustice and intercultural tension have been adroitly portrayed in
such recent releases as "Under the Same Moon," "Persepolis," "The Visitor" and
"Gran Torino," to name just a few. Each of those films tapped into the timeless,
universal themes Kramer seems unable to wrap his arms around. Maybe if he had
kept "Crossing Over" simpler, he would have made a less simplistic movie.

Crossing Over (113 minutes, at AMC Hoffman, AMC Georgetown and Landmark's
Bethesda Row) is rated R for pervasive profanity, strong violence, sexuality and
nudity.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Dale Robinette -- Weinstein Co. Via Associated Press; Jamison
Haase and Harrison Ford are among those tangled up in the morass of story lines,
plot twists and polemics in the drama about border agents and illegal
immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Ellis Island Immigrants' Medical Odyssey

BYLINE: Stephen Reiss; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 634 words


The Statue of Liberty can be easily seen through the windows of the abandoned
public health hospital on Ellis Island. Famously, she urges the ancient empires
of the world to "Give me your tired, your poor. . . . The wretched refuse of
your teeming shore."

Well, sometimes yes, sometimes no. That heartening view of Emma Lazarus's
"Mother of Exiles" encompasses one of the great contradictions of the United
States, a nation of immigrants that is eternally uncomfortable with immigration.

"Forgotten Ellis Island," a PBS documentary, studiously explores that tension
from the vantage point of the Ellis Island Hospital. In these 22 buildings,
spread across two small islands in New York Harbor, representatives of the
United States government strove gallantly to be a light unto the nations -- with
"justice for all" -- while simultaneously exhibiting some of the common
prejudices and ignorance that still greet many immigrants to this country.

The hospital opened in the midst of an incredible wave of immigration. An
estimated 25 million people came to the  United States between 1880 and 1924 and
half of them arrived at Ellis Island. (The country had a population of just 50
million, according to the 1880 Census.) As the ships pulled in, wealthy
passengers were able to proceed on their way with a minimum of fuss.

Those in steerage, however, had to pass a medical inspection designed to weed
out people who had communicable diseases, mental illness or were too weak to
work in their adopted country. Everyone had to climb up the processing center's
Grand Staircase, at the top of which stood a cadre of public health doctors
judging their progress and later -- in examinations that may have lasted no more
than 30 seconds -- their physical and mental state. Those who failed got a chalk
mark on their clothing.

What happened next captures the greatness of this country and its sometimes
maddening failings. Instead of simply being immediately sent back where they
came from, the selected men, women and children were transferred to a complex
that included a general hospital, a psychiatric ward, a maternity ward and one
for contagious diseases. The Red Cross operated an elementary school for young
patients, and the hospital kitchen included a unit that could provide kosher
food.

Germ theory was just beginning to govern the treatment of communicable disease,
and psychiatry was in its infancy. But given the standards of the time, the
level of care was remarkably high. And if they were cured, patients could rejoin
their families and begin life in the New World.

The record doesn't gleam quite so brightly when it came to the diagnosis of
mental illness. William Williams, the commissioner of Ellis Island, was
interested in the pseudo-science of eugenics. Nativists looked at most
foreigners as naturally inferior. Prospective immigrants had their heads
measured and were classified by race and ethnicity. Facial expressions were used
to diagnose mental conditions. Not surprisingly, Eastern and Southern Europeans
-- Slavs, Italians and Jews -- were disproportionately selected out and
deported.

The hospital's story is an important one and "Forgotten Ellis Island" is at its
best during the interviews with elderly immigrants recalling their experiences
on the island. Repeated shots of the crumbling buildings -- the structure was
closed in 1954 -- wear thin after a while, and the quivering score too crudely
announces "This is an emotional moment!"

But those are quibbles. This is a story about what made America. The story is
told exceptionally well at the museum on Ellis Island (where an abbreviated
version of this documentary is being shown). Until you can get there, this film
serves as a modest but fruitful introduction.

Forgotten Ellis Island (one hour) airs tonight at 10:30 on Channel 26.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; U.s. National Archives Photos; A group of patients in front of
the Ellis Island hospital, where the level of care was remarkably high for the
time, including psychiatric care and an infectious diseases ward.
IMAGE; Medical inspections at Ellis Island sometimes lasted no more than 30
seconds.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Delay in Immigration Raids May Signal Policy Change

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1176 words


Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has delayed a series of proposed
immigration raids and other enforcement actions at U.S. workplaces in recent
weeks, asking agents in her department to apply more scrutiny to the selection
and investigation of targets as well as the timing of raids, federal officials
said.

A senior department official said the delays signal a pending change in whom
agents at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement choose to prosecute --
increasing the focus on businesses and executives instead of ordinary workers.

"ICE is now scrutinizing these cases more thoroughly to ensure that [targets]
are being taken down when they should be taken down, and that the employer is
being targeted and the surveillance and the investigation is being done how it
should be done," said the official, discussing Napolitano's views about
sensitive law enforcement matters on the condition of anonymity.

"There will be a change in policy, but in the interim, you've got to scrutinize
the cases coming up," the senior DHS official said, noting Napolitano's
expectations as a former federal prosecutor and state attorney general.

Another DHS official said Napolitano plans to release protocols this week to
ensure more consistent work-site investigations and less "haphazard"
decision-making.

Napolitano's moves have led some to question President Obama's commitment to
work-site raids, which were a signature of Bush administration efforts to combat
illegal immigration. Napolitano has highlighted other priorities, such as
combating Mexican drug cartels and catching dangerous criminals who are illegal
immigrants.

Napolitano's moves foreshadow the difficult political decisions the Obama
administration faces as it decides whether to continue mass arrests of illegal
immigrant workers in sweeps of meatpackers, construction firms, defense
contractors and other employers.

Critics say workplace and neighborhood sweeps are harsh and indiscriminate, and
they accuse the government of racial profiling, violating due process rights and
committing other humanitarian abuses.

The raids have enraged Latino community and religious leaders, immigrant
advocates and civil liberties groups important to the Democratic base, who have
stepped up pressure on Obama to stop them.

At a rally last week in Chicago, Cardinal Francis George, head of the
archdiocese of Obama's home city, called on the government "to end immigration
raids and the separation of families" and support an overhaul of immigration
law. "Reform would be a clear sign this administration is truly about change,"
George said.

Also last week, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus made similar calls as the caucus met formally with Obama for the
first time.

"Raids that break up families in that way, just kick in the door in the middle
of the night, taking [a] father, a parent away, that's just not the American
way. It must stop," Pelosi added at a Capitol Hill conference on border issues
sponsored by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

But Obama also faces pressure from conservative lawmakers and many centrist
Democrats, who say that workplace enforcement is needed to reduce the supply of
jobs that attract illegal immigrants, and that any retreat in defending American
jobs in a recession could ignite a populist backlash.

When the White House announced plans last week to move more than 450 federal
agents and equipment to the border to counter Mexico's drug cartels, lawmakers
warned Napolitano against diverting money from workplace operations.

Rep. Lamar Smith (Tex.), ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee,
said the administration "appears to be using border violence as an excuse" to
undercut immigration enforcement in the nation's interior.

"It makes no sense to take funds from one priority (worksite enforcement) to
address a new priority (the growth in border violence). This is just robbing
Peter to pay Paul," Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.), the powerful chairman of the
Senate Appropriations subcommittee for homeland security, said in an e-mail.

Led by Byrd, Congress this year ordered ICE to spend $127 million on workplace
operations, $34 million more than President George W. Bush had requested.
Reducing those amounts, even in ICE's overall $5 billion budget, would provoke a
fight, senior aides in both parties said.

Napolitano has sought to chart a middle course by ordering a review of which
immigrants are targeted for arrest. While a policy is still under development,
Napolitano has said she intends to focus more on prosecuting criminal cases of
wrongdoing by companies. Analysts say they also think ICE may conduct fewer
raids, focusing routine enforcement on civil infractions of worker eligibility
verification rules.

Former Bush administration officials said their raids were also targeted against
supervisors, but that it took time to build complicated white-collar cases. In
the meantime, they said, depriving companies of their workforces and in some
cases filing criminal charges against illegal immigrant workers sent a clear
message of deterrence to both management and labor.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
seeks to reduce immigration, said Obama aides are trying to manage the issue
until an economic turnaround permits an attempt to overhaul immigration laws.

"I think their calculus is, how do they keep Hispanic groups happy enough
without angering the broader public so much that they sabotage health care and
their other priorities?" Krikorian said.

Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant
advocacy group, said that to the contrary, groups such as his support Obama's
focus on going after bad employers and criminal illegal immigrants first -- or
as he put it, prioritizing "drug smugglers, not window washers."

Within ICE, the front-office vetting of cases has led to some doubts. Last week,
for example, ICE postponed plans to raid employers at a military-related
facility in Chicago for which they had arranged to temporarily detain as many as
100 illegal immigrants, according to one official. A second official said
Napolitano thought the investigative work was inadequate.

The raid would have been the second under the Obama administration. After the
first, a Feb. 24 sweep of an engine-parts maker in Bellingham, Wash., that led
to 28 arrests, Napolitano publicly expressed disappointment that ICE did not
inform her beforehand and announced an investigation into agency communication
practices.

In response, Leigh H. Winchell, the ICE special agent in charge in Seattle,
wrote an e-mail to his staff -- subsequently leaked to conservative bloggers --
saying they had acted correctly. He also copied a statement from House
Republicans calling Napolitano's review "beyond backwards."

"You did nothing wrong and you did everything right," Winchell wrote. "I cannot
control the politics that take place with these types of situations, but I can
remind you that you are great servants of this country and this agency."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Matt Bush -- Associated Press; Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement may be shifting focus from detaining illegal workers to prosecuting
executives at the companies that employ them. A senior government official says
raids are being delayed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 30, 2009 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Hope for Haitians?;
Immigrants from the storm-ravaged island should be allowed to stay in the United
States.

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 440 words


HAITI WAS already an island of unimaginable suffering, a country ravaged by war
and roving gangs where four out of five residents lived in extreme poverty.
Then, in less than a month last year, four vicious storms lashed it, killing up
to 800 people, leaving as many as 1 million homeless and inflicting at least $1
billion in damage -- 15 percent of the country's gross domestic product. The
State Department cautions visitors that there are no "safe areas" in Haiti, and
that "kidnapping, death threats, murders, drug-related shootouts, armed
robberies, break-ins and carjackings are common." Yet, it is U.S. policy to
deport the estimated 30,000 Haitians in this country back to this hotbed of
violence and squalor. The United States grants temporary protected status (TPS)
to immigrants from countries with extreme economic or political conditions;
Haitian immigrants more than qualify.

Haitians in the United States are one of the few sources of stability for their
home country, sending back remittances that total an estimated one-fourth of the
Haiti's GDP. Deporting Haitians, and thereby diminishing millions of dollars in
what is essentially foreign aid, would devastate a country that can ill afford
to take more economic hits. A surge of deportees, who would arrive without
either homes or jobs, would also place an impossible burden on Haiti's skeletal
social services.

Critics say that granting TPS would bring a rush of Haitians to the United
States in search of citizenship. But TPS would apply only to Haitians in the
United States at the time the order is issued. As the Miami-Dade Board of County
Commissioners in Florida wrote recently in a letter to President Obama, there
was no "mass exodus" of Haitians to the United States after the Clinton
administration granted a stay of deportation in 1998.

The Bush administration was consistently inflexible on the issue, turning down
Haitian applications for TPS with minimal explanation. After last year's storms,
the Bush administration temporarily suspended the deportations, only to resume
them months later, while the country was still reeling from the disasters. The
Obama administration has so far maintained the Bush administration's policy, but
advocates have met with Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and were
encouraged by her response.

Mr. Obama recently issued an order that allowed Liberian immigrants to stay
temporarily in the United States. Immigrants from Somalia, El Salvador,
Nicaragua and Honduras have also been granted TPS in recent years. Why are
immigrants from a disaster-wracked country that is the poorest in the hemisphere
less deserving?

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

To Live With 'The Love of My Life'

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 102 words


Thanks for the March 16 editorial "Separation Anxiety."

When many people hear the word immigration, all they think about is illegal
immigrants. I am a gay man in a five-year relationship with a foreign-born
partner who is in this country legally. His visa expires next year, and we will
have to go live in exile to remain together.

All I want as a U.S. citizen is the same right that a heterosexual citizen has
-- to sponsor the love of my life so we can live here together. This issue is
really about the rights of  U.S. citizens, not about immigration.

For me and my partner, the clock is ticking.

DON GEORGE

Atlanta

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Drivers in Dilemma As Md. Shifts Gears On License Policy

BYLINE: Lisa Rein and Nick Miroff; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1123 words


As many as 350,000 licensed Maryland drivers might soon face a seemingly
impossible choice that could upend daily life for their families and gum up the
gears of the local economy: Stop driving or get behind the wheel illegally.

They're illegal immigrants but not illegal drivers. They've been carrying
licenses endorsed by Maryland governors and lawmakers for years, thanks to
policies shaped with a sensitivity to newcomers and a belief that
state-certified drivers are safer drivers. But the General Assembly is shifting
course to comply with a federal security law that requires states to issue
licenses only to lawful residents.

Lawmakers are debating whether undocumented immigrants who have licenses should
lose them or be eligible for a second-tier driving permit that would prevent
them from boarding commercial flights or entering federal buildings. Gov. Martin
O'Malley (D) has said he will sign either a bill that keeps them in the system
or stops it entirely.

Either way, as soon as June 1, illegal immigrants in Maryland will likely face
new obstacles in their ability to move around, a change with implications for
motorists across the region. Since 2006, the state has processed about 350,000
licenses for drivers using foreign documents without U.S. visa stamps.
Supporters of the change say the security of Maryland's license, which has been
vulnerable to widespread fraud, is their overarching concern.

As the debate in Annapolis has trickled out through word of mouth and
Spanish-language media, a sense of alarm and anxiety has spread to immigrant
motorists.

"I work from 8 to 5:30, and then I have to rush to get to class," said Beatriz
Aleman, 18, a Prince George's County resident who works by day as a cashier at a
carwash and studies in the evenings at Prince George's Community College. "If I
lose my license, how will I get around?"

Her father, Antonio Aleman, said he, his wife and his brother are in the same
predicament: adapted to a highly-mobile American lifestyle that doesn't require
legal residency but doesn't really work without wheels. "Why do they want to
take our licenses away?" he fretted. Undocumented families would continue to
have access to health care and public education.

Like all of the undocumented immigrants interviewed for this report, Aleman said
he would probably continue driving even if he couldn't renew his license -- a
scenario he was loath to imagine. "If I have to drive around without insurance,
it's dangerous for me as well as other people on the roads," said Aleman, who
drives a truck for his job as a metalworker.

If an accident or fender-bender can set the deportation process into motion
after an arrest for driving without a license, many drivers will choose to flee
the scene, he and others predicted.

Once, a license was just a permit to drive, issued until the late 1970s on a
piece of paper. In the 1980s, photos were pasted on laminated cards. Since the
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, that permit has become the country's primary identity
document. It's produced with all the security features of a credit card --
digital holograms, microprinting and other invisible features designed to ferret
out fraud. Even the crab on the upper right corner of Maryland's license is
secured.

In 46 states, it also is an immigration tool that separates legal from illegal,
visible from underground.

Immigrant advocates say drivers without licenses and insurance who get into
accidents will drive up insurance costs for everyone, and those who don't
receive the training that is part of the licensing process might be more prone
to accidents.

Motor Vehicle Administrator John Kuo said his agency has to weigh competing
missions of security and road safety. "We said the security issue outweighs the
benefit of safety."

The ability to drive has allowed immigrants to broaden their housing and job
prospects.

Many Hispanic immigrants are employed in construction and landscaping, jobs that
often take them to construction sites and new subdivisions beyond the reach of
the region's public transportation network.

"How would I get to work? I drive all over the region," said Rey Juarez, 33, a
Greenbelt resident who came from Guatemala eight years ago and works as a carpet
installer.

Juarez's vehicle, a black 2007 Cadillac Escalade, had become a source of pride
and status. "I could never have this in my own country," he said.

Immigrant rights advocates say the MVA could fashion a driving permit to look
almost like a full-fledged license. But Kuo said that to avoid confusion, the
card will likely have this phrase stripped across it: "Not for federal
identification purposes."

Frederick is the only Maryland county that has deputized police officers to act
as immigration agents, checking and turning over to federal authorities the
names of illegal immigrants arrested for anything from traffic infractions to
violent crimes. In recent months, Montgomery County police have started
forwarding the names of suspects arrested only for violent crimes.

Police Chief J. Thomas Manger said he is conflicted about whether denying
undocumented immigrants licenses is a good thing. "We need to do something to
stop the fraud," he said. "But I don't think public safety is enhanced in any
way if you have people driving without licenses."

An illegal immigrant caught driving without a license would be charged, "but we
will continue our policy of not asking people about their legal status," Manger
said.

Virginia stopped issuing licenses to illegal immigrants in 2004. The result,
said Manger, who retired as Fairfax County police chief that year, was a mix of
unlicensed driving and fraudulently obtained Maryland licenses. That year
Virginia courts convicted 49,124 people of driving without a license, a number
that had jumped to 62,642 by fiscal year 2007 and dipped last year to 54,282,
statistics compiled by the Department of Motor Vehicles show. The numbers do not
distinguish between legal and illegal drivers. However, Manger said that few
charged with driving without a license have never been licensed in Virginia.

The prospect of a second-tier license makes many immigrants balk. The process
would effectively create a database of Maryland's illegal immigrants, they said,
that could facilitate federal immigration efforts to deport them in the future.

"That's discrimination," said Rudy Galvez, 26, a Guatemalan who lives in Langley
Park and works for a sprinkler and fire protection services company. "I'd rather
not have anything."

But others said many would apply for the permit, if grudgingly. "In the end,
people want to drive," said Victor Illescas, 43, a Guatemalan immigrant who
manages a garage at an Exxon Station in Silver Spring. "They don't care about
entering federal buildings."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Dominic Bracco Ii For The Washington Post; Antonio Aleman and
his son Oscar, from left in mirror, talk to their cousin Luis Ventura, a legal
immigrant. "If I have to drive around without insurance, it's dangerous for me
as well as other people," Antonio Aleman says.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 8, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                Suburban Edition

Some Link Economy With Spate Of Killings;
In One Month, 57 Die In Eight Mass Murders

BYLINE: Philip Rucker; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 915 words


In Binghamton, N.Y., a Vietnamese immigrant upset about losing his job burst
into an immigration center and killed 13 people before killing himself. In
Pittsburgh, police said a gun enthusiast recently discharged from the Marine
Corps  opened fire and killed three police officers. And in Graham, Wash.,
investigators said a man whose wife was leaving him shot and killed five of his
children in their mobile home before taking his own life.

The carnage that occurred during less than 48 hours last week capped a recent
string of unusually brazen mass killings, which crime experts say have touched
more people and occurred in more public settings than in any time in recent
memory. Comparative statistics are difficult to come by, but during the past
month alone, at least eight mass homicides in this country have claimed the
lives of 57 people. Just yesterday, four people were discovered shot to death in
a modest wood-frame home in a remote Alabama town.

The factor underlying the violence, some experts think, is the dismal state of
the nation's economy. Criminologists theorize that the epidemic of layoffs, the
meltdown of storied American corporations and the uncertainty of recovery have
stoked fear, anxiety and desperation across society and unnerved its most
vulnerable and dangerous.

"I've never seen such a large number [of killings] over such a short period of
time involving so many victims," said Jack Levin, a noted criminologist at
Northeastern University who has authored or co-authored eight books on mass
murder.

The simple fact, criminologist James Alan Fox said, is that more Americans are
struggling.

"The American dream to them is a nightmare, and the land of opportunity is but a
cruel joke," said Fox, also of Northeastern, who has been dubbed the "dean of
death" for his analysis of mass murders. "The economic pie is shrinking to the
point where it looks more like a Pop Tart and some feel all they're getting is
the crumbs. There's a combination of feeling despair and hopelessness at the
same time as a certain degree of anger and blame."

Other crime experts caution, however, against drawing such conclusions.

"Because homicides are fairly rare, it is hard to see patterns even when ones
exist," said Shawn Bushway, a criminologist at the University of Albany. "It's
like reading tea leaves. I don't make much of it. I don't think you can say
anything definitively one way or another."

Predictably, the carnage has focused attention on the nation's gun laws. Paul
Helmke, president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, said it is too
easy for dangerous people to acquire guns.

"The common denominator in all these is that they're all using a gun," Helmke
said of the recent killings. "You don't see police officers in Pittsburgh being
killed by people throwing knives at them. . . . We've always had violence, but
in the old days you couldn't take out so many people so quickly. Now we make it
very easy to do that."

The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson called the recent spate of killings "domestic
terrorism" and said he hoped the slaughter would be a wake-up call for
policymakers.

"You can't grow businesses in war zones," said Jackson, who recently visited
cities beset by gun violence. "You can't go to school in war zones. You can't
play in the park in war zones."

Experts agree that most mass murderers share one trait: a traumatic event such
as a layoff, divorce or separation that sets off an internal rage and a desire
for revenge.

"It could be the loss of a job, the loss of a lot of money in the stock market,
the loss of a relationship as in a nasty separation or divorce, the loss of a
child who is in a child custody battle," Levin said. "There are just simply more
catastrophic losses than there were when the economy was in good shape."

Consider the case of Bruce Jeffrey Pardo, a 45-year-old electrical engineer
whose life swiftly turned sour last fall. His wife divorced him and he lost his
job and his beloved dog, Saki. On Christmas Eve, Pardo dressed as Santa Claus
for a holiday party hosted by his ex-wife's parents at their home at the end of
a quiet cul-de-sac in a Los Angeles suburb.

Pardo rang the bell, swung open the door and opened fire on the party guests
with a semiautomatic handgun before dousing the home with gasoline and setting
it ablaze, authorities said. He killed nine people, including his ex-wife,
before taking his own life.

"He was looking for revenge, which is almost always the motive in these mass
killings," Levin said. "It wasn't enough to get her, but he wanted to get
everything associated with her, everything she loved, everything he identified
with her."

Since then, mass shootings have plagued communities in all corners of the
country. Late last month, a gunman barged into a nursing home in Carthage, N.C.,
looking for his estranged wife. Police say he killed seven elderly residents and
a nurse who cared for them. His wife, a nurse's assistant, escaped by hiding in
a bathroom.

Five days later in Binghamton, a man wearing body armor burst into a New York
state immigration center where he had studied English and opened fire on
immigrants taking an exam to become U.S. citizens, authorities said.

"The nursing home in North Carolina and the community center in Binghamton were
not randomly chosen locations," Fox said. "It's not just some gunman walking
down the street. They're very deliberate choices and reflect the anger and blame
that the killer has."

Staff researcher Madonna Lebling contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: April 9, 2009



CORRECTION: --  An April  8 A-section  article incorrectly referred to the
University of Albany. The correct name is the University at Albany.

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Daniel Giles -- Associated Press; Another in a string of mass
slayings: Four people were found dead yesterday in this Alabama home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Every Edition

Speaking the Same Language;
Medical Providers Struggle to Communicate With Immigrant Patients

BYLINE: Eliza Barclay; Kaiser Health News

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. HE01

LENGTH: 1395 words


"Devil, devil," the man muttered.

Sabyasachi Kar, a doctor at Washington Adventist Hospital in Takoma Park, shook
his head in bewilderment. He was examining a Spanish-speaking patient with the
help of a colleague who barely spoke the language, and he was getting nowhere.

"It was frustrating. I couldn't do my job," Kar recalled. Only the next day,
when he returned with a bilingual colleague, did Kar learn the man had been
saying he felt "debil," or weak.

As immigrant communities swell around the country, hospitals, clinics and
health-care providers are increasingly confronted with language and cultural
challenges that can discourage people from seeking care and lead to calamitous
errors in diagnoses and treatment regimens.

In the Washington area, a sharp rise of the foreign-born population in the past
two decades has been met by a patchwork response in the medical field. Many area
hospitals have taken steps such as installing phones to connect patients and
staff members to interpreters, hiring interpreters or training employees to do
the job, and recruiting bilingual staff. But some large physician practices and
small primary and specialty care services have not added language or cultural
services.

"All providers in this area should . . . have a mechanism to deal with language
barriers," said Isabel van Isschot, director of interpretation services at La
Clinica del Pueblo in Washington, which supplies interpreters to health
facilities. When patients don't have access to an interpreter, she said, "I
think that's a form of discrimination."

Hospitals and doctors, however, are wary of the cost of interpretation services,
which can run up to $190 an hour; they say the government, not them, should pay
these costs.

"Appropriate funding for these services is needed so that patients don't lose
access to care," said Joseph M. Heyman, chair of the board of trustees of the
American Medical Association, which has asserted in policy statements that
"physicians cannot be expected to provide and fund . . . translation services
for their patients."

A 45-year-old federal civil rights law requires hospitals and doctors who accept
federal funds to offer language services. Some federal funding for
interpretation services is available through Medicaid and the Children's Health
Insurance Program, state-run programs that serve the poor and children,
respectively. But to obtain the money, states have to pitch in some of their
own. The District and Virginia have done so; Maryland has not.

California alone has put the funding burden on private insurers for patients who
have that coverage. Some other states are considering similar legislation, but
the issue is not a political priority in the Washington area, advocates say,
even though about 20 percent of residents in the region are foreign-born,
according to the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan think tank. Some 110 languages
are spoken here, an analysis of 2000 Census data by the U.S. English Foundation
found, making the Washington  area the sixth most linguistically diverse urban
area in the United States.

Though many immigrants speak enough English to get by in their workplace, that
may not be sufficient in the doctor's office, where medical jargon and emotional
reactions can cloud their ability to communicate.

Norma Chinchilla, 26, a Honduran immigrant living in Silver Spring, has been in
the United States for four years but has not learned English. Last year, she ran
smack into the language barrier while trying to make an appointment over the
phone for her 2-year-old son. When she reached an  English-only operator at
Children's National Medical Center, the few English words she knew seemed to
vaporize as the impatience on the other end of the line grew. She hung up,
defeated and without an appointment.

"It has been very hard to get medical care for my son without speaking English,"
Chinchilla said.

Paula Darte, public relations director for the center, says it does have a
language services office. "It's troubling that this person didn't get through
the right channels, because there's usually someone around who speaks Spanish,"
she said.

Patients with limited or no English who do manage to obtain care can still fall
prey to miscommunication. In a 2006 study published in the New England Journal
of Medicine, Glenn Flores, now a professor of pediatrics at the University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, detailed several such cases. In
one, a mother misunderstood instructions and put oral antibiotics in a child's
ears. In another, a doctor not fluent in Spanish interpreted "she hit herself"
as "I hit her," resulting in a mother's losing custody of her children.

Some interpreters say medical staff sometimes are unsympathetic to immigrants'
needs. "There is a lot of prejudice and animosity," said Rosemary Rodriguez, an
interpreter in Richmond. "Nurses say to me, 'Why don't they learn English?' or
'I know she speaks English.' "

To address the language barrier, many area hospitals have installed an array of
options. Adventist HealthCare, the parent of Washington Adventist Hospital, has
provided medical interpretation and cultural competency training to 150 of its
bilingual nurses, janitors, technicians and other staff members.

Kar, the  physician who once found it frustrating trying to communicate with
Spanish-speakers, says he can now call in a trained bilingual colleague for
assistance. And if he has a patient who speaks a rare language, such as
Bulgarian, he uses a special phone  to reach professional interpreters.

Howard University Hospital has two full-time Spanish interpreters; one full-time
Amharic, Tigrinya and French interpreter for the Ethiopian, Eritrean and French
West African communities; and one full-time Chinese interpreter.

They also interpret cultural differences. Azeb Abraham, Howard's Amharic,
Tigrinya and French interpreter, says some Ethiopian and Eritrean women feel
uncomfortable undressed in the presence of male doctors,  so she helps the
doctors figure out how to examine the women in a way that does not offend them.

Inova Fairfax Hospital in Falls Church has several full-time interpreters and
700 staff members trained to interpret on the fly in some 35 languages.

Alicia Ellis, one of Inova Fairfax's full-time medical interpreters, recently
got a call for help with a pregnant Nicaraguan woman complaining of vaginal
bleeding.

Ellis hurried into a labor and delivery ward to find Juana Varela, 36, lying on
her back, her ample belly protruding between the top and bottom of her hospital
gown. Ellis explained she was there to interpret for Colleen Pineda, the nurse
who would perform the preliminary examination. Ellis began to speak for Varela:
"I woke up in the morning with pain and bleeding, and now I'm worried this birth
won't be normal."

"When did the pain begin?" Pineda asked in English. Ellis repeated the question
to Varela in Spanish, her eyes cast down to deflect attention from herself and
create a seamless link between doctor and patient.

Other health-care organizations have been slower to invest in interpretation
services. George Washington University Medical Faculty Associates, a practice
that sees about 4,600 patients per day (more than five times the number treated
at Inova Fairfax), has no full-time staff interpreters but a few bilingual staff
members.  According to  the group's chief executive, Stephen Badger, "The cost
of interpreters is expensive and usually is greater than the payment we receive
[from Medicaid] for the health care actually provided."

Montgomery County provides professional medical interpreters to clinics at no
cost, according to Sonia Mora, manager of the Latino Health Initiative at the
county's Department of Health and Human Services.

Mora says that there is still a tremendous need in immigrant communities that is
not being met and that providers who do have capacity have a huge burden thrust
on them. But, she says, she has seen language services improve significantly in
the last five years. "Now we're starting to see that it's going to save us
money, because people are going to be healthier," she said.

This article was produced through a collaboration between The Post and Kaiser
Health News. KHN is a service of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan
health-care-policy research organization unaffiliated with Kaiser Permanente.
Comments: health@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: District-Maryland

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2009 Wednesday



CORRECTION: --  An April 21 Health article incorrectly said that Inova Fairfax
Hospital has several full-time interpreters and 700 full-time staff members
trained to interpret in some 35 languages. Those are the numbers for the Inova
Health System, which has four hospitals in Northern Virginia.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 787 words


PUERTO RICO

Workers Strike, March To Protest Layoff Plans

 Tens of thousands of workers shut down San Juan's financial district Friday as
they marched to protest the impending layoffs of 30,000 government employees.

Clutching banners and banging tambourines, the protesters criticized newly
elected Gov. Luis FortuÃ±o (R) over his plan that would affect about 14 percent
of the public workforce and save $2 billion a year.

FortuÃ±o presented this week a $7.7 billion budget that aims to cut a $3.2
billion deficit.

The work stoppage, organized by five of Puerto Rico's largest labor unions,
froze public transportation, interrupted classes and shuttered dozens of
offices.

-- Associated Press

IMMIGRATION

Swine Flu May Have Hurt Rallies' Turnout

Immigrants and their families gathered at rallies across the country Friday to
push for changes to U.S. immigration policy, but as a swine flu outbreak
continued to spread, attendance at some events was smaller than organizers had
hoped.

Organizers had hoped crowds would equal or exceed those of last year, down from
the 2006 turnout, when a stringent immigration bill poised to pass in Congress
drew massive protests.

A new immigration bill before Congress provides a path to citizenship for the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States. Thousands
were expected in support of the measure at events in Houston, Los Angeles,
Chicago, New York and other cities -- mostly in the late afternoon, when workers
finished their shifts. But early reports suggested turnout would be far lower
than in previous years.

-- Associated Press

FOREST SERVICE

Caves Being Closed as Bat Deaths Are Probed

The U.S. Forest Service is preparing to close thousands of caves and former
mines in national forests in 33 states for up to a year in an effort to control
a fungus that has already killed an estimated 500,000 bats.

Forest Service biologist Becky Ewing said an emergency order was issued last
week for caves in 20 states from Minnesota to Maine. A second order covering the
Forest Service's 13-state Southern Region should be issued later this month.

The orders follow a March request by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for
people to voluntarily stay out of caves in 17 states.

Bats have been dying at alarming rates from what scientists call "white-nose
syndrome," so-named because it appears as a white powder on the face and wings
of hibernating bats. The problem was first spotted in New York and within two
years has spread to caves in West Virginia and Virginia.

Researchers think the fungus is spread from bat to bat, but they have not ruled
out a human connection, said Dennis Krusac, a biologist with the Southern
Region.

-- Associated Press

Airman Charged in Miscarriage: An Air Force court-martial began Monday in Alaska
for an airman facing charges that he laced his wife's food with ulcer medication
to force her to miscarry. Airman 1st Class Scott Boie of Milton, Wis., is
charged with assault and causing the death of the fetus. Boie's attorneys say
his wife's history of smoking and troubled pregnancies may have caused the
miscarriage last year.

U.S. Official Expects N. Korean Nuclear Test: A senior Obama administration
official said Friday that he expects that North Korea will test a nuclear weapon
before it is forced back to international disarmament negotiations. "It's very
clear that the North Koreans want to pick a fight. They want to kill the
six-party talks," said Gary Samore, President Obama's policy coordinator for
weapons of mass destruction. North Korea vowed to quit six-nation nuclear
negotiations and restart its atomic program after the U.N. Security Council's
criticism of the North's launch of a long-range missile on April 5. North Korea
also expelled all international monitors from its nuclear facilities.

Former Texas Sheriff Aided Drug Trafficking: A former south Texas sheriff
pleaded guilty Friday to a drug trafficking charge for sharing information with
a Mexican drug ring. Reymundo Guerra entered the plea to conspiring to
distribute narcotics while he was Starr County sheriff. Guerra could face a
sentence of 10 years to life in prison. Federal prosecutors said Guerra helped
the Mexican Gulf Cartel to operate in his county and endangered fellow law
enforcement agents by sharing names of confidential informants.

Police Find Georgia Professor's Jeep: Authorities on Friday swarmed a heavily
wooded area in north Georgia, where a wrecked Jeep belonging to a former
University of Georgia professor suspected of killing his wife and two others was
discovered. There was still no sign of George Zinkhan, however. More than 200
officers were searching 200 acres. Zinkhan has been missing for nearly a week.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Andres Leighton -- Associated Press; Marchers in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, protest the government's plan to lay off 30,000 of its employees.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 105 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 3, 2009 Sunday
                                Bulldog Edition

Nation Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 788 words


PUERTO RICO

Workers Strike, March To Protest Layoff Plans

 Tens of thousands of workers shut down San Juan's financial district Friday as
they marched to protest the impending layoffs of 30,000 government employees.

Clutching banners and banging tambourines, the protesters criticized newly
elected Gov. Luis FortuÃ±o (R) over his plan that would affect about 14 percent
of the public workforce and save $2 billion a year.

FortuÃ±o presented this week a $7.7 billion budget that aims to cut a $3.2
billion deficit.

The work stoppage, organized by five of Puerto Rico's largest labor unions,
froze public transportation, interrupted classes and shuttered dozens of
offices.

-- Associated Press

IMMIGRATION

Swine Flu May Have Hurt Rallies' Turnout

Immigrants and their families gathered at rallies across the country Friday to
push for changes to U.S. immigration policy, but as a swine flu outbreak
continued to spread, attendance at some events was smaller than organizers had
hoped.

Organizers had hoped crowds would equal or exceed those of last year, down from
the 2006 turnout, when a stringent immigration bill poised to pass in Congress
drew massive protests.

A new immigration bill before Congress provides a path to citizenship for the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States. Thousands
were expected in support of the measure at events in Houston, Los Angeles,
Chicago, New York and other cities -- mostly in the late afternoon, when workers
finished their shifts. But early reports suggested turnout would be far lower
than in previous years.

-- Associated Press

FOREST SERVICE

Caves Being Closed as Bat Deaths Are Probed

The U.S. Forest Service is preparing to close thousands of caves and former
mines in national forests in 33 states for up to a year in an effort to control
a fungus that has already killed an estimated 500,000 bats.

Forest Service biologist Becky Ewing said an emergency order was issued last
week for caves in 20 states from Minnesota to Maine. A second order covering the
Forest Service's 13-state Southern Region should be issued later this month.

The orders follow a March request by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for
people to voluntarily stay out of caves in 17 states.

Bats have been dying at alarming rates from what scientists call "white-nose
syndrome," so-named because it appears as a white powder on the face and wings
of hibernating bats. The problem was first spotted in New York and within two
years has spread to caves in West Virginia and Virginia.

Researchers think the fungus is spread from bat to bat, but they have not ruled
out a human connection, said Dennis Krusac, a biologist with the Southern
Region.

-- Associated Press

Airman Charged in Miscarriage: An Air Force court-martial began Monday in Alaska
for an airman facing charges that he laced his wife's food with ulcer medication
to force her to miscarry. Airman 1st Class Scott Boie of Milton, Wis., is
charged with assault and causing the death of the unborn child. Boie's attorneys
say his wife's history of smoking and troubled pregnancies may have caused the
miscarriage last year.

U.S. Official Expects N. Korean Nuclear Test: A senior Obama administration
official said Friday that he expects that North Korea will test a nuclear weapon
before it is forced back to international disarmament negotiations. "It's very
clear that the North Koreans want to pick a fight. They want to kill the
six-party talks," said Gary Samore, President Obama's policy coordinator for
weapons of mass destruction. North Korea vowed to quit six-nation nuclear
negotiations and restart its atomic program after the U.N. Security Council's
criticism of North Korea's launch of a long-range missile on April 5. North
Korea also kicked all international monitors out of its nuclear facilities.

Former Tex. Sheriff Aided Drug Trafficking: A former south Texas sheriff pleaded
guilty Friday to a drug trafficking charge for sharing information with a
Mexican drug ring. Reymundo Guerra entered the plea to conspiring to distribute
narcotics while he was Starr County sheriff. Guerra could face a sentence of 10
years to life in prison. Federal prosecutors said Guerra helped the Mexican Gulf
Cartel to operate in his county and endangered fellow law enforcement agents by
sharing names of confidential informants.

Police Find Ga. Professor's Jeep: Authorities on Friday swarmed a heavily wooded
area in north Georgia, where a wrecked Jeep belonging to a former University of
Georgia professor suspected of killing his wife and two others was discovered.
There was still no sign of George Zinkhan, however. More than 200 officers were
searching 200 acres. Zinkhan has been missing for nearly a week.

-- From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Andres Leighton -- Associated Press; Marchers in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, protest the government's plan to lay off 30,000 of its employees.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved
