
                               1 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 28, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Basic Rights of Immigrant Workers

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 192 words


The Dec. 6 news story "INS Raids Follow Union Organizing" failed to accurately
outline remedies available to undocumented workers who are victims of violations
of the National Labor Relations Act, thus leaving a misleading impression that
employers can, with impunity, use the immigration laws as a weapon to thwart
union organizing drives.

Workers in such situations have significant remedies. The Supreme Court, in the
1984 Sure-Tan decision, made clear that the workers' original illegal entry into
the country does not preclude remedial action. The circuit courts of appeals
have interpreted this decision to permit the National Labor Relations Board
(NLRB) to order an employer to reinstate a discharged worker conditioned on the
worker's ability, within a reasonable period of time, to satisfy the immigration
laws' work eligibility requirements. Moreover, some jurisdictions permit the
award of back pay, in addition to reinstatement, to undocumented workers
discharged in violation of their rights under the NLRA.

RANDEL K. JOHNSON

Vice President

Labor and Employee Benefits

U.S. Chamber of Commerce

Washington




LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               2 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 20, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Labor's New View

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 604 words


THE AMERICAN labor movement, which 15 years ago helped draft laws to punish
employers who hire illegal immigrants, this week reached out to immigrant
workers, proposing amnesty for those illegally in the country and an end to most
employer sanctions.

On one level this new attitude is simply a response to reality. The immigration
reforms of 1986, which extended amnesty to roughly 3 million illegal residents
and tried to cut off the supply of jobs for illegal immigrants by making
employers responsible for hiring legal workers, have failed to stem the tide.
Millions of illegal workers are here and are filling a need in the booming labor
market. In some cases those workers are being deliberately exploited by
employers who wave the threat of deportation to discourage complaints about
wages or working conditions--and to hamper union organizing, even among legal
immigrants.

Labor leaders described the new policy as a return to the movement's roots as an
organization built by immigrants and their children. It's also a clear look
toward the unions' own future interests. In a strong economy, it's hard to argue
as labor sometimes has in the past that immigrants are taking jobs away from
U.S. workers. To the contrary, John Wilhelm, president of the Hotel Employees
and Restaurant Employees Union, notes that as unions have become more active in
organizing in recent years, they have encountered immigrant workers in every
sort of workplace and every location. "We need to be on their side," he said.

While calling for a broad amnesty that could eventually cover as many as 6
million people, including current illegal workers and their family members,
labor leaders proposed acting immediately on behalf of some groups with a strong
claim for consideration. They include Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Hondurans and
Haitians who fled their countries in the late 1980s and early 1990s and have
been denied refugee status, 350,000 long-term residents the unions say were
improperly denied legal status in the last amnesty program and 10,000 Liberians
who fled that country's civil war. That is a reasonable place to start.

A full or partial amnesty would acknowledge that these workers have become
essential in important industries and that there is no national appetite for a
wholesale effort to find and deport them. But any amnesty needs to be coupled
with a clear and enforceable plan for combating future illegal immigration. It
also must be fair to the legal applicants who have waited in line and played by
the rules.

The unions want to impose criminal penalties on employers who recruit
undocumented workers abroad and those who deliberately take advantage of
workers' illegal status to operate substandard workplaces. And for good reason:
Many who flout immigration law also break other laws, including those governing
safety and minimum wage. A concerted effort to go after those employers could be
more effective in the long run than the current broad-based sanctions, which
have been gutted by weak enforcement and the wide availability of fraudulent
documents.

Another key element of a reformed policy should be a heightened effort to
identify and pursue those who arrive on legitimate visas but then stay on after
the visas have expired. These overstayers are almost as numerous as those who
slip illegally across the border.

The economy's sustained growth has created an opportunity for a fresh look at
immigration policy. The goal should be a workable system that takes into account
the reality of the marketplace--and that will make sense even when times are not
quite so good.



LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                               3 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 14, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

132 Chinese Found Hidden Aboard Ship In Georgia Port

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Aug. 13





U.S. agents using welding torches and crowbars discovered 132 Chinese illegal
immigrants in a secret compartment in the hold of a ship docked in Savannah,
Ga., immigration officials said today.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman Sue Brown said the
migrants were found by agents acting on a tip that Prince Nicholas, a ship
registered in Cyprus, was smuggling illegal immigrants.

Agents boarded the ship nine miles from Savannah on Wednesday but found no sign
of the migrants, Brown said. She said the agents returned a second time and
still found no one.

But when the ship docked at Savannah on Thursday, INS agents armed with welding
torches and crowbars were waiting. They found the Chinese in a secret
compartment of the hold that had been covered with a sheet of steel and a door
that had been welded in place.

All of the migrants were from China, all were male, and 51 claimed to be
juveniles, Brown said.

Georgia's booming economy and low unemployment rates have led to a shortage of
workers in many sectors of the economy, including agriculture. Brown said it was
possible the Chinese had been promised jobs as migrant laborers.

Today, the migrants were transported to Atlanta, where Brown said they would be
interviewed by agents who detained the ship's 28 crew members, who are from the
Philippines, China and Lithuania.

Brown said Savannah is not known as a frequent landing site for illegal
immigrants from China. According to authorities, smugglers charged the refugees
as much as $ 50,000 to make the journey.

Brown said the ship left China weeks ago and docked in Sweden, Finland and
Denmark before coming to Savannah.

She said the Chinese, many of whom were between 18 and 25, were in good
condition, despite having only a faucet from which to get drinking water and a
hole in the floor that served as a toilet.

The inside of the hold was fitted with a honeycomb of wooden berths stacked like
crates that served as beds.


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               4 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 24, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

INS Chief: An Overhaul Is Needed

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 442 words



A Senate proposal to abolish the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
replace it with a new, reorganized Justice Department agency got a cautiously
positive reception yesterday from the head of the INS.

Doris Meissner told the Senate Judiciary immigration subcommittee that she
agrees her agency needs an overhaul, even though she disagrees with some details
of the proposal. She said the INS structure that blends keeping illegal aliens
out and processing legal immigrants is "a strained structure designed for a
different era."

"I am committed to change," she said.

The panel's chairman, Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), is sponsoring a bill that
would replace the INS with an Immigration Affairs Agency that would have two
bureaus -- one to enforce immigration laws and patrol the borders and another to
handle the cases of legal immigrants.

The proposed agency's leader and the heads of both bureaus would be appointed by
the president and approved by the Senate.

Abraham said his proposal is meant to solve long-standing problems with the INS.
The agency's unwieldy management structure has contributed to lengthy backlogs
in processing immigration visa and citizenship requests, as well as overcrowded
detention centers and other lapses as it tries to block illegal immigration.

"We cannot expect the INS to be the good service provider by day and the tough
cop by night," Abraham said.

He cited the case of suspected serial killer Angel Maturino Resendiz, who was
apprehended at the border and released to Mexico even after police alerted the
INS this summer that he was a murder suspect. Resendiz surrendered in July.

Abraham and other backers of the bill said reorganizing the INS alone would not
solve the problems if the new agency lacks good management.

"None of us believes that reorganization is a panacea," said Sen. Jon Kyl
(R-Ariz.).

Abraham's proposal has bipartisan support -- a co-sponsor is Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.) -- and backing from groups representing INS agents,
immigration lawyers and legal immigrants.

Several of the groups that back the Senate measure are critical of a House
proposal, sponsored by Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), that would split the INS into
two separate bureaus within the Justice Department. That separation "would make
it virtually impossible to articulate or implement a coherent, unified
immigration policy," said Warren Leiden of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

Backers of the House bill said they were encouraged the Senate is tackling the
issue, noting that both measures have a long way to go before they can come to a
final vote.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               5 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 17, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Demonstration Presses for Immigration Rule Change; 5,000 Urge Congress To Grant
New Amnesty

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C05

LENGTH: 536 words



More than 5,000 protesters from across the country, including illegal immigrants
from four continents, marched through Washington yesterday and staged a noisy
demonstration in Lafayette Square urging Congress to grant a new amnesty for all
illegal immigrant workers.

They arrived by van, bus and train from New York, North Carolina, Florida,
Michigan, Texas and California, some leaving days earlier for the journey. The
vast majority were immigrants from Latin America, but there also were
contingents from Liberia, Sierra Leone and elsewhere.

"These people are here, they're working, they're paying their taxes," said
Fakhral Alam, general secretary of the Bangladesh Society of New York, who said
there are about 100,000 illegal immigrants from his homeland in the United
States. "It's time for another amnesty. These people aren't going back anyway.
They're staying."

It has been 13 years since Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Control
Act, which granted amnesty to nearly 3 million illegal immigrants in the United
States. Now, according to government estimates, there are more than 5 million
illegal immigrants living in the United States, with an additional
quarter-million arriving every year.

Their circumstances are particularly dire, advocates said yesterday, because
illegal immigrants today have little hope of legalizing their status. In the
past, they could win permission to stay by paying a fine and finding a relative
or an employer to sponsor a visa. But strict laws passed in 1996 eliminated
those provisions and bar those who have been in the country illegally for more
than a year from becoming permanent residents unless they leave for 10 years.

"It was one of the hardest punches the community has endured," said Saul
Solorzano, director of the District-based Central American Resource Center.

A 21-year-old farm worker from Florida who was waving an inflated green space
creature labeled "Mexican alien" during the march said he has been in the United
States seven years. His parents and five brothers are permanent residents, he
said, but he and his sister are not.

"It was easier before to get permission to stay, but now it's almost
impossible," he said. "That's why we need an amnesty."

Hundreds of participants in the rally were members of various labor unions.
Though organized labor once viewed illegal immigrants as a threat to the job
security and wages of their members, support is building within the labor
movement for a new amnesty because of the shifting demographics of the nation's
low-wage work force.

"We're behind it one hundred percent," said Edison Severino, 29, a Dominican
construction worker and one of about 1,200 members of the Laborers'
International Union from New York at the rally. "These workers don't have any
place else to turn.

"I know how it feels because I was once illegal," he said. "You can't travel to
see your relatives. It's hard to get a job. When I got one, they squeezed
everything out of me and paid me peanuts in return."

Demonstrators march along Columbia Road NW en route from Meridian Hill Park to
Lafayette Square. The protest of U.S. immigration rules drew thousands from
across the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               6 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 29, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Illegal Help From the Law?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A30; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 259 words


The Oct. 7 Metro article "For Illegals, Help From the Law" described efforts by
Fairfax County police to help illegal aliens. The day before the article
appeared, the Supreme Court refused to review a decision by the Court of Appeals
for the 10th Circuit holding that state and local enforcement officials are free
to arrest illegal aliens to the extent permitted by state law. In its decision,
the federal appellate court ruled that federal law and congressional policy
encourage cooperation between the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
local police. The court also noted that 1996 immigration reform legislation
encourages local police to participate in enforcing the nation's immigration
laws.

By contrast, The Post's article discussed Fairfax County police officers who are
working without authorization and who have taken no steps to notify the INS.
This nonfeasance apparently is sanctioned by their supervisor. The article also
quoted Dennis Merrill, an official with the Virginia Department of Labor and
Industry, as stating, "We don't get into immigration issues."

To the extent that police officers are aware of the illegal status of aliens and
fail to take action to notify federal officials, they are condoning violation of
our nation's immigration laws. Perhaps Congress needs to amend the immigration
laws to empower the Department of Justice to prosecute state and law enforcement
officials who are aware of violations of immigration laws and fail to take
appropriate action.

ROBERT BARTON

Bethesda




LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                               7 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 4, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Algerian Arrested Dec. 24 Probed for Bomb Plot Links

David A. Vise; Lorraine Adams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 566 words


Federal agents are investigating whether there is a link between an Algerian man
charged with immigration violations yesterday and a bomb plot apparently foiled
last month in Washington state by the FBI and immigration officials, U.S.
officials said last night.

Abdel Hakim Tizegha, who was arrested on Dec. 24 and charged in federal court in
Seattle yesterday, traveled between Washington state and Canada last month. He
entered the United States from Canada, according to the FBI, by sneaking through
the woods and crossing the border on foot around Nov. 30.

It is not clear what role, if any, Tizegha had in a plot to carry out terrorist
attacks related to millennial celebrations in the United States. While he knew
others who allegedly were part of a terrorist scheme that revolved around an
organization known as the Armed Islamic Group, his relationship to that group
and to any plot has not been determined, officials said.

In mid-December, another Algerian, Ahmed Ressam, was arrested with a car full of
powerful explosives and timing devices while traveling from Canada into
Washington state. Last week, Abdel Ghani, an Algerian with links to the
terrorist group, was arrested in Brooklyn. Ghani had traveled to Seattle to meet
Ressam, but never made contact after Ressam was arrested and their plans to
carry out a bombing were stymied, according to U.S. officials.

Officials know that Tizegha was a friend of Ghani and had contact with Ressam.
Detaining him on immigration charges will enable U.S. officials to question
Tizegha further about the alleged plots.

The court filing yesterday said Tizegha unsuccessfully attempted to flee when he
was arrested on Christmas Eve in Seattle. At the time, he already was facing
deportation charges for earlier immigration violations. In 1993, the complaint
alleged, Tizegha entered the United States illegally as a stowaway on a ship and
then applied for political asylum in Boston. His request was reviewed and denied
and ultimately, he was ordered to leave the U.S. last summer, which he did.

Since his Dec. 24 arrest, Tizegha called his roommate from the INS detention
facility and asked him to destroy a bus ticket showing he had gone from
Bellingham, Wash., to Seattle. The roommate told the FBI that he complied with
the request to destroy the ticket.

Last week, U.S. law enforcement officials arrested people in New York and Boston
and questioned dozens of others nationwide in an effort to disrupt a possible
network of Algerians suspected of planning terrorist attacks. In addition,
officials disclosed that a Canadian woman arrested last month trying to cross
the border into Vermont, Ressam and the Algerian arrested last week in Brooklyn
were all linked to the same terrorist organization.

The group had false passports, aliases and a plan to leave a rented car filled
with explosives at a drop-off point in Seattle, where another member of the
network would take charge of the vehicle, officials allege. FBI officials said
they had not identified any specific U.S. city or site that was to have been the
focus of the attack.

Also yesterday, another suspect was arrested in New York, according to a U.S.
official. The man was linked to the bomb smuggling scheme and appeared in
Manhattan federal court during a secret proceeding in which papers were filed
under seal, the Associated Press reported.


LOAD-DATE: January 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                               8 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 11, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Man Found Guilty in Slave Case; Md. Couple Brought Woman From Brazil

Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 738 words



A Gaithersburg man charged with keeping a Brazilian woman as a "live-in slave"
for nearly 20 years was convicted in U.S. District Court in Greenbelt yesterday
of violating immigration laws in connection with his treatment of the woman.

The jury deliberated about seven hours over two days before finding Rene R.
Bonetti guilty of all three immigration law felonies with which he was charged:
conspiring to harbor an undocumented alien, harboring an undocumented alien for
financial gain and endangering the life of an undocumented alien he harbored.

Bonetti did not react outwardly as the verdict was read. At the request of
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven M. Dettelbach, who argued that Bonetti was a risk
to flee the country, U.S. District Judge Deborah K. Chasanow ordered him taken
into custody immediately.

Bonetti, 51, who faces a maximum prison sentence of 35 years, had been free on $
50,000 bond since he was indicted by a federal grand jury last September.
Chasanow scheduled sentencing for May 15.

Bonetti was convicted of harboring and abusing Hilda Rosa Dos Santos, who came
to the United States in 1979 to work for Bonetti and his wife, Margarida.

Federal officials say that thousands of foreign domestic workers like Dos Santos
are brought into the United States by their employers and abused.

Maryland U.S. Attorney Lynne A. Battaglia said she hopes the conviction of
Bonetti will make people think twice about abusing people like Dos Santos.

"People sometimes forget that there are dire consequences to basically holding
people in slavery in this country," Battaglia said in an interview.

"We see this woman as representing the most vulnerable segment of our
population. This is one of those cases which called out for federal
involvement," Battaglia said.

Margarida Bonetti, 46, who was indicted on charges of abusing Dos Santos, fled
the United States and is now in her native Brazil, according to testimony during
the trial. Dos Santos had worked for Margarida Bonetti's family in Brazil since
1961, according to court testimony.

Dos Santos, 65, illiterate in her native Portuguese and unable to speak English,
testified through interpreters that Margarida Bonetti assaulted her repeatedly
while Rene Bonetti did nothing to help Dos Santos, except to suggest that she
pray for his wife.

She also testified that she was never paid for the cleaning, cooking and
yardwork she did for the Bonettis and that her employers did not get her medical
treatment for a large stomach tumor and a gaping open wound in her leg that
became infected.

Dos Santos lived in a small, windowless basement, while the Bonettis, who
padlocked their refrigerator to keep Dos Santos out of it, lived in the large,
comfortable upstairs part of the house, according to court testimony.

Rene Bonetti, a native of Brazil, is now a U.S. citizen. John C. Maginnis, his
attorney, said his client was "completely at peace" with the verdict and
expressed concern for Dos Santos.

Bonetti testified that neither he nor his wife ever abused Dos Santos, whom he
characterized as a longtime family friend who was incompetent at housecleaning
tasks. He testified that he knew Dos Santos's temporary visa was expiring in the
early 1980s and urged her to take steps to become legalized and took her word
for it when she said she had.

In her closing argument, Assistant U.S. Attorney Mythili Raman described
Bonetti's defense as "an intricate web of lies." She pointed out that Bonetti
had admitted during cross-examination that he had lied to the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service and FBI Special Agent Don Niely, who helped
investigate the case.

"He confessed, ladies and gentlemen," Raman said.

Dos Santos finally left the Bonetti home in April 1998, when neighbors took her
to a hospital to have her tumor, which prosecutors described as the size of a
soccer ball, surgically removed. The tumor was benign.

It was then that social workers learned of Dos Santos's plight, and the FBI and
INS began to investigate while Montgomery Couty's Department of Adult Protective
Services stepped in to help the woman.

Dos Santos, who according to court testimony was given away by her birth mother
and has no family in Brazil, was granted temporary legal status to testify
against Bonetti. It could not be learned yesterday whether she plans to petition
the INS to stay in the United States.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                               9 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      April 7, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Canada Unveils Plan to Shut 'Back Door' to Criminal Immigrants

Steven Pearlstein , Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 6



Responding to criticism that Canada has become a haven for terrorists and
human-smuggling rings, the government proposed an overhaul of its immigration
laws today to make it harder for suspected criminals and illegal immigrants to
gain entry to the country.

"Closing the back door to those who would abuse the system will allow us to open
the front door even wider to genuine refugees and the immigrants Canada will
need to grow and prosper," said Citizenship and Immigration Minister Elinor
Caplan after introducing the legislation in the House of Commons.

Caplan acknowledged that her department has "not always been very good" at
balancing the country's desire to offer a haven for the persecuted and
downtrodden with the need to protect North America from illegal activity.

The move comes in the wake of revelations that a group of Algerians, living
illegally in Montreal, had planned to carry out a major terrorist attack in the
United States during millennial celebrations. The plot was foiled when U.S.
Customs agents stopped Ahmed Ressam as he tried to sneak into the United States
with a trunk full of explosives. Embarrassed Canadian officials later
acknowledged that Ressam and several alleged associates had lived for years in
Montreal--collecting welfare, engaging in petty crimes, starting
businesses--even though their petition for political refugee status had been
denied.

Of even greater concern to Canadians, however, have been the boat loads of
Chinese immigrants who periodically wash ashore with fraudulent identity papers
and stories of religious and political persecution back home.

Many such migrants quickly flee across the border to the United States, where
they are forced to work for years as indentured servants in brothels and
sweatshops to pay off the illegal smuggling rings that arranged for their
transport. Others remain in such cities as Vancouver and Toronto, living on
welfare and taking advantage of endless appeals that allow them to string out
the refugee determination process for six years or more.

Under the proposal unveiled today, Canada would conduct quick background checks
on all refugee claimants within three days and immediately detain or deport any
known terrorists or persons wanted for serious crimes.

The law would authorize the government to jail illegal immigrants who arrive as
part of a smuggling operation, pending expedited consideration of refugee
claims. And for the first time, refugee status would be automatically suspended
for immigrants who present false evidence in support of their claim or commit
crimes in Canada while awaiting a decision on their status.

Caplan also outlined a streamlined refugee review process that, at its longest,
would take two years, compared with the five years it now takes claimants who
pursue their cases through the federal courts.

Maximum criminal penalties for operating human-smuggling rings would be raised
to life in prison and a $ 1 million fine, although opposition party critics
noted that few ringleaders of such operations ever come to Canada.


LOAD-DATE: April 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              10 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 7, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Along the Arizona Border

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 518 words


The June 21 front-page story about the situation in Arizona said the illegal
entrants are only "looking for work and new lives," and brushed off the impact
of the 5 million to 6 million illegal aliens who live permanently in the United
States:

* Noncitizens--mostly illegal aliens serving time for drug convictions--are more
than a quarter of the federal prison population, more than 10 times the
percentage of illegal aliens in the U.S. population.

* Harvard economist George Borjas found that unskilled illegal aliens contribute
to depressed wages of thousands of dollars per year for the typical legal
immigrant.

* Two-thirds of the new mothers hospitalized in Los Angeles and Houston county
hospitals are illegal aliens. Harris County taxpayers paid $ 51 million in the
past year to treat illegal aliens, including these women. Los Angeles taxpayers
paid more.

LAMAR SMITH

U.S. Representative (R-Tex.)

Washington


The story about the situation along the border in Arizona may have left the
mistaken impression that the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)
condones citizens' taking the law into their own hands. On the contrary, INS is
doing everything it can to discourage such conduct. The job of enforcing our
nation's immigration laws is best left to members of the U.S. Border Patrol, who
are trained law enforcement personnel.

We understand that residents of southern Arizona are frustrated by the growing
volume of illegal immigration. By the end of this year, nearly 1,500 Border
Patrol agents will be permanently assigned to the Tucson sector, an increase of
more than 70 percent over the past three years.

We have established a toll-free number that southern Arizona residents can use
around the clock to contact the Border Patrol for assistance. Also, we are
deploying additional personnel, equipment and technology to the area.

Arizona is at the forefront of the administration's border enforcement effort.
We have made significant strides there but still have considerable work to do to
gain control in certain areas. We urge local residents to contact the Border
Patrol rather than risking their own safety.

DORIS MEISSNER

Commissioner

Immigration and Naturalization Service

Washington


A million Mexicans a year risk their lives to cross the border into this country
because of the actions of Congress and the White House, which have amnesties for
illegal aliens passed in 1997 and again in 1998 and possibly again this year.
These amnesties precipitate even more illegal immigration, as individuals are
encouraged in the belief that if they can just elude the U.S. Border Patrol and
stay underground for a few years, they eventually will get amnesty.

Arizona ranchers are being victimized for having to uphold the law. After all,
they are doing what the U.S. government is supposed to do. Our government bears
the responsibility for inviting foreign nationals to break our laws, risk their
lives and severely threaten the quality of life and the very lives of our own
American citizens.

JEFF LUKENS

Valrico, Fla.



LOAD-DATE: July 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              11 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  February 16, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Safeguards Proposed for Servants; Members of Congress Take Aim at Abuse of
Foreign Workers

William Branigin , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B04

LENGTH: 624 words


A bipartisan group of congressmen is pushing legislation to address what they
say is a growing problem in the Washington area: the exploitation of foreign
servants brought here by officials of international organizations such as the
World Bank, International Monetary Fund and Organization of American States.

At a news conference attended by women who described themselves as victims of
modern-day slavery in the homes of foreign officials, Rep. Sam Gejdenson
(D-Conn.) and Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-N.J.) outlined the legislation. Among
other provisions, the bill would give workers protection from deportation if
they pursue legal action against their employers.

Domestic workers who flee their employers usually lose legal immigration status,
because their visas tie them to the foreign officials they work for or expire
while they are working in the household.

Among those who would be helped by the bill's immigration provision is Dora
Mortey, 28, a former teacher from Ghana. She said at yesterday's news conference
that she was brought to the United States in May by a World Bank official,
Amarquaye Armar, to work in his Fairfax home and that she had been underpaid and
mistreated.

Mortey said she ran away from her boss at Reagan National Airport in September
when he was trying to send her back to Ghana while withholding most of her
salary. She said she was paid $ 400 for four months after working nearly 16
hours a day.

"I was constantly degraded and humiliated by this family," Mortey said. "I did
not leave behind a teaching job in Ghana to come to America to be treated like a
dog or a slave."

A World Bank spokesman said that officials are investigating the case, but that
they have not been able to interview Armar, who is on assignment in Africa.

Reached at home, Armar's wife, Adena Armar, denied the allegations, insisting
that Mortey had lied about her treatment. "She became a person who could not
tell the truth," Adena Armar said.

The exploitation of servants brought to this country from abroad was highlighted
by a recent federal court case in Maryland. Last week, Rene R. Bonetti, 51, of
Gaithersburg, who was accused of keeping a Brazilian woman as a "live-in slave"
for nearly 20 years, was convicted of breaking immigration laws. He faces a
maximum prison sentence of 35 years.

At yesterday's news conference, a Bolivian woman, Juana Condori, said she was
paid less than $ 1 an hour, forced to work at least 12 hours a day and denied
medical care while employed in the D.C. home of an official of the Organization
of American States.

Weeping, the 32-year-old woman said that she was raped by a friend of the family
but that her employer, whom she did not name, refused to take her to a doctor or
to provide any other help. "I suffered more abuse than I can explain," Condori
said.

Condori said she hoped her testimony would help "put an end to the abuse of
domestic workers."

Another former servant, Elizabeth Iguago, of Ecuador, said she was brought into
the United States to work for an employee of the IMF but was "traded" to an
American couple.

"It's clear there have been some horrendous abuses," Gejdenson said. He said
that although the World Bank and IMF have announced new rules aimed at ensuring
that their employees comply with U.S. labor laws, more needs to be done.

Smith faulted regulations that provide for only a random "paper" audit to ensure
that servants are properly paid and treated.

The Gejdenson-Smith bill was recently approved by the House International
Relations Committee and has been referred to the Judiciary Committee. Rep. Frank
R. Wolf (R-Va.) is one of its 15 co-sponsors. Similar legislation has been
introduced in the Senate.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              12 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      May 29, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

FAIR Fight

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A22; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 198 words



The May 17 editorial, "Democracy Distorted," said the Federation for American
Immigration Reform "is backing [Debbie] Stabenow" in her U.S. Senate race in
Michigan. Ms. Stabenow's campaign was probably as surprised as we were to hear
that, since she has criticized FAIR publicly.

The senate campaign in Michigan this year is purely coincidental with the fact
that the current occupant of that seat, Spencer Abraham, is sponsoring
legislation that would vastly increase the number of high-tech guest workers in
the United States. FAIR opposes foreign guest worker programs and has used paid
advertisements as a way of raising awareness of the legislation.

FAIR's legislative ad campaign opposing more guest workers is not encouraged or
endorsed by either political party. On the other hand, the ad campaign of
Americans for Job Security, attacking both FAIR and Ms. Stabenow, is paid for by
money extracted from high-tech companies by the GOP Senate leadership. This
fundamental difference should be kept in mind in all discussions of campaign
finance reform.

DAN STEIN

Executive Director

FAIR (Federation for American

Immigration Reform)

Washington



LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              13 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 22, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrant Workers Abused, EEOC Says; New Agency Suit Alleges Hispanics Were
Underpaid, Mistreated by Arizona Firm

Kirstin Downey Grimsley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 788 words


Continuing a crackdown on alleged abuses of immigrant workers, the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission filed a class-action lawsuit yesterday against
an Arizona art-reproduction firm, charging it mistreated its Mexican and
Guatemalan employees, many of whom were illegal aliens.

The agency charged that Hispanic workers at the company were paid less than
U.S.-born workers; didn't receive overtime compensation they earned; and were
insulted and harassed, including sexual advances made to the women by American
supervisors.

On one occasion, in an effort to find lost money, the Hispanic woman were
strip-searched at work, while men were simply asked to empty out their pockets,
according to the lawsuit and agency officials.

When some workers began to complain about the alleged mistreatment, the owners
of the company called the Immigration and Naturalization Service to have them
arrested and deported, according to the EEOC lawsuit.

"We need to make sure all employers understand that civil rights laws cover all
workers in the United States," EEOC Chairwoman Ida Castro said in an interview
yesterday. She said she is pursuing her agency's mandate to enforce the nation's
equal-employment opportunity laws, while it is the INS's job to enforce
immigration laws.

Castro said more and more immigrants--legal and illegal--are complaining about
mistreatment at the hands of employers. Allegations to her agency have
"exploded" in the past decade. In 1986, for example, the agency received 207
reports of harassment based on national origin. By 1999, the number had climbed
to 2,089--a tenfold increase.

"Some of these companies' workplace practices are so egregious that even the
most vulnerable workers, immigrants, are starting to arise and assert their
rights," Castro said. "And I think what we're seeing is only the tip of the
iceberg."

Quality Art, the company charged in yesterday's EEOC suit, is located in an
industrial area in Gilbert, a Phoenix suburb. It is owned by Palestra Capital
Partners Inc., a Chicago-based investment banking firm.

John S. Handler, one of the partners, referred calls to the company's attorney,
Larry Rosenfeld. Calls to Quality Art were also referred to Rosenfeld, who did
not return several telephone calls seeking comment.

A parallel private lawsuit was filed yesterday by Phoenix lawyer Stephen G.
Montoya on behalf of 27 former employees. It alleges the company engaged in a
"pattern and practice of discriminating against its Latino employees." It
alleged that one of the firm's managers touched the breasts and buttocks of
several of the women and "frequently leered" at their breasts.

On April 21, 1999, according to Montoya's suit, the Latino employees were
subjected to a strip search after an employee allegedly lost $ 1,000 won in an
office lottery. The manager separated the men and women and asked men to empty
their pockets. The American-born women were asked to open their purses and their
pockets. But the suit said the Hispanic women were taken to a restroom, where
they were required to remove their bras and expose their breasts. One woman's
genital area was examined, according to the filing.

The filing said Hispanic workers were called "stupid Mexicans" and "brainless
Mexicans" and were told they were not permitted to receive holiday or overtime
pay on Memorial Day because they are not U.S. citizens.

On August 6, 1999, some of the workers protested with placards outside the
establishment, the legal filing alleges, and the manager "confronted the
protesters and began yelling 'Immigration, Immigration' " at them. The filing
alleges that the manager subsequently called the INS and sought to have the
people he described as the "ringleaders" deported.

In an interview, Montoya said the company has subsequently moved some of its
operations to Nogales, Mexico, just across the Arizona border.

Earlier this month, the EEOC reached a $ 1 million settlement in a sexual
harassment case on behalf of 22 Hispanic women who worked at a food-processing
plant in Laurel.

In January, the agency announced it had reached a $ 72,000 settlement in a
lawsuit on behalf of nine Mexican workers against Holiday Inn Express Hotel and
Suites in Minneapolis alleging national-origination discrimination and
retaliation.

In March 1999, the EEOC announced a $ 2.1 million settlement in a class-action
discrimination lawsuit alleging a nursing home in Gladstone, Mo., had imported
nurses from the Philippines to care for patients, but paid them less and gave
them worse assignments and working conditions than U.S.-born employees. The EEOC
had alleged the Filipino nurses were paid $ 6 an hour less than their U.S.
counterparts.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              14 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     August 6, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

A Brave New World of Work

Craig D. Norris

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 883 words



As Silicon Valley pleads with Congress to expand the H-1B visa program governing
the immigration of highly skilled workers into the United States, technology and
the changing nature of work are opening up entirely new options that may make
this immigration debate all but obsolete in the years ahead.

In 1990, Congress passed legislation to help U.S. firms "import" information
technology and other employees with advanced education from other countries,
creating the H-1B visa category and authorizing the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) to issue 60,000 such temporary visas each year.
Over time the quota was raised to 115,000, but according to some estimates, last
year as many as 60 percent of all H-1B visa applications were denied because of
quota limits. This year, the demand in areas ranging from information technology
to biotechnology to academia pushed the INS to run through its H-1Bs by
mid-March, less than five months into the fiscal year. The result has been this
summer's legislation to raise the quota substantially--as high as 200,000 visas
a year--and the effort by some in Congress to remove caps on H-1Bs altogether.

But as Congress grapples with raising this immigration limit, the long-term
issue is far larger than H-1B. For the first time ever, we're witnessing the
emergence of a truly global employment market. It used to be necessary to bring
workers to where work was, but in our wired world, it is now possible to send
work to workers, wherever they are.

A new style of project-based employment is rising in response to the information
industry's chronically desperate labor needs. The industry's answer is to use
the World Wide Web to assemble multinational project teams. For example, one
Silicon Valley executive recruited via the Web a group of PhDs in discrete
mathematics and graph theory from Minsk, Belarus, for a semiconductor design
project. This made-to-order task group passed their work from time zone to time
zone around the clock, beating their deadline. Team members never left their
home countries, in part because they could not get H-1B visas, and the team
leader never left his home office. Around Silicon Valley and in other regions,
companies have built similar task-specific teams using talent from India, Israel
and Ireland, as well as New Hampshire, New Jersey and Texas.

The appetite for these kinds of transnational, project-restricted work groups is
growing so quickly that dozens of online job sites have sprung up to accommodate
it. It began with Internet-based job boards and relatively simple Web sites that
provided employers with resume banks of thousands of prospective employees. Now
those sites are being networked globally and becoming easier to use for both
employers and prospective workers.

Less and less often do team assemblers start their searches by placing want ads
in the local paper. Instead they post notices on Internet portals ranging from
Lycos to iWon or at work-specific addresses like NationJobs, WetFeet or
Net-Temps. Talented people with the requisite skills are notified of a project
that fits their background, and they can respond based on their availability and
interest. Soon interviews are taking place, and compensation and deliverables
are negotiated over the Web. In many cases team leaders can consult online
ratings of the past work of prospective members, not unlike Amazon's customer
ratings of books.

It isn't just the Internet that is driving this transformation. In the
information technology industry in particular but increasingly across all
industry, product life cycles are shrinking as customers adopt a made-to-order
mentality that makes flexible manufacturing and customized services a must. In
response, many employers are being driven to apply a "Hollywood model" to their
tasks. They assemble the best talent available at the moment. When the project
is complete, the team breaks up and moves on.

With much of the top talent in information technology and other industries not
looking for 401(k)s and great dental plans as much as for work with meaning and
new challenges to conquer (witness the phenomenon of open-source software and
the Linux revolution), a high-powered labor force has developed that prefers
working this way. These people do not consider the traditional model of
long-term employment for them. Now with the Web, the market for their services
is international, making this kind of lifestyle all the more appealing. But the
Internet is merely facilitating these changes in both employment and the
preferences of the work force. It didn't create them.

With 268,000 jobs in the information technology sector alone currently unfilled
and 1.6 million of those new positions likely to be created in the United States
this year, Congress has no choice but to raise the H-1B quota--unless it wants
to kneecap productivity in sectors that are powering our economy's growth. But
while we're waiting for Congress to act, the marketplace is creating new
opportunities for both employers and workers--a new and highly efficient global
marketplace unlike any we have seen before.

Welcome to the brave new world of work.


The writer is chairman and chief executive officer of WorkExchange Inc., based
in Santa Clara, Calif.


LOAD-DATE: August 06, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              15 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     August 7, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

A Brave New World of Work

Craig D. Norris

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 868 words



As Silicon Valley pleads with Congress to expand the H-1B visa program governing
the immigration of highly skilled workers into the United States, technology and
the changing nature of work are opening up new options that may make this
immigration debate all but obsolete in the years ahead.

In 1990 Congress passed legislation to help U.S. firms "import" information
technology and other employees with advanced education from other countries,
creating the H-1B visa category and authorizing the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) to issue 60,000 such temporary visas each year.
Over time the quota was raised to 115,000, but according to some estimates, last
year as many as 60 percent of all H-1B visa applications were denied because of
quota limits. This year, the demand in areas ranging from information technology
to academia pushed the INS to run through its H-1Bs by mid-March. The result has
been this summer's legislation to raise the quota substantially--as high as
200,000 visas a year--and the effort by some in Congress to remove caps on H-1Bs
altogether.

But as Congress grapples with raising this immigration limit, the long-term
issue is far larger than H-1B. For the first time, we're witnessing the
emergence of a truly global employment market. It used to be necessary to bring
workers to where work was, but in our wired world, it is now possible to send
work to workers, wherever they are.

A new style of project-based employment is rising in response to the information
industry's chronically desperate labor needs. The industry's answer is to use
the World Wide Web to assemble multinational project teams. For example, one
Silicon Valley executive recruited via the Web a group of doctorates in discrete
mathematics and graph theory from Minsk, Belarus, for a semiconductor design
project. This made-to-order task group passed its work from time zone to time
zone around the clock, beating its deadline. Team members never left their home
countries, in part because they could not get H-1B visas, and the team leader
never left his home office. Around Silicon Valley and in other regions,
companies have built similar task-specific teams using talent from India, Israel
and Ireland, as well as New Hampshire, New Jersey and Texas.

The appetite for these kinds of transnational, project-restricted work groups is
growing so quickly that dozens of online job sites have sprung up to accommodate
it. It began with Internet-based job boards and relatively simple Web sites that
provided employers with resume banks of thousands of prospective employees. Now
those sites are being networked globally and becoming easier to use for both
employers and prospective workers.

Less and less often do team assemblers start their searches by placing want ads
in the local paper. Instead they post notices on Internet portals ranging from
Lycos to iWon or at work-specific addresses like NationJobs, WetFeet or
Net-Temps. Talented people with the requisite skills are notified of a project
that fits their background, and they can respond based on their availability and
interest. Soon interviews are taking place, and compensation and deliverables
are negotiated over the Web. In many cases team leaders can consult online
ratings of the past work of prospective members, not unlike Amazon's customer
ratings of books.

It isn't just the Internet that is driving this transformation. In the
information technology industry in particular but increasingly across all
industry, product life cycles are shrinking as customers adopt a made-to-order
mentality that makes flexible manufacturing and customized services a must. In
response, many employers are being driven to apply a "Hollywood model" to their
tasks. They assemble the best talent available at the moment. When the project
is complete, the team breaks up and moves on.

With much of the top talent in information technology and other industries not
looking for 401(k)s and great dental plans as much as for work with meaning and
new challenges to conquer (witness the phenomenon of open-source software and
the Linux revolution), a high-powered labor force has developed that prefers
working this way. These people do not consider the traditional model of
long-term employment for them. Now with the Web, the market for their services
is international, making this kind of lifestyle all the more appealing. But the
Internet is merely facilitating these changes in both employment and the
preferences of the work force. It didn't create them.

With 268,000 jobs in the information technology sector unfilled and 1.6 million
of those new positions likely to be created in the United States this year,
Congress has no choice but to raise the H-1B quota--unless it wants to kneecap
productivity in sectors that are powering our economy's growth. But while we're
waiting for Congress to act, the marketplace is creating opportunities for both
employers and workers--a new and highly efficient global marketplace unlike any
we have seen before.

Welcome to the brave new world of work.



The writer is chairman and chief executive officer of WorkExchange Inc., based
in Santa Clara, Calif.


LOAD-DATE: August 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              16 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 6, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

A Blow for Secret Evidence

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 445 words


IT'S HARD to imagine a better example of the dangers of secret evidence than the
case of Nasser Ahmed. Mr. Ahmed, an Egyptian who worked as a translator for
Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman during his trial, has been held for more than three
years, mostly in solitary confinement, as the government has sought to deport
him. At first the INS would give him no information about why he was regarded as
a security risk. An immigration judge ruled in 1997 that if he were returned to
Egypt, he would likely be tortured because of his political associations and
that he was, on the basis of the public record, eligible for asylum here. But
the judge denied his asylum request on the strength of the government's secret
evidence.

Turned out, however, that the national security interest in keeping this
material under wraps was not all that compelling after all. The INS, in response
to a subsequent lawsuit, released summaries of the material and declassified
some of the material itself, and Mr. Ahmed, at long last, had a chance to attack
it. The allegations included involvement in the sheik's terrorist group and
carrying a letter from the imprisoned cleric to the press that was somehow
linked to a subsequent terrorist attack.

Yet once the proceeding became more genuinely adversarial, Mr. Ahmed's case
began to look rather different. And last week, the same immigration judge who
had once declined to stop his deportation reversed himself, granted asylum and
ordered Mr. Ahmed released. "Armed with a better understanding of the
government's case, [Mr. Ahmed] was successful in rebutting most of the factual
allegations underlying the charge that he is a danger to the security of the
United States," the judge wrote. Even the still-secret evidence "can no longer
be viewed as sufficiently reliable to support a finding that [Mr. Ahmed] is a
danger." The government is appealing, and Mr. Ahmed remains in detention while
the appeal is pending. (He has also, in a separate matter, been convicted of
making false statements on an immigration form.)

The use of secret evidence is antithetical to the premises of our judicial
system. While it is possible to imagine immigration cases in which secrecy might
be necessary, the government has undermined confidence that it is making
responsible judgments about such occasions. In this case, it released
information that it had argued could not safely be released; when that
information was subjected to scrutiny, the government's case melted away. It
will be difficult to trust the next claim that a given person is so dangerous
that he must be deported -- and the reasons so secret they cannot be disclosed.

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              17 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 9, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

INS Shifts Policy on Criminal Detainees; Agency Releasing Some Immigrants

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1214 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has launched a review of the
thousands of cases of immigrants with criminal histories who have been jailed
pending deportation, and begun releasing some of those whom officials decide are
neither dangerous nor likely to flee future court hearings.

The systematic review follows a series of at least 12 federal court rulings
across the country against the previous INS policy of detaining all people
eligible for deportation for their crimes, regardless of whether they had
completed their original sentences long ago, received suspended sentences or
never received any jail sentence.

Officials said that only a small fraction of the estimated 15,000 immigrants
with criminal records in INS custody at any time may qualify for release under
the new policy, and that the INS will continue with deportation proceedings
against them after they are released.

But immigrant rights advocates hailed the decision to scrap the mandatory
detention rule as a victory in their campaign against the 1996 laws expanding
the categories of crimes for which immigrants can be deported. The laws also
have been under attack because they stripped judges of the power to grant
exceptions and were applied retroactively.

The new INS review consists of two parts. One, which began last month, covers
immigrants who completed their original sentences before the 1996 laws took
effect. The other covers immigrants who have been jailed indefinitely because
their countries of origin refuse to take them back. The INS began that portion
of the review on an informal basis in April, but issued uniform, national rules
for it on Friday.

Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee, has not objected to the review. But he has urged the INS to
exercise extreme caution and threatened to hold the agency accountable "any time
one of these individuals commits a subsequent crime."

Among those who have benefited from the review is Assegedech Biya, a 36-year-old
Ethiopian who lives in Alexandria. She had been in the Rappahannock Regional
Jail in Fredericksburg for more than six months, ever since INS agents showed up
at the McLean hotel where she worked and said they were going to deport her for
a shoplifting conviction.

She tried to steal clothes for her children five years ago, was caught,
convicted of felony larceny and placed on probation. The theft, Biya said, was a
desperate reaction to an abusive husband who had been withholding money from her
and who later pleaded guilty to domestic assault and battery.

Now, he has the children. And until Friday, when the INS released her after
inquiries about her case from The Washington Post, she had been stuck in jail.

"I came here to save my life," said Biya, who fled torture and imprisonment in
her homeland and sought asylum in the United States in 1992. "Now I know there
are no human rights here. How can you separate a mother and her children like
this?"

Stories of individual hardship such as Biya's have been surfacing ever since
Congress passed the 1996 laws. Now, immigrant rights advocates say, momentum
appears to be building for Congress to do something about them.

"We've never had such a good opportunity to get some of these laws overturned,"
said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association. "There are thousands of stories like [Biya's], and it's building to
a critical mass. . . . Most members didn't understand what they had wrought, and
now they're beginning to realize that maybe they went too far."

Any effort to change the 1996 laws must clear an obvious hurdle: There's not
much of a constituency for helping criminals, much less immigrants who are
criminals. In addition, because people can be deported for crimes ranging from
murder to drunken driving, it's unclear how many of them are people like Biya
and how many are more serious felons.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said nearly half of the 55,869 criminal immigrants
deported last year were convicted of drug offenses, and about 5,500 of the
deportees were legal residents.

Still, some supporters of the 1996 laws are having second thoughts.

For example, Rep. Bill McCollum (R-Fla.), a conservative Judiciary Committee
member considered tough on immigrant crime, has filed a bill to stop the
deportation of a convicted Canadian thief who is the son of a local GOP official
in his district. He is considering additional legislation.

In addition, the INS itself has called on Congress to restore some of the power
of judges to review these deportation cases. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.)
is pushing a bipartisan bill with more than 60 co-sponsors to do that. "This is
gathering steam because more and more cases are coming to people's attention,"
he said.

One of those involves Rick Siridavong, 23, a Springfield resident whose family
fled to the United States from Laos when he was 5. Siridavong applied for
citizenship last year -- "to show my appreciation for this country" -- and ended
up in jail.

Five years ago, Siridavong had been sentenced to probation and community service
for stealing a car radio. He didn't realize the act made him deportable, and he
openly admitted the conviction on his citizenship application. INS agents
responded in February by going to his home and handcuffing him in front of his
mother.

There was another wrinkle in Siridavong's case: A handful of countries don't
accept criminal deportees, including Cuba, Vietnam, Cambodia -- and Laos. As a
result, he faced the prospect of being detained indefinitely, like an estimated
3,500 other "lifers" in INS custody.

He was placed in a room at the Virginia Beach jail with about 30 other criminal
deportees. About half of them were serious criminals, he said. But he said the
rest were people like himself: a man who once stole a carton of cigarettes,
another who removed a "parking boot" from his car, someone who bounced several
checks.

"I was pretty depressed, and I was angry that the government could do this," he
said. "We tried to get Canada or Australia to accept me. I mean, I'd rather go
someplace I knew nothing about than stay locked up in there. It was terrible."

After nearly five months' incarceration, a judge ordered Siridavong released on
$ 1,500 bond in July. While Siridavong sat in jail, lawyers across the country
continued to challenge the 1996 laws. Cuban deportees being held indefinitely by
the INS in the Miami area staged a hunger strike.

As for Biya, INS spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs said it was only a coincidence that
she was released a day after The Post asked about her case. But Biya's
immigration advocate, Chris Einolf, said he tried to get her released weeks ago
and believes The Post's interest expedited the process.

Biya said she will stay at a women's shelter until she finds a new home and job,
adding that she will try to regain custody of her children. But she is worried
because she still could be forced to return to Ethiopia, where she said she
spent two months in prison and was beaten and tortured with electric shocks for
her political activities.

"It doesn't make any sense," she said. "This isn't the American dream. This
isn't my dream."



LOAD-DATE: August 09, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              18 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 12, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Legal Immigration at 10-Year Low; Congressional Action Blamed

Michelle Mittelstadt, Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 444 words



The United States granted permanent residence to 660,477 foreigners last year,
marking the lowest level of legal immigration in a decade as the federal
immigration service struggled to deal with a growing backlog of green card
applications.

The figures for fiscal 1998, announced yesterday by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, reflected a 17 percent drop from 1997 and a 28 percent
drop from the year before that.

INS estimated it would have granted legal permanent residence to as many as
140,000 additional people last year had it been able to keep pace with its
caseload. The backlog stands at 890,000--a sharp increase from its backlog of
121,000 applications in fiscal 1994.

The 1998 figure "doesn't reflect a drop in demand. It's actually a reflection of
the growth in the adjustment-of-status backlog," said INS spokeswoman Eyleen
Schmidt.


With the rising backlog, processing times have soared from an average of four
months in 1994 to as much as three years now.

"The 'S' in INS does stand for service. They may want to remember that
occasionally," said Matt Tallmer, spokesman for the American Immigration Lawyers
Association. "Their backlog is just atrocious."

The legal immigration figure is only a partial snapshot of overall immigration
rates. Last year, 637,000 people were granted citizenship. The citizenship
backlog, for which INS has been roundly denounced on and off Capitol Hill, now
stands at 1.7 million cases.

The INS's priority is to address the citizenship backlog before tackling the
delay in green card adjudications, Schmidt said.

Much of the rising green card backlog owes to Congress's decision in the
mid-1990s to allow illegal immigrants eligible for permanent residency to pay a
fine and file their paperwork at INS offices within the United States. Before,
they had to leave the country and apply at U.S. consulates abroad.

"Congress placed an enormous burden on the INS at the same time as citizenship
applications increased dramatically," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of
the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that favors reduced legal
immigration rates. "Some people are going to point to this as another sign of
the INS's dysfunction but in fact this is really a consequence of Congress's
decision, not INS's."

Nearly three-quarters of the green cards granted last year went to relatives of
U.S. citizens, as expected under a federal immigration policy that places
highest priority on the reunification of families. Another 77,517 green cards
were granted for business reasons, while refugees and people seeking asylum
accounted for nearly 55,000 cases.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              19 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 14, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

METRO IN BRIEF

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03; METRO IN BRIEF

LENGTH: 1051 words



MARYLAND


Laurel Firm Fined for Firing Workers

A Maryland food processing plant was ordered to pay more than $ 380,000 for
illegally firing two Salvadoran women legally allowed to work in the United
States. The Justice Department said the fine is the largest civil penalty ever
imposed for discrimination under federal immigration laws.

Townsend Culinary Inc., of Laurel, fired Delmy Guerrero and Ana Torres when they
did not provide documents issued by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
proving their legal status, according to Wednesday's decision.

By requiring the INS documents, the company imposed a higher standard of
documentation than is required by law, according to the Justice Department.
Administrative Law Judge Joseph E. McGuire also found that the company imposed
similar hiring standards on 660 other legal immigrants.

As part of the decision, rendered in a federal immigration court in Falls
Church, the food company must give the two women their jobs back and pay $
13,400 in back wages.


Request to Spread Sludge Withdrawn

A British construction and mining company has withdrawn its application for a
state permit to apply sewage sludge to 275 acres of land in Prince George's
County.

Bardon Inc. suspended its plan to apply 17,000 tons of sludge to unused portions
of Hyde Field, an airfield on Route 223 in Clinton, after 50 nearby residents
protested.

"With so much political heat and the neighbors in such an uproar, we thought it
would be better to temporarily withdraw the application and go through an
education process," said Tim Bevard, an environmental manager for Bardon.

Bardon would have applied the sludge, from the Blue Plains Wastewater Treatment
Plant, to reclaim land it had been mining for sand and gravel. The airport's
operations would not have been affected.

Bardon may reapply for a permit after meeting with the community. Earnest
Clayton, a neighborhood activist, said that "if Bardon tries it again, we'll be
out there protesting again."


VIRGINIA


State Begins I-81 Improvements

Rumble strips and other safety improvements are underway on crowded Interstate
81, where traffic has doubled over the last 20 years with up to 40 percent of
that traffic coming from tractor-trailers.

Fatal crashes on the interstate this year focused attention on the highway,
which runs for 236 miles in Virginia, from Winchester to Bristol.

The Virginia Department of Transportation has begun installing rumble strips on
the shoulders of I-81 to alert drivers if they drift off the road. A VDOT
official says the strips have reduced off-the-road accidents by up to 70 percent
in other parts of the country.

Other planned improvements include a safety patrol between Botetourt and
Montgomery counties to clear accidents off the road and large signs to warn
drivers of traffic and weather conditions. The improvements are meant as stopgap
measures until I-81 is widened from six to eight lanes. That project may take 20
years to finish.


DMV Web Site to Renew Driver's Licenses

The state Department of Motor Vehicles has been so pleased with the online car
registration system launched May 17 that it will expand the use of its Internet
site this fall to include the ability to renew driver's licenses.

Drivers also will be able to order specialty license plates and pay for them by
credit card on the department's Web site, www.dmv.state.va.us.

Internet registrations jumped from 184 in May to 1,303 in June to 3,450 in July.
That's just a fraction of the 350,000 total registrations each month, "but it's
giving people more options--options that can save time," said Pam Goheen, a DMV
spokeswoman.


THE DISTRICT


Convention Center Lawsuit Dismissed

A U.S. district judge has dismissed a lawsuit filed last year by opponents of
the new convention center who had alleged that $ 55 million in city taxes were
illegally collected to finance construction.

Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly ruled Thursday that the plaintiffs, D.C. residents
and businesses, should have filed the suit in D.C. Superior Court because
federal courts may not intervene in local tax disputes until local remedies have
been exhausted.

She did not address the core question: whether the D.C. Council failed to
properly pass legislation authorizing collection of hotel and restaurant taxes
to support the $ 685 million project.

Daniel M. Schember, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said his clients have not
told him whether they want to file the suit in Superior Court or appeal the
federal ruling.


Past-Due Foster Care Bills to Be Paid

Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D) gave the go-ahead yesterday for the city to make
millions of dollars in overdue payments for children's services. The mayor's
office has been entangled in a budget battle with Ernestine F. Jones, the
court-appointed receiver for the D.C. foster care system.

Jones, completing her second year as the child welfare system's receiver, relies
upon the D.C. government for funding. She and Williams's staff have quarreled
over spending practices, and lately the differences have stalled payments to
foster care parents and numerous contractors who care for about 3,000 children.

Vincent Gray, who leads a consortium of child welfare providers, said he
understood that Jones's agency was facing a shortfall of at least $ 13 million
for the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. Williams agreed yesterday to
have the two sides jointly review invoices so that payments can be made, with
the most-overdue bills given highest priority.

Gray said some foster care providers hadn't been fully paid for months and were
preparing to take the dispute to court when the crisis was resolved at "the
eleventh hour."


QUOTE OF THE DAY


"He was not speeding. There was nothing he was doing to contribute to the
accident. You have to have that sort of negligence. This case doesn't come
close."

--Howard Merker, a Baltimore County prosecutor, explaining why no criminal
negligence charge has been filed against the driver of a truck that caused a
pedestrian overpass to collapse on the Baltimore Beltway, killing one person and
injuring three. The truck was carrying a backhoe that extended over state limits
and hit the overpass.

--Page B5




LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              20 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 25, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Sued Over Investor Rules; Agency Illegally Changed Policy, Foreign
Applicants Allege

Ben White, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 638 words


A group of 200 foreigners filed suit against the federal government yesterday,
alleging that the Immigration and Naturalization Service illegally changed the
rules governing a controversial policy that grants legal immigrant status to
foreigners who promise to invest at least $ 500,000 in the United States and
create at least 10 jobs here.

The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in San Francisco, contends that INS
exceeded its authority by changing the policy in late 1997 and again last year,
making it harder for some foreign investors to get final approval for their
business plans and thus have their temporary resident status changed to
permanent.

The INS contends that the basic requirements of the program remain the same and
the changes simply clarified the rules to preclude a rash of complex financial
plans that may have met the letter of the original law but in reality did not
invest any money or create jobs.

Congress passed the controversial immigration program in 1990 to spur foreign
investment and job creation in the United States. It created a new visa category
conferring resident status on foreigners who submitted business plans promising
to create at least 10 U.S. jobs by investing at least $ 1 million--or $ 500,000
in some high-unemployment areas--in new or existing businesses.

To have their resident status changed from temporary to permanent, foreign
investors must demonstrate that they actually invested the money and created the
jobs.

It is that verification process that the plaintiffs--and the American marketing
and investment firm that put together their business plans--contend INS has
illegally changed without public review or comment, leaving the investors and
their family members in danger of deportation.

"These people can't go forward, they can't go backward and they can't go side to
side," said Bill Cook, a former INS counsel who now represents the Greenbelt
firm American Immigration Services (AIS), which assembled the business plans for
the 200 plaintiffs.

"They are basically stuck in limbo," Cook said. "What you have here is the
people at [INS] don't understand these complex transactions and, automatically,
anything that they don't understand becomes fraud and abuse."

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron, however, said the agency began to see a dramatic
rise in applications for the foreign investor visas in 1997. That increase, he
said, prompted the agency's general counsel to review the plans being put
together by AIS and other firms and to rule that they did not meet the visa
program's requirements.

In 1998, according to Bergeron, the INS's Administrative Appeals Office issued
four "precedent" rulings further clarifying what criteria investors would have
to meet to have their plans approved and ultimately have their temporary
resident status made permanent.

"On the surface, they appeared to meet the requirements of the law," Bergeron
said. "But [INS] examiners were raising questions and basically what they were
saying was, while these plans on the surface created the appearance of investing
$ 500,000, they were so complicated and convoluted in their structure that it
was difficult to ascertain if that was actually the case."

Bergeron said the plaintiffs in the San Francisco lawsuit--and any other foreign
investors--are free to draft new business plans to clarify that they have
actually invested at least $ 500,000 and created at least 10 jobs.

"All INS is saying is: 'Show me the money. Where is the money?' " Bergeron said.

Cook, however, argues that INS is changing the rules without informing the
foreign investors, making compliance impossible.

"The sad commentary here is the refusal of [INS] to sit down and tell [the
investors] what they want. We've been reduced to trying to guess," Cook said.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              21 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    September 5, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Court Rules Against Immigration Statute; Law Applies to Out-of-Wedlock Births

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO



A long-standing immigration law making it easier for a child born out of wedlock
overseas to become a U.S. citizen if the child's mother is a citizen is
unconstitutional sex discrimination, a federal appeals court has ruled.

The law, passed during the Korean War, applies to children born abroad to one
U.S. citizen parent and one foreign parent who are not married.

If the mother is a U.S. citizen, the child is automatically a U.S. citizen
provided the mother has lived in the United States continuously for a year.

If the father is a U.S. citizen, additional requirements apply: The father must
agree in writing to support the child until age 18, and paternity must be
established by marriage, a sworn acknowledgment by the father or a court
finding.

The law relies on "outdated stereotypes . . . the generalization that mothers
are more likely to have close ties to and care for their children than are
fathers," said the opinion written by Judge Mary Schroeder and issued Thursday.
She said the law also "presumes that a father will not care for and support his
child unless required to do so."

Judge Arthur Alarcon agreed, but Judge Andrew Kleinfeld dissented, saying the
majority had misunderstood the Supreme Court ruling. He also said the law had a
"rational purpose" that "may not be pretty" but should not be questioned by
courts: to limit the citizenship claims of children fathered by U.S. soldiers in
Korea.

The ruling overturned the conviction of Ricardo Ahumada-Aguilar, Mexican-born
son of a Mexican mother and a U.S. citizen father. Ahumada became a legal U.S.
resident in California at 13, after his mother married a U.S. citizen, but he
was deported seven years later after a cocaine conviction.

He reentered the country twice and was charged in Seattle in 1995 with the crime
of illegal entry after deportation. A judge rejected his claim of citizenship
and sentenced him to a year and three months in prison.


LOAD-DATE: September 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              22 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 24, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 664 words



Organ Donation

Initiative Set


The White House plans today to initiate renewed efforts to try to alleviate the
nation's persistent shortage of Americans willing to donate organs to patients
who need transplants.

Vice President Gore will announce that 18 communities, including the District
and Baltimore, have been selected to receive a total of $ 5 million in federal
money as the first phase of a new grants program intended to teach students and
adults about the importance of donating organs, encourage family members to
discuss donation, and to make it easier to register.

INS Chief Sees

Need for Overhaul


A Senate proposal to abolish the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
replace it with a new, reorganized Justice Department agency got a cautiously
positive reception yesterday from the head of the INS.

Doris M. Meissner told the Senate Judiciary immigration subcommittee that she
agrees her agency needs an overhaul, even though she disagrees with some details
of the proposal. She said the INS structure that blends keeping illegal aliens
out and processing legal immigrants is "a strained structure designed for a
different era."

The panel's chairman, Sen. Spencer Abraham (R-Mich.), is sponsoring a bill that
would replace the INS with an Immigration Affairs Agency that would have two
bureaus--one to enforce immigration laws and patrol the borders and another to
handle the cases of legal immigrants.


Ex-Baucus Aide to File

Harassment Complaint


Christine Niedermeier, former chief of staff for Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.), said
she will file a complaint today with Congress's Office of Compliance alleging
that Baucus engaged in "sexual harassment, gender discrimination and
retaliation" against her while she was employed by him from May 1998 through
July of this year.

Niedermeier, who aired the charges earlier this month, said Baucus made improper
comments, including "suggestions of a desire to have a relationship," and that
she was fired in retaliation for complaining to him about his conduct. Baucus
again denied that he harassed Niedermeier "in any way" and said she was
dismissed because she "abused my staff, abused my constituents and abused other
people she dealt with on the job."


Ban on Sampling

Boosts Census Cost


A Supreme Court ban on using statistical sampling to take next year's census is
the main factor in a $ 1.7 billion boost in the count's cost, the General
Accounting Office reported.

The Census Bureau had planned to use statistical sampling--counting more than 90
percent of Americans directly and then estimating the remainder--in the 2000
count, contending that it would save money and be more accurate than the 1990
effort. Following the ban on sampling, the Census Bureau requested additional
funds for the census.


Boehner Introduces

Patients' Rights Bill


As the House prepares to debate how much to regulate HMOs, Rep. John A. Boehner
(R-Ohio) introduced legislation that reflects a conservative approach to
"patients' rights" favored by most of the chamber's Republican leaders.

Boehner's bill would set up a powerful new appeals system for patients to
protest when they are denied care and would make it somewhat easier for patients
to get emergency room bills paid and to visit the doctors they want.

Unlike a similar measure Boehner pushed through a House subcommittee in June,
the protections in his revised bill would apply to all Americans with private
health insurance. But unlike two other HMO bills before the House, it would not
give patients greater rights to sue their health plans for malpractice.


Ethics Probe

Moves Forward


The House ethics committee announced it was appointing an investigative
subcommittee to determine whether Rep. Earl Hilliard (D-Ala.) had improperly
used campaign and office resources and failed to comply with financial
disclosure requirements. Hilliard said there was no merit to the charges.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              23 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 21, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Classified Evidence Ruled Out in Deportation

Lorraine Adams; David A. Vise, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 497 words


A federal judge ruled yesterday in a landmark decision that the use in court
against immigrants of classified terrorism evidence that they are not allowed to
see is unconstitutional.

U.S. District Judge William Walls in Newark, N.J., ordered the defendant in the
case, Hany Kiareldeen, a 32-year-old Palestinian immigrant, released. Kiareldeen
had been held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service since March 1998
pending deportation proceedings because the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force had
developed secret information that he had hosted a meeting with terrorists
planning the World Trade Center bombing at his home and had talked of murdering
Attorney General Janet Reno.

"The court cannot justify the government's attempt to 'allow [people] to be
convicted on unsworn testimony of witnesses--a practice which runs counter to
the notions of fairness on which our legal system is founded,' " ruled Walls.

The use of classified evidence in some immigration proceedings was first
authorized by the 1996 anti-terrorism bill that followed the World Trade Center
and Oklahoma City bombings. The controversial provision has been used in
approximately two dozen cases around the country in which the INS asserted
national security concerns as the basis for depriving immigrants of the right to
examine and confront adverse witnesses and evidence. All of the cases are
against Arab or Muslim immigrants.

"For the first time, a federal court has weighed the constitutionality of the
use of secret evidence and found it unconstitutional. This may call into
question other INS proceedings where classified information has been used," said
Juliette Kayyem, a former Justice Department attorney and current member of the
National Commission on Terrorism charged by Congress with assessing U.S.
terrorism laws.

The FBI reports detailing the source of the information linking Kiareldeen to
terrorists were not divulged to Kiareldeen or his attorneys. Kiareldeen denied
the charges and said they were likely to have come from his ex-wife, with whom
he was involved in a custody dispute.

Kiareldeen had lived in the United States since 1990, when he entered from
Israel on a student visa. In 1994, he married and had a daughter. After a bitter
divorce, he remarried and petitioned to become a permanent resident. The INS and
FBI arrested him for overstaying the period of his student visa and argued he
should be deported on the basis of the FBI terrorism information.

"Despite repeated requests from the Immigration Judge, the government made no
recorded efforts to produce witnesses, either in camera or in public, to support
its allegations of terrorism. The petitioner was thus denied the opportunity to
meaningfully cross-examine even one person during his extended detour through
the INS administrative procedures," Judge Walls wrote in his opinion. "The INS
actions unconstitutionally damaged Kiareldeen's due process right to confront
his accusers."


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              24 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 3, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

Secret Evidence

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A34

LENGTH: 428 words


THE GOVERNMENT released Hany Mahmoud Kiareldeen last week, following a series of
decisions holding that the secret evidence on which he was being detained was
unpersuasive and that his confinement was unconstitutional. The government
contended that Mr. Kiareldeen, a Palestinian who has lived in this country for
nearly 10 years, was a member of a terrorist group, had been peripherally
involved in the World Trade Center bombing conspiracy and wanted to kill
Attorney General Janet Reno. The Immigration and Naturalization Service had held
him since March of last year. Only after seven immigration judges declared the
secret evidence unreliable and a U.S. district judge granted Mr. Kiareldeen
habeas corpus relief did the government back down.

Mr. Kiareldeen's case is unusual only in degree. The reality is that in a bunch
of secret evidence cases during the past few years, the evidence has proven
embarrassingly weak or not all that sensitive. For example, an immigration judge
initially held that Nasser Ahmed was a national security threat based on the
government's secret showing. But when the government released some of the
evidence against Mr. Ahmed in response to a subsequent lawsuit, Mr. Ahmed was
able to rebut the evidence sufficiently to convince the same judge that he had
erred. Yet Mr. Ahmed, who has been held more than three years for allegedly
being a member of an Islamic fundamentalist terrorist group, remains behind bars
while the government appeals.

When the government sought to use secret evidence to kick out six Iraqis brought
to this country by the CIA following the collapse of an American-backed Iraqi
opposition base, the defense could not even get a summary of the material. Later
the government admitted the material had been erroneously classified. In another
case, the government arrested and sought to deport eight Los Angeles activists
for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine on the basis of secret
evidence. But when it suited the government's purposes to use that evidence in
open court in the litigation that followed, it did so.

The reality is that the use of secret evidence is antithetical to the premises
of our judicial system. It is easy to imagine cases in which an alien poses a
genuine national security threat yet the disclosure of the evidence against him
would threaten national security as well. But the answer cannot simply be to
permit procedures that are unfair and likely to yield inaccurate findings. There
is a reason defense lawyers are a part of our judicial system.

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              25 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 5, 1999, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 497 words



Panel Backs Bill to Replace INS


The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be abolished under legislation
a House subcommittee approved yesterday and would be replaced by separate
bureaus for services and enforcement of the nation's immigration laws.

The Clinton administration, congressional Democrats and immigrant advocacy
groups, which all agree that the INS must be restructured, complained that the
proposal would create new confusion and shortchange the services side that is
responsible for doling out citizenship and other immigration benefits.

The chairman of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, however, said the
measure "eliminates the mission conflict and overload of the current INS."

"We are hearing from every part of the country that the INS has now edged out
the IRS for the agency Americans most want reformed," said Rep. Lamar S. Smith
(R-Tex.), citing the backlog of 4 million applications for citizenship, green
cards or other benefits.


Hearing Set for Moseley-Braun


Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) said former senator
Carol Moseley-Braun (D-Ill.) will get a confirmation hearing today to be
ambassador to New Zealand.

Helms has said his former colleague is under an "ethical cloud," citing
questions about her campaign spending and trips she made to Nigeria. But civil
rights groups and some congressional Democrats have suggested that a 1993 clash
on the Senate floor between Helms and Moseley-Braun over use of the Confederate
flag had stalled the confirmation.

Helms, who will not attend the hearing, designated Sen. Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.),
chairman of the subcommittee with jurisdiction over Pacific matters, to preside.


For the Record


* President Clinton asked Congress for $ 429 million to buy 12,000 houses ruined
by floods from Hurricane Floyd. North Carolina would receive $ 381 million for
the 11,000 homes destroyed by 20 inches of rain in September if Congress passes
a special waiver allowing the Federal Emergency Management Agency to spend more
than $ 58 million to buy homes.


* The president asked Congress to pass a $ 1 increase in the minimum wage--to $
6.15 an hour--over two years without attaching pro-business tax cuts that would
spend future budget surpluses. "If Congress sends me a bill that threatens our
fiscal discipline, I will veto it," Clinton wrote in a letter to Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.).


* West Virginia Democrats renewed their push for a measure aimed at reversing a
recent court decision prohibiting coal companies from dumping waste into area
streams. The administration had initially expressed some support for the rider
but now opposes it because the federal judge has stayed his ruling on the case.
"It's just a blatant attempt to remove the most important stream protection
provisions from the Clean Water Act and the Surface Mining Act," said Joe
Lovett, the plaintiff's attorney.






LOAD-DATE: November 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 1999

CORRECTION: Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) is chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee. An item in yesterday's Washington in Brief cited the wrong committee.

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              26 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 13, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration at Justice

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 92 words



In her Nov. 8 op-ed column, "Denying Asylum to a Battered Woman," Esta Soler
incorrectly stated that the Board of Immigration Appeals, which recently denied
asylum to a Guatemalan woman who had been battered by her husband, is the
"highest court within the [Immigration and Naturalization Service]."

In fact, the Board of Immigration Appeals is not a part of the INS. Although the
INS and the Board of Immigration Appeals are both within the U.S. Department of
Justice, they are separate components.

MICHAEL L. SOZAN

Alexandria



LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              27 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 30, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

INS Drops Plea to Reno to Detain Egyptian

Lorraine Adams; David A. Vise, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 567 words


Immigration officials unexpectedly withdrew their request yesterday that
Attorney General Janet Reno overturn a judge's order to release an Egyptian
accused by the FBI of being a terrorist.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's abrupt about-face meant that Nasser
K. Ahmed, 39, was released last night after 3 1/2 years in a New York jail. His
case is not yet settled, however. Early next year, an immigration appeals board
is slated to review both Ahmed's application for political asylum and a request
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service that he be deported.

Ahmed was incarcerated in 1996 based on classified FBI evidence linking him to
Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the blind Muslim cleric convicted of conspiring to blow
up the United Nations. It was Rahman's conviction that FBI officials believe
inspired the 1997 U.S. Embassy bombings in East Africa.

Yesterday's development concerns a narrow but important facet of a complicated
deportation and political asylum case that has attracted international
attention. Opponents of the use of secret evidence, including the American Civil
Liberties Union and the Arab American community, have described it as an example
of FBI misconduct and unconstitutional detention.

Two weeks ago, after the Board of Immigration Appeals upheld a judge's order to
release Ahmed on bond, the INS asked Reno to overturn the decision. Had Reno
done so, Ahmed would have remained in jail pending the board's determination of
the merits of his asylum and deportation case. But yesterday, as Reno's deadline
for a decision approached, the INS withdrew its request.

"A week ago today, the INS filed a very vehement brief arguing that this man
posed a threat and should be detained," said David D. Cloud, one of Ahmed's
attorneys. "Today at the last minute they withdrew their request.

"It's a face-saving measure for the INS and it avoids them having a bad decision
on record from [Reno]. Nonetheless it means that after 3 1/2 years, Nasser Ahmed
is finally a free man."

The INS released the following statement: "Upon further review of the
information available, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has withdrawn
its request to have the Attorney General take the extraordinary step of
reviewing the decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals that Nasser Ahmed be
released while his case is pending on appeal before the Board."

Justice Department officials declined to comment on the record, but one
department official said, "There will be a hearing in a couple of months and the
government will continue to move for denial of his asylum request."

The INS has been trying to deport Ahmed since 1996, saying he was a national
security threat. Around the same time, Ahmed applied for political asylum,
saying he would be tortured if returned to his native Egypt. The FBI said the
evidence against Ahmed was classified and could not be revealed to him, or to
immigration Judge Donn Livingston. In 1997, Livingston ruled that Ahmed should
be deported.

But Ahmed appealed in federal court, challenging the constitutionality of the
use of classified evidence. Ahmed prevailed in part, and the FBI was compelled
to release portions of the evidence, which Ahmed's attorneys then worked to
refute.

This summer, Livingston reversed his earlier decision, saying most of the FBI's
evidence was "double or triple hearsay."


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 1999

CORRECTION: An article yesterday misspelled the name of David D. Cole, one of
Nasser K. Ahmed's attorneys in a political asylum and deportation case.

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              28 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 3, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

No More Secret Evidence

David Cole

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A41

LENGTH: 768 words



Late Monday afternoon, facing a rebuke from the attorney general, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service freed Nasser Ahmed, an Egyptian immigrant
whom it had held for more than 3 1/2 years on secret evidence. As one of Ahmed's
attorneys, I was elated. No one had been detained on secret evidence longer than
he had. But his release still leaves another 20 or so immigration cases across
the country in which the INS is using secret evidence. And the way the INS
resolved Ahmed's case suggests that its main interest was avoiding a negative
ruling on its broader practice.

The practice of using secret evidence is one that until recently few outside the
immigrant community were even aware existed. In a criminal case, no matter how
serious the charges, the government must put all its evidence on the table. Our
system is based on the notion that truth is best ascertained by allowing each
side to challenge the other's evidence in open court. Yet the INS claims the
extraordinary power to detain and expel immigrants on the basis of evidence
submitted only to an immigration judge behind closed doors. Neither the
immigrant nor his attorney is entitled to see the evidence.

Several courts in the past decade have ruled that secret evidence violates the
principles of due process. Yet each time the INS has lost a secret evidence
case, it has sought to avoid a definitive ruling on the matter, while continuing
to engage in the practice.

In 1992 a federal district court in Washington held unconstitutional the INS's
use of secret evidence to expel Fouad Rafeedie, a permanent resident accused of
terrorist ties to a Palestinian group. The court ruled that secret evidence
"afford[s] virtually none of the procedural protections designed to minimize the
risk that the government may err." The INS, which had until then argued that
Rafeedie must be expelled as a threat to national security, dropped the case and
allowed him to remain permanently.

In 1995 the Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit held unconstitutional the INS's
use of secret evidence to oppose two Palestinians' applications for permanent
resident status. The court found that "[o]ne would be hard pressed to design a
procedure more likely to result in erroneous deprivations." Again, the INS
declined to appeal, and granted the aliens green cards.

Despite these defeats, the INS continued the practice. In 1998 it used secret
evidence to expel a group of Iraqis who had been airlifted to this country after
participating in a CIA-backed coup attempt against Saddam Hussein. When former
director of central intelligence Jim Woolsey volunteered to defend the Iraqis
and took their case to Congress and the press, the INS was suddenly able to
declassify and disclose 95 percent of the previously secret evidence, and then
settled the case by freeing the aliens and allowing them to live here in
exchange for their dropping their legal challenge.

Just last month a federal district court in New Jersey ruled that the use of
secret evidence to detain Hany Kiareldeen, a Palestinian, was unconstitutional.
The INS had imprisoned Kiareldeen for 19 months as a national security threat,
but faced with a negative court decision, it dropped its efforts to deport him
and released him. Now it is seeking to have the district court decision vacated
as moot.

Monday's decision in Ahmed's case is cut from the same cloth.

On Nov. 20, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner personally referred the Ahmed case
to the attorney general, asking her to reverse two immigration court decisions
that he should be released. Three days later, the INS filed a brief vigorously
maintaining that Ahmed could not be released without endangering the nation. Yet
moments before the attorney general was about to rule on the INS's referral, the
INS announced it was "withdrawing" the referral. Quite plainly, the attorney
general gave the INS a face-saving way to confess error.

So once again the INS freed a man who for years it had said would endanger
national security by his very presence. And once again the INS avoided a
definitive ruling on the use of secret evidence. As a result, we can expect that
the INS will continue to engage in this practice, despite its consistent string
of losses, and despite the fact that every federal court to address the practice
in the past decade has declared it unconstitutional. Is this how an agency
responsible for law enforcement should treat the law?


The writer, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, has represented
several immigrants in secret evidence cases.



LOAD-DATE: December 03, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              29 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 6, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

INS Raids Follow Union Organizing; Aliens Say Law Is Being Misused

Nurith C. Aizenman, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1619 words



For months the chambermaids at the Holiday Inn Express in downtown Minneapolis
had been pressing for a half-hour lunch break on their seven-hour shift and a
raise in wages. Norma Lerma del Toro, a single mother from one of Mexico's
poorest provinces, hoped to use the extra cash to buy more clothes for her three
children.

Finally, in August, Lerma and the other workers voted to join Local 17 of the
Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union. But last month,
three weeks before the union was scheduled to begin contract negotiations, the
manager enacted what to workers seemed like carefully plotted revenge: He called
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to check on the immigration status of
some of his employees. INS agents arrested half of the 16 workers at the
hotel--including Lerma, who now faces deportation.

"We just wanted better treatment," she says. "None of us ever imagined this
would happen."

U.S. labor law forbids employers to retaliate against workers for union
activity. But labor organizers from New York City to San Jose say that employers
are increasingly circumventing that prohibition by using a 1986 immigration law
to selectively target undocumented workers who push for better conditions. The
labor movement sees in immigrants a prime source of new members to boost its
dwindling ranks. Now the AFL-CIO--which actively lobbied to pass the 1986
law--is thinking of calling for its repeal.

"Anyone who is trying to organize workers in America today has got to grapple
with the fact that employers are abusing the immigration system to terrorize
workers," said John W. Wilhelm, president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant
Employees International Union and chairman of the AFL-CIO committee charged with
reexamining the federation's position.

Indeed, as immigrants come to dominate the work force in many of the nation's
lowest-wage industries, incidents like those at Holiday Inn Express are becoming
the battleground for a new and growing wave of labor disputes. With so much at
stake, they are forcing a dramatic shift in the labor movement's position on
immigration and its view of immigrants themselves.

The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act is best known for extending an
amnesty to some 3 million illegal immigrants who had arrived in the United
States before 1982. It also sought to shut the door on further illegal
immigration by requiring that employers verify the immigration status of their
employees or face fines and even jail time.

The "employer sanctions" provision has been widely criticized since its
inception. Civil rights groups complain that it encourages employers to
discriminate against Hispanic and other foreign-seeming job applicants. Others
say the problem is that the law is poorly enforced--largely because it is so
hard to prove that companies knowingly employ undocumented workers. In 1997, the
most recent year for which statistics are available, the INS investigated only
5,361 out of the more than 569,000 companies with more than 20 employees
operating in the United States, and fined only 888 of them.

John Hiatt, general counsel of the AFL-CIO, says that keeping the employer
sanctions law on the books without enforcing it has created another, and until
now, largely unnoticed problem: "There is no disincentive for employers to hire
undocumented workers, yet employers who want to get rid of people [for union
activity] can say they're doing it out of fear of employer sanctions. It's the
worst of both worlds."

Employers such as Lerma's manager, Kevin Koenig, insist that they are merely
trying to comply with the immigration law, and that their efforts just happen to
coincide with union activity.

"If I wanted to not have the union here, why wouldn't I turn them in before the
vote? So it didn't have anything to do with that," Koenig said. Instead, he
says, he was acting on a tip from an "outside source" that some of his employees
were illegal immigrants.

Because these cases often occur in the murky underground economy of illegal
labor, it is impossible to determine how prevalent they are--let alone how often
employers are telling the truth.

Employers also complain that the law unfairly targets them.

"Why aren't unions violating the law by not checking the documents of their
union members?" asked Sharon Hughes, executive vice president of the National
Council of Agricultural Employers.

Undocumented workers have little legal protection against employers who dismiss
them for union involvement. They can file charges with the National Labor
Relations Board, but the board can mandate their reinstatement only if they
demonstrate that they are authorized to work. And while INS internal policy
warns immigration agents against being used by employers to disrupt union
organizing, agents often find out about the organizing only after they conduct a
raid.

Labor organizers say unscrupulous employers are also aided by the Social
Security Administration's practice of sending out notification letters to
employers with a large number of employees whose Social Security numbers don't
match the agency's records. The "mis-match letters" are not intended to catch
illegal immigrants per se, but rather to help the agency sort out errors in its
database. And the letters do not legally require employers to take any
particular action. But union organizers say employers often use the letters as a
pretext for retaliating against undocumented workers involved in union drives.

Organizers cite the example of a San Jose food processing plant, Zoria Farms
Inc. In March 1998, workers at the dried-food factory had recently voted to join
Local 428 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union and were in the midst
of contentious contract negotiations with management.

Then the company announced that it had received a mis-match letter citing more
than 50 of the 93 employees in the union. Unless those workers could prove they
were legal immigrants, said management, they would have to leave. The workers,
all of whom were undocumented, had no choice but to quit.

The chief financial officer at Zoria Farms, Paul Troutner, said the company's
action had nothing to do with the contract negotiations. "We received notices
from Social Security that said that if [the employees listed in the letter]
can't work here legally, we should get rid of them," he said. "This happened
after the company was unionized, and Social Security contacted us, we did not
contact them."

The district manager of the East San Jose Social Security Administration office,
Vic Borba, said the agency sent a mis-match letter to Zoria Farms, but that
agency representatives never told company officials they should fire the
workers. "That has never been stated," said Borba. "We don't even imply that."

As a precaution, and following several complaints from the AFL-CIO, the Social
Security Administration in February will begin using a revised version of the
mis-match letter that expressly warns employers against using the letter as an
excuse to intimidate workers.

Disputes like those at Zoria Farms are gradually giving rise to a fundamental
shift in the way the AFL-CIO views the immigrant work force.

In 1986, the AFL-CIO pushed Congress to pass the employer sanctions law on the
grounds that undocumented workers steal jobs from American workers and undermine
labor standards. But this summer, a series of local labor councils passed
resolutions calling for a repeal of employer sanctions and an amnesty for the
nation's estimated 5 million illegal immigrants. In response, at the AFL-CIO's
annual convention in Los Angeles in October, federation leaders for the first
time debated the issue.

"Existing laws and policies do not protect any of us," said Frank Hurt, who
headed the union committee that developed the AFL-CIO's policy in 1986. "Instead
they arm employers with additional weapons to further undermine workers'
rights."

Employers' associations debate that contention, arguing that in today's tight
labor market the last thing employers want to do is get rid of workers--even
those engaged in union drives. "Our members aren't firing anyone," said John
Gay, director of governmental affairs at the American Hotel and Motel
Association. "They're not worried about unionizing, they're worried about
finding enough employees."

For different reasons, employers agree with the labor union's call for both a
repeal of employer sanctions and an amnesty program for illegal workers. And
though there are no proposals on the table, it's possible that this confluence
of interests may eventually lead Congress to change the law.

Whatever the outcome, it is unlikely to happen soon enough for Norma Lerma del
Toro, who is getting by on funds raised from a local church while she awaits
word on whether the INS will deport her from Minneapolis to Mexico.

"I don't know what I will do if I have to go back," she says. "I don't have
anything there. No money and no place to live."


Illegal Workers


The 10 states with the highest illegal immigrant population:


Number of illegal immigrants, 1996


Calif.  2 million

Tex.  700,000

N.Y.  540,000

Fla.  350,000

Ill.  290,000

N.J.  135,000

Ariz.  115,000

Mass.  85,000

Va.  55,000

Wash.  52,000


SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service

Mexican Reyna Albino, left, is embraced on release from INS custody by Jaye
Rykunyk, an official of Local 17, which posted bond for hotel workers. Hundreds
gather in front of the Holiday Inn Express hotel Oct. 18 in a candlelight vigil
for the eight Mexican hotel workers detained by the INS after a raid.


LOAD-DATE: December 06, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              30 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 22, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

Canadians Examine Lapses in Security; Suspected Terrorist Benefits From Bungling
by Police, Immigration Agents

Steven Pearlstein, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1180 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Dec. 21


Embarrassed Canadian officials were scrambling today to explain how a suspected
Algerian terrorist managed to elude them for nearly six years before getting
caught by U.S. border police as he allegedly tried to smuggle a homemade bomb
into Seattle last week.

Documents released this week in Ottawa and Montreal tell a tale of bungling by
police and immigration officials as well as skillful manipulation of Canada's
open-armed immigration system by the mysterious Algerian, Ahmed Ressam.

The revelations prompted criticism from Canadian legislators that echoed
complaints long expressed privately by U.S. officials that lax border controls
and open immigration policies have combined to make Canada an easy route on the
way to the United States for terrorists, drug traffickers and illegal
immigrants.

Ressam arrived in Canada in February 1994 with a fake French passport and a
criminal record for illegal arm sales. But immigration officials acknowledge
that it took them nearly four years to issue an arrest warrant and deportation
order for Ressam despite his repeated failures to show up at hearings on his
petition for refugee status.

Even after the deportation order was issued, Montreal police apparently released
Ressam from custody after he completed a two-week jail term for theft.

Then, in February, the Foreign Ministry issued him a passport under the name of
Benni Noris, according to a report in today's Globe & Mail. This is the name
Ressam used to get a driver's license, register a van, rent an apartment and
obtain a permit to operate a convenience store.

"Our system is a sieve," complained Leon Benoit, a member of the opposition
Reform Party in the House of Commons.

"Bumbling crime control," declared the editorial in this morning's National
Post.

Following a cabinet meeting on Monday, Prime Minister Jean Chretien said
Canada's protections against terrorists were "adequate."

"When you are receiving 250,000 [immigrants] a year," he said, "there might be
some people who come that don't have the best intentions."

And Derik Hodgson, a spokesman for the minister of Citizenship and Immigration,
charged that "a note of hysteria" had surrounded media coverage of Ressam's
arrest and the alleged prospect of millennial terrorism.

Immigration officials today confirmed that Ressam arrived at Montreal's Mirabel
Airport in February 1994 with a fake passport and immediately petitioned for
refugee status, as many Algerians had following the outbreak of civil war
between the government and Islamic extremist groups.

Ressam claimed that he had been arrested in 1992 by Algerian police, who accused
him of selling guns to the rebels--a charge he denied. He claimed he was held in
prison for 15 months, during which he was tortured until he signed a confession.
Upon release from jail, he said he fled to Morocco, Spain and France before
coming to Canada.

But when it was time for a hearing on his refugee claim, Ressam did not show
up--and in July 1995 the first of several deportation orders was issued. His
lawyer appealed the order to federal court, but by the time the appeal was
dismissed six months later, Canada had adopted a blanket policy of not deporting
people to Algeria. Instead, Ressam was ordered to check in with an immigration
officer once a month.

Within a year, Ressam was again missing his appointments, and another
deportation order was issued in May 1998.

Four months later, Ressam was arrested by Montreal police for stealing a
computer from a car. But when his two-week jail term was over, he was released.
Today, Montreal officials refused to answer questions on whether they checked
for outstanding warrants before his release.

At about the same time, according to unidentified sources quoted by the Globe &
Mail, Ressam applied for a passport under the alias Benni Noris, submitting a
forged baptismal certificate, which is accepted in lieu of a birth certificate
at passport offices in the heavily Roman Catholic province of Quebec.
Investigators believe Ressam used the false passport to travel to South Korea
and Los Angeles.

Also under the Noris name, Ressam rented a vacant storefront on LaCordaire
Street, in the city's East End, and obtained a permit from city hall to operate
a convenience store. Neighbors told the Montreal Gazette they saw Ressam and
several other men lugging in merchandise in recent weeks from an orange van,
which police later confirmed was registered to Noris. The Royal Canadian Mounted
Police searched both the van and the store on Sunday night but declined to
comment today on any evidence they might have found.

One focus of the Canadian investigation of Ressam is his relationship to Karim
Said Atmani, his one-time roommate in Montreal who has dual Algerian and Bosnian
citizenship. Intelligence officials believe Atmani is part of an Islamic
terrorist network operating in Europe. Canadian investigators believe Atmani may
have been Ressam's control officer in Montreal, where Atmani lived for several
years before being expelled in October 1998 for being in the country illegally,
according to an immigration department spokesperson. Police are investigating
reports that he may have reentered Canada and been with Ressam during his
three-week stay in Vancouver last month.

Officials on both sides of the border have long worried about Canada as a point
of entry for terrorists targeting the United States.

A report by the U.S. Justice Department last year faulted Canada for allowing
convicted terrorist Gazi Ibrahim Abu Mezer to enter Canada on a student visa in
1993 without checking his arrest record in Israel. Mezer entered the United
States from British Columbia and was arrested and sentenced to life in prison
for plotting to plant a bomb in the New York City subway.

And in Washington this week, Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said the country was at risk "as long as
terrorists can exploit Canada's immigration laws and penetrate the thinly
guarded U.S. border."

"The open nature of our society and the related policies concerning refugees and
immigrants make us particularly vulnerable to terrorist influences and
activities," Director Ward Elcock of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service,
Canada's CIA, told a panel of the Canadian Senate this year.

The CSIS also issued a report in July noting that there are more international
terrorist organizations active in Canada than any country in the world except
the United States. It said those groups have had a "direct or indirect
association" with the bombing of the World Trade Center in New York, suicide
bombings in Israel, assassinations in India and the bombing of a U.S. military
apartment complex in Saudi Arabia.

The Chretien government disputes that there is any link between the amount of
terrorist activity in Canada and its immigration laws.

Freddy Zouki, an Algerian who works in Montreal, reloads his minivan after an
inspection by U.S. Customs agents at the border crossing near Detroit.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              31 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     January 7, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Elian's Future

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 560 words


AS AN ABSTRACTION, Elian Gonzalez is the subject of a simple immigration matter.
As a 6-year-old boy, photographed for all the country to see smiling in the arms
of his relatives, Elian Gonzalez is a reminder that there are no simple
immigration matters. Every day, people's lives are directed one way or another
by American immigration law; now one of these has broken out of bureaucratic
anonymity and presented the country with a difficult flesh-and-blood reality,
greatly complicated by domestic and international politics.

Elian was rescued at sea after his mother and nine others attempting to flee
Cuba died in the sinking of their boat. On Wednesday Doris Meissner,
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, announced that her
agency had found no reason why Elian should not be returned to his father in
Cuba. The decision was immediately denounced by some Cuban Americans, who plan
to contest it in court; hundreds took to the streets of Miami yesterday,
blocking access to the port and occupying several busy intersections. There is
the possibility of uglier physical confrontation ahead: American authorities
having to take the child by force from angry relatives and protesters.

Some dismiss this as a furor over nothing much. "If this child came from
anywhere else, he would have been home within 48 hours," said an immigration law
professor quoted yesterday by the Associated Press. That's probably not quite
true (Iraq? Burma? Sudan?), but in any event, if he'd come here from anywhere
else, it likely wouldn't have been from a place where the inhabitants are, for
the most part, forbidden to leave the country.

It is the repressive nature of the Castro regime that raises doubts--not so much
about whether Elian ought to be reunited with his father as about what the
father's true feelings and desires are regarding the boy's future, and his own.
Commissioner Meissner acted on the basis of INS interviews with the father in
Cuba. She cited his "close and continuous relationship with his son," even after
he and Elian's mother were divorced.

We have argued here that some procedure ought to be devised to ensure that
Elian's best interests are protected and that his father's wishes are made
clear. That still seems to us the ideal way to resolve this unhappy situation:
Elian Gonzalez ought to be able to meet in the United States with his father
(and whatever other relatives might wish to visit from Cuba) in a protected and
relaxed setting for as long a time as they need to decide about their lives.

But it also seems clear that, given a case that can't possibly end to everyone's
satisfaction, the INS in this case has acted according to principle, and with as
little regard to politics as could be wished for. It's an understatement to say
that Fidel Castro did Elian no favor when he immediately turned his case into a
trumped-up anti-American crusade. Many of the Cuban Americans who want to keep
Elian in this country are acting in what they believe to be his best interests,
but those seeking to capitalize on the boy's sad loss and cute grin for their
own political ends similarly do the boy no good. Elian, like all Cubans, is a
victim of Mr. Castro's dictatorship. But if it can be established that he has a
loving father who wants to raise his son, that is where the son belongs.




LOAD-DATE: January 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              32 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   January 15, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

In Little Haiti, the Elian Fight Sheds a Painful Light; Miami Immigrants Say
Case Highlights Bias in U.S. Policies

Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1297 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



It was a church-like crowd that moved slowly toward the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service headquarters here on a busy evening this week. The women
were dressed in somber clothing; the men, in black pants and white Sunday
shirts. They held lighted candles aloft, and symbolic coffins draped in
black--representing the very real deaths recently of fellow Haitians trying to
reach the United States.

As this city has been convulsed by the debate surrounding a young Cuban boy
rescued at sea, the Haitian American community here has been working to remind
everyone that there is another large group of people in greater Miami, other
than Cuban Americans, who are dissatisfied with U.S. immigration policy and law.
To these Haitian immigrants and a growing number of African American
sympathizers, the unfair treatment they say they receive has its roots in a
lingering American problem.

"We've never been treated in an appropriate way," said Lavarice Gaudin, 31, a
Haitian American businessman who has been an organizer of a series of protests
this week. "It has to do with a lot of things, but I'm sorry to say that it is
this--it has to do with the color of skin, the racism. You can tell, whoever is
coming here from a white country, they have no problem. They get the red
carpet."

Miami may be the only city in the United States that has a Little Haiti and a
Little Havana--both of them large, thriving and close-knit communities--and that
fact has been critical in shaping the tensions and the public discourse here in
recent weeks.

Since Thanksgiving, Haitian Americans have watched as the custody battle over
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez reached an international boil, drawing the attention
of members of Congress and television cameras from around the world. Elian was
found off the south Florida coast, one of three survivors of a failed journey
from Cuba to America in which his mother died. When his father in Cuba and the
government of Fidel Castro demanded his return, and his Miami relatives launched
a fight to keep him here, an outcry in both countries ensued.

Overshadowed by the Elian story and its almost daily developments has been
another refugee episode that has broken the hearts of many Haitian Americans. On
New Year's Day, an overloaded fishing boat with more than 400 Haitians aboard
was turned away from the south Florida coast, its passengers transferred to
Coast Guard cutters and quickly sent back to Haiti--apparently with no questions
asked. Several people reportedly had died on the miserable journey over here.

Only after the refugees were returned did authorities learn that a pregnant
woman taken off the boat in Miami for medical treatment had been separated from
her two children, ages 8 and 9, who were sent back with another relative to
Haiti. The separation--coming as INS officials touted their goal of family
reunification in the Elian Gonzalez case--dismayed Haitian Americans already
upset about policies that, they say, tend to favor Cubans over other groups.

INS officials decided Thursday, in what was described by immigrant advocacy
groups as an unusual move, to grant the two Haitian children a "humanitarian
parole" of 90 days and reunite them with their mother here--at least while her
petition for political asylum is considered. Although Haitian Americans were
happy for the family, the boat episode in general has made their protests all
the more determined.

The INS denies that its laws and policies are racist, spokesman Russ Bergeron
said, and views such allegations as "extreme and unfair."

What gives Cuban refugees an advantage over others seeking refuge in the United
States is the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, which allows Cubans to apply for
permanent residency after one year--while other groups may face longer waiting
periods. Bergeron points out, however, that that is not INS policy, but a
federal law.

Much criticism of late has been aimed at the so-called "wet foot/dry foot"
immigration policy, allowing Cubans to remain in the United States if they
manage to reach land, while Haitians and others usually are returned to their
homelands regardless of whether they touch shore or are captured at sea.
Attorney General Janet Reno, at her regular Thursday news briefing, explained
the various policies: "There are different situations with respect to Cuba and
respect to Haiti," she said, "and the nature of the relationship of the two
governments is different."

But immigrant advocacy groups challenge the U.S. government's contention that
the former dictatorship of Haiti is now a democracy.

"Political oppression has many faces, one of which is communism," said Cheryl
Little, a lawyer with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center who pressed for the
Haitian family reunion. "Clearly, there is a long history of political
oppression in Haiti. Unfortunately, when we talked to INS in Washington when the
Haitians were a mile off shore, I was told there would be no INS interviews
because Haiti has a democracy now. But the parliament was dissolved last year,
there's no rule of law to speak of, no judiciary to speak of. The Haitian
national police are more known for corruption and violating people's civil
rights than protecting law and order."

Miami's Haitian leaders are quick to say that this is not a case of wanting the
rights of Cuban immigrants reduced; rather, they simply want their own rights
increased to the same level. In fact, they say they have a lot to learn from the
Cuban example in this country.

The Cuban American community, which numbers about 800,000 in south Florida, has
been here longer, is better organized and more politically influential, with a
large number of elected officials, including the mayor of Miami Dade County and
two members of Congress from Miami. The Haitian American community, which began
its major influx here about two decades later, in the late 1970s, has grown to
about 250,000 in the greater Miami area. But its political gains have been slow
in coming.

Bishop Thomas Wenski, the auxiliary bishop of Miami, pastored the largest
Haitian Roman Catholic church in the area for many years and keeps close ties
with the community he calls "hard-working and upwardly mobile.

"People I met in 1980 and '81, when their pants were still wet because they
waded ashore, by the end of the '80s, they were homeowners," said Wenski, who is
on the board of Little's agency. "And now, at the beginning of the new
millennium, their kids are going off to universities."

Rep. Carrie P. Meek (D-Fla.), an African American who has championed the Haitian
cause since 1979, has not been reticent about alleging that Haitians have been
discriminated against because of their race. At a recent Haitian rally, the Rev.
James Phillips, president of People United to Lead the Struggle for Equality
(PULSE), encouraged political leaders to "fight with the same passion for all
refugees and not just the ones who look like you."

But both Meek and Phillips agree that this turbulent time has been a good
learning experience for Haitian Americans and their supporters--and that the
community's days of feeling ignored may be coming to an end.

"They are very, very civic-conscious, and they have a sense of politics," Meek
said. "They know if they want the clout, they will have to get out and vote in
great numbers. They are going to have to be reckoned with."

After protests against the treatment of Haitian immigrants, such as that staged
by young Haitian Americans in Miami, two children have been allowed to join
their mother in Florida. Haitian Americans rallied in Miami on Jan. 3 against
U.S. immigration policy after hundreds of Haitians were taken from a ship that
ran aground off the Miami coast and sent back to Haiti.


LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              33 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 28, 2000, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Law & Order: Department of Justice; Tightening Borders to Thwart Terrorism

David A. Vise; Lorraine Adams, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 766 words



The federal government may have been closed Wednesday because of snow, but the
House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and claims was open for business,
holding a hearing on terrorism.

Subcommittee Chairman Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) is a strong believer in tighter
border controls. Almost all the witnesses he gathered agreed with him, decrying
Canada's lax immigration laws. They pointed to the sanctuary enjoyed the last
six years by Ahmed Ressam, Bouabide Chamchi and other Algerians arrested around
New Year's for their roles in an alleged terrorist plot.

There were seven witnesses, among them a variety of terrorism experts that
included Martin Collacott, retired Canadian ambassador to the United States;
David Harris, former chief of strategic planning for the Canadian Security
Intelligence Service; and Philip C. Wilcox, former U.S. ambassador to Canada.

Ressam and Mokhtar Haouari both arrived in Canada via France around 1993, said
John Thompson, director of the Mackenzie Institute, a think tank in Toronto.
They were denied refugee status, and Canada's immigration system lost track of
them. They became part of Canada's estimated deportation backlog of 5,200 cases.
Ressam was arrested for his role in an auto theft ring this summer, but even
then he was released. Witnesses said a binational commission is needed to study
changing the Canadian system.

On the American side of the equation, several witnesses called for the quicker
setup of a computerized tracking system for the northern border. The high-tech
system--which was authorized in the 1996 immigration act and is known as Section
110--has been delayed until 2001. Politicians from border states say it would
strangle trade and tourism by creating delays at border crossings. After the
hearing, Smith declined to say whether he would fight to speed up implementation
of Section 110.

Former ambassador Wilcox urged caution. "How serious a threat to America is
international terrorism?" he asked. "International terrorism against all
nationalities appeared to peak in 1987 when there were 666 such attacks, but
declined more or less evenly to 273 in 1998. The number of U.S. citizens who are
killed or wounded by international terrorists is another measure of the threat.
Since 1990, the average number has been about 10 a year."

While the United States must be vigilant, Wilcox said, Americans must also be
aware that that number is comparatively small. For example, 13 children a day,
he said, are killed by gunfire in the United States.


GUN CONTROL: Attorney General Janet Reno usually keeps her cool during her
weekly briefing with reporters, but on gun control last week, she turned testy.

Asked repeatedly if the Clinton administration's proposed $ 280 million boost in
funding to fight gun crime was in response to the National Rifle Association's
blockage last year of gun control legislation, Reno preferred to leave the NRA
out of it. (The White House plan would add 500 new Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
agents and inspectors, 1,000 state and local gun prosecutors, and more than 100
federal gun prosecutors.)

Last year, an intensive NRA lobbying push succeeded in convincing lawmakers
there was no need for new laws because existing federal statutes were not being
enforced.

As the questions about the NRA lobbying campaign kept coming at her, Reno
finally said, "If you want to say that it's in response to the NRA, I don't care
what it's in response to. . . . I want to try to do everything I can . . . that
will have a lasting impact to do something about violence in this country."


MOVING UP: FBI Director Louis J. Freeh made a pair of key appointments this week
at the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He named 20-year veteran David E. Alba
head of the recently formed Investigative Services Division at FBI headquarters.
Alba, a native of Mexico, was in charge of the FBI's El Paso division.

Freeh appointed William F. Welby head of the Administrative Services Division at
headquarters. Welby, a Boston native, joined the FBI in 1978. Most recently he
was an inspector in the division.


THE INDEPENDENTS: Kenneth W. Starr's successor, independent counsel Robert W.
Ray, has promoted J. Keith Ausbrook to senior counsel and appointed Brian Stuart
Chilton and Julie F. Thomas associate independent counsels.

The appointments coincide with the departures of deputy independent counsels
Edward J. Page and Michael W. Emmick. Page joined the Tampa office of the law
firm Carlton Fields. Emmick returned to the U.S. attorney's office in Los
Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2000

CORRECTION:  The Law & Order column on Friday's Federal Page incorrectly
reported that retired Canadian envoy Martin Collacott was ambassador to the
United States. The article also incorrectly identified Philip C. Wilcox, the
former coordinator for counterterrorism at the State Department.


                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              34 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 2, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Citizenship for Elian?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A20; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 558 words


Judy Mann complained about the legislative attempt to "thrust" U.S. citizenship
on Elian Gonzalez to take the case out of the INS's jurisdiction [Jan. 26]. The
INS, charged with enforcing immigration laws, made its decision based on the
fact that Elian does not have U.S. citizenship or a green card and is too young
to apply for political asylum on his own behalf--hence, he must return to Cuba.

Taking the legal technicalities out of the mix provides an opportunity to
consider what is in Elian's best interest. Thrusting U.S. citizenship on someone
does not necessarily sound "arrogant" to me. Perhaps it is because of The Post's
story on the Chinese who paid as much as $ 50,000 to sneak in cargo--risking
their lives--just for an opportunity to set their feet in this country. Perhaps
it is also because I waited many years to have my immigration request processed
from Korea, and another five years to be eligible for the citizenship test. I
would have been thrilled to have U.S. citizenship thrusted on me.

Is the United States an ideal place for a child to grow up? Certainly not. But
if he stays here, Elian would grow up to enjoy much greater freedom and
opportunity than he would ever dream of in Cuba.

SUE BAK SHEEHAN

Vienna


To paraphrase Madame Jeanne Roland de la Platiere, a political activist during
the French Revolution, shortly before her execution in 1793: Oh, liberty, what
crimes are committed in thy name.

De la Platiere's complaint lends itself to the Elian Gonzalez case, in which
Sen. Connie Mack and Cuban-born Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart are intervening in a
familial situation by trying to bestow citizenship on a 6-year-old boy. The
election of citizenship and allegiance to a nation require mature reflection by
the individual concerned. A 6-year-old hardly qualifies.

Self-serving politicians are grasping this opportunity for the limelight, even
if it involves the destruction of a boy's emotional well-being and the anguish
of his father. Presidential candidates cannot bring themselves to call for the
return of Elian to his father and country because it might cost them votes.

This nation has failed in its attempts to overthrow Castro. Elian Gonzalez is
the latest victim of that frustration.


ROLAND F. TIFFT

Bonita Springs, Fla.


Charles Krauthammer's Jan. 28 op-ed column suggested that to honor Elian's
mother, the child should be allowed to remain in the United States.

Elian's mother risked her child's safety by taking him on a dangerous journey in
an unsafe boat motivated more by passion than politics. She illegally left Cuba
with her boyfriend, who had a criminal record, and consequently lost her life in
the process. We don't know if her intent was to flee communism.

If Elian were an American boy illegally taken by his divorced mother to another
country and she had died in the process, we would have insisted that the boy be
returned to his father in the United States. To attempt to make Elian a citizen
of the United States defies precedent and puts the United States in conflict
with international law. The representatives of the National Council of Churches
investigated and determined that Juan Gonzalez loves his son and wants him back.
Elian should be returned to his father as the INS has ruled.

ROBERT ANGUS

Silver Spring




LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              35 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 9, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

A Dangerous Precedent for Abuse Victims

Judy Mann

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C15; JUDY MANN

LENGTH: 986 words


The decision by the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals to deny asylum to a
Guatemalan woman fleeing an abusive husband has touched off a flurry of legal
activity on her behalf and brought to light similar cases in which domestic
violence victims have won asylum.

These cases highlight the inconsistent decision making running through cases
involving gender persecution and domestic violence. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service's 1995 guidelines on gender are being followed in some
cases, yet not in others. Before those guidelines were issued, women fleeing
persecution based on gender had little hope of asylum. Their situation was
treated as a personal problem. The guidelines recognized that women face
persecution in some countries because they are part of a social group that is
persecuted and the government doesn't protect them.

The first breakthrough came shortly after the guidelines were issued, when the
board granted asylum to a Haitian woman who had been gang-raped because of her
political activities. The next breakthrough occurred when the board granted
asylum to a young woman who faced genital mutilation in her homeland.

"Immigration judges and asylum officers began to grant asylum in these cases of
gender-based persecution," says Deborah Anker, head of the Immigration and
Refugee Clinic at Harvard Law School, which helped the INS develop the
guidelines. "It began to be seen as a legitimate basis for refugee protection."

But along with progress came reversals, one of which involves the Guatemalan
woman, known as "RA" in the litigation process, who was severely abused by her
husband for years but was denied asylum by the Board of Immigration Appeals.
Advocates were deeply concerned that domestic violence was being dismissed as a
basis for asylum. The clinic recently co-authored a brief that has been signed
by 51 scholars and law professors in 49 organizations asking Attorney General
Janet Reno to reverse the decision.

In fact, there had been cases awarding asylum to women who had been victims of
domestic abuse, but those decisions weren't broadly publicized.

"In the immigration field, some of the most promising developments happen at the
lower level, or the board will issue a decision but choose not to publish it as
precedent," so lawyers don't find out about them, Anker says. Now three other
cases, all involving domestic violence, have surfaced in which refugees have
gotten asylum. This should certainly bolster RA's case.

In August, the board granted asylum to a Moroccan girl who was abused by her
father, a Muslim with ultraconservative views about the role of women. The Board
of Immigration Appeals overturned an immigration judge's denial of asylum and
found she had suffered persistent physical assaults, isolation and deprivation
of educational opportunities because her beliefs concerning the role of women
were different from her father's. The board cited the gender guidelines in its
decision, but gave considerable weight to the claim that the girl was fleeing
religious persecution.

"The facts are so similar in terms of basic principles to what happened with
RA," Anker says. "It seems the board feels safe when there is this religion hook
to hang it on . . . but the case is about gender. In the RA decision, the board
didn't really explain their gender analysis at all."

In November, the INS granted asylum to a Bangladeshi woman who had suffered
severe psychological and physical abuse by her husband for almost 15 years. She
was unable to obtain state protection because he was politically influential and
authorities tolerate domestic violence. The immigration judge had found the
woman had been persecuted based on her membership in a social group, which is
grounds for asylum.

The third case involves Juan, a Honduran child punished in dreadful ways by a
sadistic stepfather. When he was 14, he took off for the United States with an
older friend. Juan was apprehended by the Border Patrol in south Texas. Steven
Lang, of Probar, a project sponsored by the American Bar Association, the Texas
state bar and the American Immigration Lawyers Association, says that Juan is
part of a group of young refugees who are "orphaned, abandoned or fleeing
extremely abusive environments. These are kids either coming from the street or,
if they had not left the country, would have ended up on the streets."

The U.S. Department of State estimated there were 8,000 street children in
Honduras in 1998. They join gangs for protection and face killing by death
squads, says Lang. In Juan's case, "we made the argument we'd used a couple of
times before with success, but only with Honduran kids. That was, if Juan were
deported, we cannot expect him to go back to the same abusive environment from
whence he came. There being no adequate social services in Honduras, Juan would
have no other option but to turn to the streets. Using documents we've submitted
before, we were able to document that in Honduras there is a pattern and
practice of persecution by the government against street children. Our claim is
he has a well-founded fear of persecution. . . . The judge granted asylum." The
Board of Immigration Appeals upheld the judge.

What helped Juan was that he was a member of a well-defined social group that
faces well-documented persecution. Abused women are still struggling to
establish that they are part of a social group persecuted because of gender, and
that their governments either condone it or fail to protect them. Meanwhile,
judges are issuing inconsistent decisions, and what's worse, so is the Board of
Immigration Appeals.

The net result is that the INS is failing to develop a body of case law that
could guide refugees and their lawyers on whether they have a chance of winning
asylum. Right now it's a crapshoot. People whose lives are hanging in the
balance deserve better than that.


LOAD-DATE: February 09, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              36 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 18, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

INS Officer Charged With Spying for Cuba

David A. Vise , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 502 words


The FBI arrested a senior Miami immigration official last night and charged him
with spying for Cuba, bureau officials said.

Mariano Faget, a 54-year-old supervisor with "secret" security clearance at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, had access to classified and sensitive
files detailing confidential law enforcement sources and Cuban defectors.
Through a combination of technical and physical surveillance, the FBI said,
"Operation False Blue" uncovered Faget, who was born in Havana, making
unauthorized contacts with Cuban intelligence officers in Miami and other
cities.

"This guy had some significant access to sensitive law enforcement information
that would have been shared with INS," a person familiar with the probe said.
"The real importance of it from a counterintelligence standpoint is that the
Cubans are one of the most effective intelligence services in the world, and to
interrupt one of their operations is significant. The Cubans are very, very
good. In this instance, the FBI in Miami was quite successful."

Faget is being held in the federal detention center in Miami and is scheduled to
appear in U.S. District Court in Miami this afternoon. He violated the Espionage
Act, formally known as the Communicating National Defense Information to an
Unauthorized Person provision, and made false statements, the FBI said.

The announcement of Faget's arrest was made by Hector M. Pesquera, special agent
in charge of the Miami office of the FBI, and Robert Wallis, district director
of the INS in Miami. They worked closely on the case with Alan Hazen, special
agent in charge of the FBI's Office of Inspector General in Miami.

Jose Basulto, president of the Cuban exile group Brothers to the Rescue, said he
believed there were many Cuban spies in the United States.

"The U.S. should be very embarrassed by this finding," Basulto told the
Associated Press. "Until the cancer is removed, which is Castro, this will
continue."

The United States severed diplomatic relations with Cuba in 1961, roughly two
years after Fidel Castro took charge of the country. Travel to and from the
country is limited by the United States, but increasingly, cultural, academic
and athletic exchanges have been permitted.

Late Thursday, FBI officials searched Faget's home, according to the Miami
Herald. The two-story house is in a cul-de-sac, and Miami-Dade police cordoned
off the area.

According to a 1996 report in El Nuevo Herald, Faget, who will be placed on
administrative leave, had been working for the INS for 34 years. Faget waited in
line with his father in 1960 when they sought political asylum, according to the
article. He became a U.S. citizen on Nov. 22, 1963, the day that President John
F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas.

"There was even a person who got up and said they were going to change their
name to John," Faget was quoted as saying. "I laughed because I thought it was a
joke to see how much we loved this country and its president."


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              37 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 19, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

FBI Sting at INS Found an Unlikely Cuban Spy Suspect

David A. Vise , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 872 words


Eight days ago, Mariano Faget, an immigration supervisor in Miami born in
Havana, was summoned to a meeting with senior U.S. officials who sought his
advice on the imminent defection to the United States of a high-ranking Cuban
intelligence officer and then asked him to prepare asylum papers.

Twelve minutes after the meeting, according to documents filed in federal court,
Faget, 54, returned to his office, grabbed his personal cell phone and called a
New York businessman, telling him that "one of the ones working with the
Americans" is "a person we both know." What Faget didn't know was that he was
the target of a sting, code-named "Operation False Blue," and that FBI agents
were listening to him as he tipped the New Yorker, who was about to meet with a
Cuban intelligence officer.

Yesterday, Faget's 34-year career as a U.S. immigration official with access to
classified information about law enforcement sources and Cuban defectors ended,
as his alleged life as a Cuban spy was revealed in court papers filed by the
U.S. attorney's office in Miami. Through technical and physical surveillance and
videotaping, the FBI said it had watched Faget, now in custody, making
unauthorized contacts with Cuban intelligence officers in Miami, with an
official in the Cuban diplomatic mission in Washington and with the New York
businessman.

Faget, who carried a "secret" security clearance and was responsible for
supervising naturalization decisions and requests for political asylum in Miami,
is the first Immigration and Naturalization Service official to be charged with
spying.

"His reputation has always been excellent," one stunned former intelligence
officer said. "He was the last person in the world you would have thought of as
being part of something like this. He was thoroughly professional and from all
appearances was 100 percent pro-American."

FBI assistant special agent Paul Mallett said during a news conference in Miami
that Faget's alleged espionage could compromise national security and that
additional arrests were expected in the continuing probe, which began about a
year ago.

The case "speaks to the heart of public trust," said Bob Wallis, INS director
for the district that includes Miami, adding that Faget was arrested soon after
the sting because he was nearing retirement and appeared to be on his way to
work more closely with Cuban agents.

"The real importance of it from a counterintelligence standpoint is that the
Cubans are one of the most effective intelligence services in the world, and to
interrupt one of their operations is significant," a U.S. official familiar with
the case said. "The Cubans are very, very good."

The Cuban Interests Section in Washington released a statement yesterday calling
the claims about Faget "a colossal slander." "The Cuban Interests Section
categorically denies this accusation," the statement said.

The probe, dubbed "False Blue" as a play on the patriotic expression "True
Blue," is likely to further strain U.S.-Cuban relations at a time when they have
been tested by the controversy surrounding the case of 6-year-old Elian
Gonzalez.

At a preliminary hearing before U.S. District Judge Stephen T. Brown in Miami
yesterday, Faget appeared puffy and pale, wearing tan prison-issue scrubs,
plastic slippers with socks, leg irons and handcuffs. He entered no plea as more
than 40 of Faget's family and friends waited in the courtyard to post property
as bond and to testify to his character.

But the judge ruled that Faget, who began work as a clerk and rose to a
high-level immigration official with an $ 82,107 salary, should be held, pending
a bond hearing next week.

The FBI has recommended to the State Department that a contact of Faget's at the
Cuban diplomatic mission be asked to leave the country, a Clinton administration
official told the Associated Press, speaking on the condition of anonymity. A
spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section declined to comment.

Federal officials did not reveal the name of the New York businessman or what
secrets Faget had allegedly divulged. But they suggested that Faget might have
been rewarded for his efforts by the New Yorker, who made him vice president and
secretary of a corporation apparently set up to do business with Cuba.

Faget's father, Mariano Faget Sr., was described by the Miami Herald as a hunter
and torturer of suspected communists for the government of Fulgencio Batista,
who was overthrown by current Cuban President Fidel Castro. In "Diary of the
Cuban Revolution," writer Carlos Franqui said Faget Sr. "had worked with the FBI
in the United States."

The United States broke off diplomatic relations with Cuba in 1961, about two
years after Castro's communist regime rose to power.

The Fagets sought political asylum in the United States in 1960, and the son
became a U.S. citizen on Nov. 22, 1963, according to El Neuvo Herald.

If convicted, he faces the possibility of 15 years in prison, hundreds of
thousands of dollars in fines and the potential loss of his federal retirement
pay.

Staff writers Lorraine Adams and Karen DeYoung in Washington and special
correspondent Catharine Skipp in Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              38 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 20, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S. Orders Cuban Diplomat's Expulsion in Spy Case

Stephen Barr , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 462 words



The State Department ordered the expulsion yesterday of a Cuban diplomat linked
to a U.S. immigration official arrested in Miami on espionage charges.

The Cuban, whose name was not released, "acted in a manner incompatible with his
diplomatic status," State Department spokesman James Foley said. Foley said the
diplomat was expected to leave within a few days, but the Cuban government
rejected the order to withdraw the diplomat, calling it a "low and vengeful
blow."

The department "acted on evidence presented to us by the FBI," Foley said,
indicating that the Cuban diplomat apparently had acted as a Washington contact
of Mariano Faget, the immigration official arrested Thursday night in an FBI
sting operation.

Faget, a 34-year veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, had
access to classified information about law enforcement sources and Cuban
defectors as part of his job, authorities said.

Officials suspect that Faget, who was born in Havana, may have passed on
information about defectors as a Cuban spy.

Faget, who carried a secret clearance and supervised naturalization decisions
and requests for political asylum in Miami, is the first INS official to be
charged with spying.

The FBI said it had watched Faget make unauthorized contacts with Cuban
intelligence officers in Miami, with an official in the Cuban diplomatic mission
in Washington and with a New York businessman with ties to Cuban intelligence.

Yesterday afternoon, the State Department summoned Felix Wilson, the acting head
of the Cuban mission, and formally requested that he "withdraw a member who has
diplomatic immunity," Foley said.

At the meeting, officials specified which diplomat they wanted to leave the
country.

Cuban President Fidel Castro was at a rally yesterday in eastern Cuba as a
government statement was read calling the U.S. expulsion order a "desperate and
spectacular maneuver."

"The Cuban government will not withdraw any officer" from the Cuban Interests
Section in Washington, Reuters quoted the statement as saying. Instead, "this
compatriot, so vilely accused, [should] remain in United States territory to
give testimony and demonstrate the total falseness of this accusation, whatever
the consequences may be."

The demonstration, one of dozens of protests in Cuba since 6-year-old Elian
Gonzalez was turned over to Miami relatives after surviving a shipwreck, was
staged to demand Elian's return. Havana has linked the Faget allegations and the
plight of Elian.

State Department officials said they believe yesterday's expulsion to be the
first since 1996.

That year, Cuba expelled Robin Meyer, a diplomat in the U.S. mission in Havana.
In retaliation, the United States then asked a Cuban to leave.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              39 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 20, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

,From news services

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 474 words



INS Probes Visa Fraud at Air Base


SAN ANTONIO--Immigration authorities have dropped deportation proceedings
against 23 Indian computer programmers arrested last month during a raid at
Randolph Air Force Base. Instead, authorities will investigate the U.S.
companies that hired them.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service will try to determine whether two
Houston companies--Softech Consulting Inc. and Frontier Consulting Inc.--skirted
federal rules requiring Labor Department approval to move the Indian nationals
to the air base. The Jan. 20 raid followed a six-month INS probe into possible
visa fraud.

INS district director Kenneth Pasquarell said the companies may have been
involved in a type of visa fraud called "body shopping," in which firms say they
will place highly skilled foreign workers in certain jobs and then send them to
other cities. Phone calls to the companies yesterday were not returned.


Gun Dealers Protest Citibank Action


DENVER--Gun owners and firearms dealers have accused Citibank of discrimination
because of the financial company's policy that limits service to companies that
make or sell guns.

"This is basic discrimination--political correctness run amok," said James W.
Winchester, a former assistant U.S. attorney who is now vice president of the
Colorado State Shooting Association. "It says that we are not good citizens
because we are associated with firearms."

Earlier this month, Citibank wrote to the Nevada Pistol Academy that its
checking account was being canceled "due to Citibank not maintaining accounts
for businesses that deal in weapons."


* LITTLETON, Colo.--With Pink Floyd's "Wish You Were Here" resonating through
the church, 2,000 people mourned Columbine High School sweethearts Stephanie
Hart Grizzell, 16, and Nick Kunselman, 15, who were shot at a Subway sandwich
shop several blocks from Columbine High School.


* DENVER--Louise Davis, 70, was sentenced to 12 years in prison for stealing a $
57,000 diamond ring from a Neiman Marcus store in August. Authorities said she
had 10 prior felony convictions.


* ALBUQUERQUE--The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has created a new program
to provide Internet access to American Indian tribes in New Mexico, Arizona,
Colorado and Utah.


* PULLMAN, Wash.--Firefighters rescued a man who was bound with duct tape and
barricaded inside a Sigma Nu fraternity guest room during a blaze tentatively
attributed to a candle. No one was injured in the fire at Washington State
University, but the school said it was investigating the taping incident.


* GILROY, Calif.--A car moving at least 60 mph crossed the center line of a
highway in Central California and smashed head-on into a pickup truck, killing
all seven people in the vehicles, the state Highway Patrol said.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              40 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 23, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 492 words


House Chairman Criticizes INS on Criminal Cases


Nearly 12,000 of the 35,000 immigrants with criminal records released into U.S.
communities over the past five years went on to commit new crimes, an outraged
House subcommittee chairman said yesterday.

Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), who chairs the House Appropriations subcommittee on
immigration operations, demanded to know why the Immigration and Naturalization
Service had freed 35,318 criminal aliens rather than deport them.

"I just find this another absolutely catastrophic failure of this agency,"
Rogers chastised INS Commissioner Doris N. Meissner during a sharp round of
questioning.

Meissner noted that many of the releases were not at the INS's
discretion--ordered either because the aliens had won their deportation cases or
because bond was allowed by a judge--and that in other cases the INS released
criminal aliens viewed as posing no flight risk or danger.

And included in the total are aliens who were deported but slipped back into the
country, INS officials said.


Administration Will Grant Iraqi Opposition $ 260,000


The Clinton administration has agreed to give its first direct grant, worth
about $ 260,000, to the controversial Iraqi National Congress, U.S. officials
said yesterday.

Assistant Secretary of State Edward Walker said the money would help the
opposition group "reach out to its constituents" and improve its organization.


China to Release Information About Political Prisoners


China agreed this week to hand over information about political prisoners to a
U.S. human rights group, heading off a confrontation with lawmakers before
Senate hearings on a landmark trade pact with Beijing, the group and lawmakers
said.

China's Ministry of Justice released details about eight prisoners to the San
Francisco-based Dui Hua Foundation on Tuesday and said more information would
follow, after Senate Finance Committee Chairman William V. Roth Jr. (R-Del.) and
other lawmakers wrote letters prodding Beijing to cooperate.


McCain Will Oppose Nominee For Federal Election Panel


Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said he will oppose Senate confirmation of Republican
Bradley Smith's nomination to the Federal Election Commission because of Smith's
opposition to federal campaign fund-raising controls.

Smith is strongly backed by Senate GOP leaders, and McCain's opposition
underscored the former presidential candidate's continued independence on
campaign reform. McCain said he would do everything he can to defeat Smith on
grounds that he is "in direct contravention" of a Supreme Court ruling upholding
existing fund-raising rules. Several Democrats have also said they will vote
against Smith.

McCain's comments came as he met with Sen. Russell D. Feingold (D-Wis.) to plan
strategy for campaign finance legislation this year. Both said they cannot go
along with proposals that would further water down their bill.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              41 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 28, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Challenge to Welfare Reform Act Rejected ; Supreme Court Denies Appeal Focused
on Loss of Benefits to Legal Immigrants

Joan Biskupic , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 567 words


The Supreme Court yesterday rejected a challenge to the 1996 Welfare Reform Act
that eliminated food stamps and other benefits for legal immigrants, spurning
arguments that the federal government breached the Constitution and endangered
the lives of some of the nation's neediest people.

The justices, without comment, denied an appeal by the city of Chicago and a
group of immigrants focused on a provision of the historic welfare law that
abolished food stamps, disability benefits and other federal assistance for
immigrants who were living legally in the United States but were not citizens.

Congress, seeking to reduce the welfare rolls nationwide, said the new rules
would foster self-reliance and remove an incentive for illegal aliens to cross
the border to obtain benefits. But municipalities and advocates for the poor
contend the provision has left numerous families hungry and vulnerable, imposing
new financial burdens on states and cities.

According to Department of Agriculture figures submitted in the case, for
example, 570,000 needy permanent residents were ineligible for food stamps last
year simply because they were not citizens.

Chicago officials argued that the policy favoring citizens violated the
constitutional guarantee of equal protection under the law. Their case marked
one of several challenges to the legal underpinnings of the far-reaching welfare
law, which ended the six-decade federal guarantee of cash assistance for the
poor, established new work requirements and gave states broader authority--and
responsibility--for providing public assistance.

Lower courts ruled against Chicago, saying the federal government needed to show
only that its policy against noncitizens was rationally related to legitimate
public interests. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit said the new
laws could be justified by the government's interest in discouraging foreigners
from immigrating; promoting self-sufficiency for those who are here; reducing
the cost of benefits programs; and encouraging people to become citizens.

Linton Childs, a Chicago lawyer who wrote a "friend of the court" brief for the
Center for Law and Social Policy, said the benefits "were an essential lifeline
enabling family members to obtain the food necessary to lead an active,
productive life" in America. Yesterday, Childs insisted the consequences of the
cutbacks "are severe and the effects are continuing."

The appeals court acknowledged that the Supreme Court has in the past struck
down state laws that discriminated against immigrants in the provision of human
services. But it emphasized that the federal government has more leeway in this
area because Congress has broad authority to decide who may immigrate.

Chicago officials had urged the 7th Circuit to rely on a 1971 high court
decision that a state's denial of welfare benefits for immigrants based on a
residency requirement violates equal protection guarantees.

But the appeals court noted that even in that ruling, the Supreme Court said
federal power is broader than state authority on immigration issues. The 7th
Circuit used as its touchstone a unanimous 1976 high court decision, Mathews v.
Diaz, upholding a Medicare regulation that withheld certain medical benefits
from immigrants who had not lived in the country for at least five years.

Yesterday's case was Chicago v. Shalala.


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              42 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 29, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Elian's Kin Defy Demand; Boy Could Be Returned to Father in Cuba in Days

Sue Anne Pressley; Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 28


Miami relatives of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez refused today to meet a key demand
of federal immigration authorities, increasing the likelihood that the boy could
be sent back to his father in Cuba, possibly within the next 48 hours.

After meeting with Immigration and Naturalization Service officials here this
morning, the relatives announced that they have not signed an agreement to
surrender the boy should they lose their next court battle. In a letter late
Monday, INS officials warned that they will terminate Elian's temporary
parole--or permission to remain in the United States--at 9 a.m. Thursday if the
relatives do not give their written assurances on this point.

"I don't know what else they want from the Lazaro Gonzalez family," family
spokesman Armando Gutierrez said after the meeting. "They just want us to sign a
blank statement, which is not the American way."

The stalemate developed after attorneys for the Miami relatives met one
condition of a take-it-or-leave-it deal offered by federal officials when they
filed Monday for an expedited appeal in the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
in Atlanta. They are challenging a ruling by U.S. District Judge K. Michael
Moore in Miami, who last week upheld the INS decision to reunite Elian with his
father in Cuba. Later Monday, the appeals court agreed to hear oral arguments
May 8.

But the family has balked over the surrender demand. "They [INS] said, 'If you
don't sign the paper, we remove Elian,' " Gutierrez said. "They don't tell us
how."

The federal government's ultimatum apparently is intended to prevent the case
from stringing out for many more months in the courts. Since shortly after the
boy was rescued at sea four months ago, INS officials, backed by the Clinton
administration, Cuban President Fidel Castro and now a federal judge, have
agreed Elian should be returned to his father.

At a news conference this afternoon, INS spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar called the
INS demand a "routine" agreement the agency requires in any disputed immigration
case. "From the beginning, we have been mindful that at the center of this case
is a 6-year-old boy who has been through a terrible ordeal," she said,
reiterating that the INS will continue "to avoid additional trauma" to the
child.

Normally, when temporary parole is revoked, circumstances are somewhat
different. There is usually notice of a week or more. The person gets
instructions when and where to appear at a certain place and to be prepared to
travel. In this case, notice would be from a few days to a week. "It won't be 30
days," a U.S. government official said. INS and Justice hope that Elian wouldn't
have to spend time in any third-party custody between "Lazaro's house to his
father's side," the official said.

Lazaro Gonzalez will meet with INS officials Wednesday afternoon to discuss the
demand. Standing in the yard of his Little Havana home today, Gonzalez seemed
upset as his attorneys filled him in on the morning meeting. Elian, who has been
pulled from the private Lincoln Marti School because of security concerns,
played on a sliding board nearby.

If Lazaro Gonzalez doesn't agree to the demand, INS officials will brief him at
the Wednesday meeting on procedures for transfering Elian.

"They think we're bluffing, but we're not," said Carole Florman, a Justice
Department spokeswoman.

The INS, with help from Miami police, has kept Elian under surveillance for some
time now, the government official said, always knowing where he is. If official
action is needed to bring the boy to his father, the officials said, it likely
would be done by U.S. marshals.

Tensions continued to simmer today in Miami's large Cuban exile community. About
50 supporters of the Miami relatives waited outside the Gonzalez home most of
the day, singing, praying and waving signs that said in English, "Clinton, you
negotiated with the devil," and in Spanish, "I only want to live in freedom."

"Janet Reno shouldn't provoke this family and hold a gun to its head," said
Jorge Mas, chairman of the Cuban American National Foundation, the nation's
largest Cuban exile group.

Mas said the community will respect the family's decision on whether to
surrender Elian. "If this process is not short-circuited," he said, "I think
this community will act as a united community and as a mature community."

Meanwhile today on ABC's "Good Morning, America," correspondent Diane Sawyer
reported that Elian had said off camera in his interview with her that he does
not want to go back to Cuba. "But in this inflamed climate on this inflamed
subject, we thought it best not to broadcast the exact words of a 6-year-old,"
she said.

Later, Greg Craig, the attorney for Elian's father, chided Sawyer for not
seeking the father's permission to interview the boy.

"I would be prepared to do anything to ease this transition," said Craig,
"because I recognize exactly how difficult and sensitive it's going to be. But
there's got to be good faith on the other side. They've got to be prepared to
say to us: 'We're going to give Elian back to his father, now let's talk about
the way in which it happens.' "


Staff writer Lorraine Adams in Washington and special correspondent Catharine
Skipp in Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              43 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 30, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

INS, Elian's Kin Fail to Reach Accord on Change in Custody; Castro Says Father
Ready to Come to U.S. to Retrieve Boy

Sue Anne Pressley; Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 29


The Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez failed to reach an agreement tonight with
immigration officials over possible future surrender of the child, receiving a
24-hour extension in their deadline for meeting the federal government's
demands. Meanwhile, Cuban President Fidel Castro announced that the boy's father
is ready for the first time to travel to the United States to reclaim custody.

After more than four hours of negotiations, Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials said they would extend the deadline for further action on the
case until Friday, in order to meet with the family again Thursday. INS
officials had threatened to revoke Elian's temporary parole, or permission to
stay in the United States, at 9 a.m. Thursday if the Miami relatives did not
provide written assurances that they would give up the boy should they lose
their next court battle.

"The lawyers [for the Miami family] seemed to think there was reason to continue
the discussion," a government official said tonight.

Castro's announcement, delivered on live state television in Cuba, apparently
did not play a role in the negotiations, as the parties were not aware of the
development, the official said.

Throughout the four-month international custody dispute, Elian's father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, has said he would not come here unless he was certain he would
be bringing Elian home. Elian was one of three survivors of a shipwreck in which
his mother and 10 others drowned as they were attempting to flee Cuba for the
United States.

Castro said tonight that the father is ready to travel at a moment's notice to
await the appeals process, accompanied by his wife and 6-month-old son, both
sets of grandparents, Elian's first-grade and kindergarten teachers, a dozen
members of his first-grade class, his pediatrician, and a team of psychologists
and psychiatrists.

Castro said the group would help ease Elian's "readaptation" to his former life
in Cuba. The group would stay with a Cuban diplomat in Washington and would not
come to South Florida.

The father's attorney, Gregory Craig, said tonight that "Juan Miguel Gonzalez is
prepared to come and spend as much time as required if he has custody of Elian.
He recognizes he needs a support group and would bring his family and friends
for his own sake as well as for Elian's."

It was unclear how Elian would be transferred to his father from the home of the
Miami relatives who have kept him since he was rescued at sea in November.

The developments capped a frantic day here, as several thousand members of the
city's Cuban exile community staged a prayer vigil tonight in support of the boy
and his Miami family.

Tensions here have been mounting since last week, when a federal judge upheld
the INS decision to reunite Elian with his father. The Miami relatives are
appealing the ruling to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta; oral
arguments in the case have been set for May 8.

At a news conference today, Miami-Dade Mayor Alex Penelas and a group of other
local officials lashed out at the Clinton administration, saying that violence
could erupt if federal officials continue "provoking" the Cuban exile community
by threatening to take the boy. Accompanied by more than 20 other local mayors
or their representatives, Penelas warned that he would hold President Clinton
and Attorney General Janet Reno responsible if violence broke out over the case.

"The federal government is provoking the community," Penelas said. "We do not
condone inappropriate behavior. But I have a responsibility to tell the federal
government when they've gone too far. And they've gone too far."

Penelas and the other mayors also said that local law enforcement officers would
not assist federal authorities in "repatriating the boy."

Clinton responded by urging the Miami relatives and the Cuban exile community to
abide by the law.

"I have done my best not to overly politicize this. And I don't think we
should," Clinton said. "There is a legal process here. We ought to let it play
out."


Special correspondent Catharine Skipp in Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              44 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    April 20, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Court Keeps Elian in U.S. for Now; Reno Determined To Reunite Boy, Father During
Appeal

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1514 words


A federal court yesterday gave the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez a
potentially significant legal victory when it ordered that the 6-year-old
shipwreck survivor must stay in the United States at least until next month,
when it hears their appeal of a government decision that would return him to
Cuba.

In ruling that the relatives had "presented a substantial case on the merits,"
the court left open the possibility that it might embrace their argument that a
child can apply for political asylum against his father's wishes. If the
government is forced to consider asylum, and then rejects it, subsequent appeals
could go on for weeks.

One official described government lawyers as "perplexed" by the ruling, and a
number of immigration law experts said they did not believe the relatives would
ultimately prevail in the appeal, scheduled for a May 11 hearing. Even as
jubilant Cuban Americans in Miami celebrated the victory, an attorney for the
relatives cautioned that "no one should make predictions on the ultimate outcome
based on this order."

But the decision clearly rattled the Justice Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which throughout the controversy have maintained that no
one has the legal right to speak for Elian except his sole surviving parent.

Attorney General Janet Reno, who received news of the order aboard Air Force One
while traveling with President Clinton to the Oklahoma City bombing
commemoration, said in a brief statement that the ruling had no bearing on her
"determination that the boy should be reunited with his father" in Washington
"as soon as possible."

The question of whether Elian leaves the country pending completion of the
appeal, she said, is unrelated to who has custody of him while he is in the
United States.

But with a series of government deadlines for the Miami relatives to relinquish
custody set and ignored, White House and Justice Department aides have grown
increasingly frustrated that Reno has allowed public expectations to grow
without taking action.

White House aides said that Clinton--who until now has adopted a hands-off
posture and deferred to Reno throughout the nearly five-month international
custody dispute--was to discuss the issue with her on the flight back from
Oklahoma last night.

A government official said that Reno remained "committed to move forward" with a
week-old order that Elian be removed from the home of his Miami great-uncle,
Lazaro Gonzalez. The official said Reno would sit down this morning "with
everyone involved, and see where we are legally and logistically on the ground"
in terms of law enforcement preparation to enter Lazaro Gonzalez's Little Havana
home and remove the boy, and that she "may give the green light" for removal as
soon as today.

In an angry statement issued through his attorney, the father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, said it is "unconscionable to wait one day longer," and called on Reno
to carry out the order, and her personal promises to him, immediately. The
father, said lawyer Gregory B. Craig, had come from Havana two weeks ago in
response to "the express representations of the U.S. government that it would
enforce the law and return his son to him."

Craig said the government would "bear responsibility" for a "deteriorated"
situation in Miami, where the government's own medical expert has said Elian is
in "imminent danger" of psychological harm. He said the father had already
committed himself to "stay in the United States" during the appeal, and "he
stands by that commitment."

The government had said it was waiting only for the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Atlanta to rule before enforcing the custody order issued by the INS
last Thursday. But despite Reno's stated determination to move ahead on custody,
yesterday's court ruling was a disappointment to the Justice Department in more
ways than one.

In describing the relatives' case as "substantial," it criticized the way the
government had handled it and its interpretation of both immigration law and its
own guidelines.

Repeating a complaint made by the relatives, the three-judge panel said that "it
bears repeating that the INS made this determination [that it did not even have
to consider an asylum petition] without having met with [Elian] or having any
evaluations done on his capacity."

The law at the heart of the original U.S. District Court ruling upholding the
INS refusal of asylum consideration says that "any alien . . . may apply for
asylum." District Court Judge K. Michael Moore said that "any" did not mean
"all," and that it is within INS discretion to decide which petitions to
consider. "At this time," the appeals court said yesterday, "we cannot say that
'any alien' excludes Plaintiff: given the plain language of the statute, he
might be entitled to apply personally for asylum."

The INS also had determined that children at the age of 6 are too young to apply
for asylum, especially when a child has a responsible parent to make decisions
for him.

One of the three asylum petitions Lazaro Gonzalez submitted for the boy was
signed at the bottom with the word "ELIAN" printed in a childish hand, something
that the INS had dismissed as irrelevant. But, the court said, "Not only does it
appear that Plaintiff might be entitled to apply personally for asylum, it
appears that he did so. According to the record, Plaintiff--although a young
child--has expressed a wish that he not be returned to Cuba. He personally
signed an application for asylum."

"We do not now suggest that the stated intentions of a six-year-old child are
dispositive or even entitled to substantial weight in deciding whether the child
ultimately receives a grant of asylum," the appeals court said. "Still, a
colorable argument exists that a school-age child's expressed wishes about where
he wants to live can trigger the requirement that Plaintiff's claim for asylum
be given full and fair consideration."

Although it cautioned that "no one should feel confident in predicting the
eventual result in this case," the court cited numerous INS guidelines that it
said "contemplate that a minor, under some circumstances, may seek asylum
against the expressed wishes of its parents," and noted that no age limitations
were given in those guidelines.

As for the two petitions signed by Lazaro Gonzalez himself, the court said,
"Lazaro Gonzalez . . . is no stranger" to Elian. "Lazaro's interests, to say the
least, are not obviously hostile to [Elian's] interests. So, for now, we remain
unconvinced that the asylum application submitted by Lazaro" on Elian's behalf
"necessarily was ineffectual under the law."

"The true legal merits of this case will be finally decided in the future," the
court concluded. "More briefing is expected. We intend to hear oral argument. We
need to think more and hard about this case for which no sure and clear answers
shine out today.

"Still, because of the arguments presented as well as the potential
inconsistencies of the INS's present position with the plain language of the
statute and with the INS's own earlier interpretations of the statute in INS
regulations and guidelines, and because of the equities in this case, we
conclude that Plaintiff is entitled to an injunction pending appeal."

Although it did not order them to do so, the court said "we encourage the
parties to avail themselves voluntarily of this Court's mediation services."


Staff writers John F. Harris and Sylvia Moreno contributed to this report.


The Boy's Journey

Nov. 22: Elian and 13 others leave Cuba for United States aboard 16-foot motor
boat.

Nov. 23: Boat capsizes.

Nov. 25: Two passengers come ashore. Elian found on inner tube near Fort
Lauderdale.

Nov. 26: Elian turned over to great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez.

Nov. 27: Juan Miguel Gonzalez demands son's return to Cuba.

Dec. 10: Lazaro Gonzalez apples for asylum for Elian.

Dec. 31: INS interviews Juan Miguel Gonzalez in Havana.

Jan. 5: INS Commissioner Doris N. Meissner decides Elian "belongs with his
father" and must be returned to Cuba by Jan. 14.

Jan. 7: Lazaro Gonzalez files petition for temporary custody in state court.

Jan. 12: Attorney General Janet Reno upholds father's right to custody.

Jan. 19: Lazaro Gonzalez files federal lawsuit to challenge INS ruling.

Jan. 28: U.S. lawyers seek dismissal of relatives' federal lawsuit.

March 21: U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore dismisses federal lawsuit, a
ruling appealed to federal appeals court in Atlanta.

April 6: Juan Miguel Gonzalez leaves Cuba for United States.

April 12: Reno meets with boy's relatives in Miami but returns without the boy.

April 13: Relatives defy the order to hand over Elian and obtain a court order
keeping him in the United States.

April 14: Justice asks federal court to order Elian's great-uncle to obey the
government order.

April 19: Appeals court orders that Elian be kept in the United States pending
his relatives' legal appeal.  SOURCE: Staff reports and wire services




LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IG

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              45 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                       May 5, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Till the Law Do Us Part; Immigrant Forced Out of U.S. on 1st Wedding Anniversary

Carol Morello, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1283 words


Apolinario and Joanna Sorto will long remember their first wedding anniversary
as the bittersweet day they kissed goodbye, not knowing when the law would allow
him to return to her side.

With the future so uncertain, their parting was wrenching.

They kept repeating how much they love each other, as their hands linked across
the velvet rope guiding passengers at Dulles International Airport to a Taca
Airlines flight to El Salvador, the country Apolinario, 21, left four years ago
before slipping illegally into the United States looking for a job.

His 19-year-old wife, who barely spoke a word of Spanish when she met the man
she would elope with after a three-month courtship, twiddled with the gold
heart-shaped locket Apolinario gave her as an anniversary present. His
photograph is tucked in one half, and the other half holds a simple message: "I
love you."

"You'd think that most people would recognize if you're married and separated
from your spouse, it's the hardest thing in the world," said a tearful Joanna
after Apolinario embraced her and then disappeared through the gate's door.

They expect it will be months, if not years, before they are reunited.

The newlyweds have been torn asunder by complex and tough immigration laws
affecting thousands of families across the country. Under the 1996 Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, Sorto is barred from
reentering the United States for as long as 10 years because he lived here
undocumented for more than 12 months.

Immigration lawyers say this kind of case underscores the need to change the
lengthy ban and revive a law allowing immigrants to apply for changes in their
immigration status while waiting in the United States, instead of in their
native countries.

That's how it used to work under a four-year experimental program that was
allowed to expire in 1998. Undocumented immigrants could pay a $ 1,000 fine and
wait in the United States while the government processed their paperwork. The
provision generated as much as $ 250 million a year in penalties.

Supporters of strict immigration laws say the program was essentially a reward
for undocumented immigrants. "How can we expect to stop illegal immigration if
all we do is tell people it's okay they broke the law and we'll give them what
they came to get," said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform. "It's like giving a bank robber a free pass and
letting him keep the money."

When undocumented immigrants didn't have to leave the United States to apply to
live and work here, it essentially nullified the reentry bans established under
the 1996 act--three years for people who lived here illegally more than six
months and 10 years for those here more than a year.

"People have to pay the price," said Mark Kirkorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies. "It's not like this guy was kidnapped and
brought to the United States to work."

No one knows how many families have been separated. But in the four years
applicants were allowed to wait out the process in the United States, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service received more than 1 million requests for
change of immigration status, a tenfold increase.

Now, the only way to get around the reentry ban is to apply for a hardship
waiver. "It's extraordinarily difficult to get waivers," said Matthew Tollmer, a
spokesman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "You have to prove
extreme hardship--not to the immigrant but to an American citizen," such as a
relative or an employer.

The association has been pressing Congress to allow applicants with relatives or
employers as sponsors to stay while their cases are pending.

"This law makes no sense at any level," Tollmer said. "These are people we want
in the country. They have family ties and commitments to their communities. . .
. It's in the best interests of our country."

While the debate rages, 1,800 miles separate the Sortos.

Apolinario, the fourth of nine children born to a peasant farmer and his wife,
said he would stay with his parents in the rural village of Pajigua near the
Honduran border. He has not been there in four years.

Apolinario was just 17 and had completed eight years of school when he decided
to come to the United States. His father was ill and could no longer till his
cornfields.

Apolinario said a cousin living in Los Angeles paid a smuggler $ 1,000 to
accompany him across the Mexican border through the Arizona desert, then to
California.

After six months working with his cousin doing landscaping, Apolinario joined a
brother in Leesburg who had applied for asylum.

He worked 100 hours a week in two jobs, as a cook and a dishwasher. Every month,
he sent his parents $ 200.

One day at the fast-food restaurant where he was working, he caught the eye of
the cashier.

"I fell in love with her the first time I saw her," he said. "But I was afraid
to ask her for a date. She's American, and I'm not. I did not know if she would
say yes."

Joanna Perry, then 17, had two years of high school Spanish behind her but
remembered only the words for numbers and "hello." Apolinario spoke almost no
English.

"We couldn't talk," she said, recalling the eye contact that preceded his asking
her to dinner at a Mexican restaurant. "We'd just look at each other smiling."

But love helps inspire language skills. Three months later, as soon as Joanna
turned 18, they eloped to marry before a justice of the peace in Leesburg.

Wanting to start the paperwork to make Apolinario a naturalized citizen, Joanna
asked for his immigration card. He said he didn't have one. She asked for his
visa. Same answer.

"I was angry," Joanna recalled. "My father taught me to do things by the rules.
If you get a speeding ticket, you pay it. I was, like, 'How come I didn't know
this?' That was our first big fight."

They visited an accountant and repaid more than $ 5,000 in state and federal
income taxes owed by Apolinario from a variety of jobs he had held before his
marriage.

A visit to a lawyer was more sobering. Donna Becker, head of legal services at
Hogar Hispano in Falls Church, said Apolinario would have to return to El
Salvador. The wait for a waiver, she said, could be a year or longer.

"This is a sweet young couple whose only crime is the young man came here
illegally like hundreds and hundreds of thousands of others," Becker said.
"Unfortunately, the immigration laws passed in 1996 are very harsh and very
punishing."

Keeping in touch during their separation will not be easy. Apolinario will write
letters telling Joanna when he will visit a friend with a phone, so she can call
him.

"I know what I did was illegal," he said. "But I wish I didn't have to leave
her."

In the past two years, Joanna has watched her grandmother die, her parents
divorce, two siblings move out of state and her father move out of the country.
Now she feels helpless watching her husband leave.

"I understand he broke the law," she said. "I know he has to go back. But I want
him to return as soon as he can.

"I'm an American citizen, and I want my husband with me."

On their last night together, the Sortos dined at a Japanese steakhouse.
Apolinario's brother and sister brought over so many gifts for him to take to
relatives that he had to pay $ 150 for excess baggage.

In his luggage, Apolinario hid the gold signet ring that Joanna gave him for
their anniversary, so as not to attract the attention of robbers in El Salvador.

He knows it may be a long time before he can wear it openly again. The ticket
that he handed to the boarding agent was one-way.

LOAD-DATE: May 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              46 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 11, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Elian Appeal in Court Today; Judges to Hear Arguments on Whether Boy Can Seek
Asylum

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, May 10


Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives will have 20 minutes Thursday to make their
case before three federal judges that the 6-year-old shipwreck victim is old
enough to decide whether he wants to return to Cuba with his father.

The long-awaited hearing at the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals here will
determine whether a lower court erred when it ruled in March that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service acted within the law and its own
regulations in refusing to consider political asylum applications filed on
Elian's behalf by his great-uncle and one application signed by Elian himself.

The Justice Department will argue that the INS was correct in ruling that a
surviving parent, in this case Elian's Cuban father, has the sole right to speak
for a child so young, and that immigration law gives the attorney general wide
discretion in deciding whether to consider asylum applications. In addition, the
government has argued that, even if he were given asylum consideration, there is
no evidence that Elian would meet the standard of likely persecution in Cuba.

The father, who arrived in the United States from Havana on April 6, says that
neither he nor Elian wants to remain in this country. The relatives have charged
that the father and Cuban government officials are "brainwashing" Elian against
them--the same charge that the Cuban government made about the Miami relatives
during the five months the boy spent in South Florida.

After the 15-minute government presentation, the father's attorney will have
five minutes to speak to the judges. The father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, said in a
brief filed last week that Elian's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez was trying to
usurp his parental rights and destroy his family.

The court could take months to issue its opinion, although immigration experts
have said they expect it to be decided in a matter of weeks. Its ruling can be
appealed to the entire 12-member appeals court, or to the U.S. Supreme Court.

The three-judge panel includes Reagan appointee James Edmundson, 52; Bush
appointee Joel Dubina, 52; and Clinton appointee Charles Wilson, 45. Although
the 11th Circuit is normally considered highly favorable to the government in
immigration matters, interim rulings in the Elian case have surprised some
experts.

In granting an injunction last month against Elian's departure from this country
until the appeal is finished, the judges indicated that the relatives'
contention that a 6-year-old could understand and be responsible for requesting
political asylum merited some consideration, and they criticized the INS for not
interviewing the boy in person.

The staid court proceedings will be a marked contrast to the last major
development in the case, when Elian was seized on April 22 by armed federal
agents in a predawn raid at Lazaro Gonzalez's Miami home. Although Republican
members of Congress sharply criticized the raid and called for emergency
hearings, the controversy quickly abated--and the hearings were indefinitely
postponed--after public opinion polls indicated most Americans approved of the
raid and of Elian's return to Cuba.

Since then, Elian has been living with his father, his stepmother and his infant
half-brother in a private home at the Wye River Conference Center, on Maryland's
Eastern Shore. Although attorney Gregory B. Craig said the father will not
attend the hearing, the Miami relatives, including Lazaro Gonzalez, his daughter
Marisleysis and his brother, Delfin, plan to be there. They will be represented
by former U.S. attorney Kendall Coffey, one of their team of a dozen attorneys
in Miami.

On the Eastern Shore, Elian has been kept company by four schoolmates and their
parents, a cousin, his pediatrician and his former kindergarten teacher, who is
providing schooling for the children each morning. The INS said today that the
children, who arrived April 27 with visas for two weeks, would be allowed to
stay an additional two weeks on the recommendation of a government-appointed
social worker and psychiatrist who went there last Thursday and reported that
the visitors were helping Elian readjust to a more normal life.

According to the Justice Department, the two said that Elian was becoming more
used to not being the center of attention after spending five months in Miami
under constant scrutiny by the news media and Cuban Americans who demonstrated
for him to remain in the United States. They have said he appears to have a warm
and close relationship with his father and was sleeping and eating normally.

Their report, which was given to the appeals court and placed under seal today,
said that Elian--who spent two days adrift in the Atlantic Ocean after the
migrant shipwreck in which his mother drowned last November--had expressed fears
of returning to Cuba by boat, and of being placed in jail there. They said his
father had assured him they would travel by airplane, and that he would return
to his previous life in the town of Cardenas, 90 miles east of Havana.

Meanwhile, the Cuban government sharply protested U.S. refusal to issue
immediate visas to Elian's paternal and maternal grandparents and the
grandparents of his half-brother. In an official diplomatic note, Cuba said the
grandparents "feared that any complication with the court decision could make it
more difficult to meet with the boy."

The State Department denied Cuba's contention that the visas had been verbally
approved and then pulled back at the last minute, saying they were still "under
review."


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              47 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 31, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Official With INS Convicted Of Spying; Secrets Given To Friend With Ties to Cuba

Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 30


A senior U.S. immigration official with a 34-year career that included access to
classified information about Cuban defectors and law enforcement sources was
found guilty today by a federal court jury of disclosing government secrets.

Mariano Faget, 54, who came to the United States from Cuba as a teenager and
later became a naturalized U.S. citizen, was an acting deputy director of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami when he was arrested in
February on charges that he revealed secrets to a lifelong friend and business
partner with connections to Cuba.

Faget was the first immigration official ever charged under federal espionage
laws. Although he had a high-level security clearance and occasional access to
sensitive information, officials said, he is not considered to have done
significant harm to U.S. national security. But the case is viewed by some
counterintelligence officials as evidence that Cuba has built an extensive
intelligence network, particularly in the Miami area.

The jury in U.S. District Court here also convicted Faget of converting
government property, or information, to his own use; lying on a security form
when he said he had no foreign business ties; and lying about contacts with a
Cuban official. The jury deliberated for several hours Thursday and again for
three hours today before reaching a verdict.

Faget, who faces a maximum punishment of 10 years in prison, will be sentenced
in August.

"We're pleased," said Hector M. Pesquera, FBI special agent in charge of Miami,
after the verdict. "What was presented to the jury was unequivocal in support of
the violations he was charged with. There was no doubt on the government's side
that that was the only decision the jury could come up with."

As part of an FBI sting called "Operation False Blue," Faget, who was nearing
retirement, was told a phony story about the upcoming defection of a top Cuban
intelligence officer.

On Feb. 11, he attended a meeting with Pesquera and other senior U.S. officials
who sought his advice about the bogus defection of Luis Molina, described in
court as one of two known Cuban intelligence officers who had been seen meeting
alone with Faget over the past year.

Twelve minutes after the meeting, FBI agents listened in as Faget dialed his
personal cell phone and relayed the information to friend Pedro Font, a New York
City businessman with Cuban ties who was to meet shortly with Jose Imperatori,
an official in the Cuban diplomatic mission in Washington.

The FBI also had gathered surveillance of Faget making unauthorized contact with
Imperatori.

Imperatori was expelled from the United States earlier this year. Both he and
Molina have denied they were spies.

During closing arguments Thursday, Faget's attorneys called the FBI case
"outrageous and slanderous," and described Faget as "an honest government
servant who made a mistake."

"They thought this man . . . was a Castro agent. They know, they have to know
now, that's not true," Faget's attorney Ed O'Donnell told the 12-person jury,
which included six jurors of Cuban descent. "Now they say he did it for money,
influence and access."

But federal prosecutors countered that Faget was trying to "deceive" the jury
just as he had deceived the U.S. government.

"Mariano Faget was a government employee willing to betray the trust of the
people he was sworn to serve," Assistant U.S. Attorney Curtis Miner told the
jurors. "He disclosed classified information for no better purpose than his own
personal reasons, his own personal gain."

Faget and Font had formed America-Cuba Inc. in 1993 to pursue business ventures
in Cuba should the U.S. trade embargo against the communist nation be lifted.

Last week, Faget took the stand in his own defense, testifying he had tipped off
Font only because Font was meeting with Imperatori, and Faget feared for Font's
safety should the Cuban officials think Font was involved in the alleged
defection. He said he was afraid Font might fall into a "trap."

But prosecutors argued that Faget really told the secret to ingratiate himself
with Font and the Cuban officials.

Faget described his earlier meetings with Cuban officials as attempts to gauge
the business climate in his former homeland in order to "help Cuba" in the
future.

"As one gets older, I guess one's roots start tugging at him," Faget said on the
stand last week.

But FBI agent James Patrick Laflin testified that Faget was "manipulative and
deceitful" when the FBI questioned him for six hours on Feb. 17 about his
contacts with the Cuban government.

Faget countered that he was reluctant to cooperate with agents because they kept
insisting his friend Font was a spy.

INS officials had little comment on the verdict.

"The system has rendered its decision, and we will consider Mr. Faget's status
with INS based upon this decision and federal personnel guidelines," said INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron. Faget technically remains an INS employee, on leave
without pay since his arrest.

Earlier this year, the Miami Herald described Faget's father, Mariano Faget Sr.,
as someone who hunted down and tortured suspected communists for the government
of Fulgencio Batista, who was overthrown by Fidel Castro. A book on the Cuban
revolution also stated that Faget Sr. had worked with the FBI.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              48 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 4, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Algerian Plot Suspect May Face Deportation

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 278 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


An Algerian man suspected of links to an alleged international plot to blow up
U.S. buildings will be handed over to immigration authorities for probable
deportation, the Seattle Times said in an online report.

Abdel Hakim Tizegha, 29, was arrested near Seattle on Dec. 24 and charged with
illegally entering from Vancouver, where he had gone after being denied
political asylum by U.S. authorities. He originally arrived in the United States
as a stowaway in 1993. Last year he moved to Canada and unsuccessfully sought
asylum.

U.S. District Judge Barbara Rothstein sentenced Tizegha, who pleaded guilty to
entering illegally, to the time he had served since his arrest, the Times said
Friday on its Web site.

The report quoted Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Hamilton as saying the
Immigration and Naturalization Service would take custody of Tizegha pending a
deportation hearing.

Tizegha was arrested amid heightened security in the Seattle area after the
arrest of another Algerian, Ahmed Ressam, who U.S. authorities say tried to
smuggle bomb-making equipment into the Seattle area from Canada.

Ressam's arrest sparked fears of possible terrorist bombings during New Year's
celebrations and led Seattle to cancel a giant millennium party at the Space
Needle. No attacks occurred.

Both the prosecutor and the defense lawyer said federal prosecutors in New York
may be interested in talking to Tizegha further, the Times said.

The New York investigators are looking into whether Abdel Ghani Meskini, another
Algerian whom prosecutors say had links to Ressam, was also involved in the
alleged bomb plot and whether he had ties to Tizegha.

LOAD-DATE: June 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              49 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 4, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Case Closed. Please.

Mary McGrory

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01; MARY MCGRORY

LENGTH: 833 words



Yes, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, finally says--although not
in so many words--Elian can go home. Yes, Cuba "does violate human rights and
fundamental freedoms and does not guarantee the rule of law." Yes, the three
judges admit, "reeducation, communist indoctrination and political manipulation
. . . for propaganda purposes are not beyond the realm of possibility."

Nonetheless, the three judges say in their willfully dry decision. "Nonetheless"
tolls like a bell through these unemotional pages. The judges hold their robes
free of the messy realities that have engaged our attention for too long. To
them, it is not a matter of fathers and sons, it is a matter of "separation of
powers" and the legality of a 6-year-old applying for asylum.

The court gives more than due deference to the uneven performance of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which, like every other government
entity, is intimidated by the clamorous Cubans of Miami. The immigration
authorities did not send Elian home to Cuba promptly, as they do so many
castaways. Instead, he was put in the hands of his great uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez,
an unemployed Castro hater; Lazaro's daughter, Marisleysis; and the rest of the
fanatical Miami Cubans. The winsome survivor was put to work in their cause. He
was hauled out of the house to oblige the ever-present cameras and meet news
deadlines. Marisleysis identified herself as his "foster mother," while
alternately sobbing out her fears of the torture that awaited him in Cuba and
giggling with her girlfriends.

Diane Sawyer had a play date with the famous waif and stood on her head, which
is what American politicians were doing for the Miami Cubans. Vice President
Gore did a giant pander, insisting that the matter belonged in family court. He
paid dearly for his folly. Yet he was still arguing last week for the case to go
to family court, even after the appeals court spoke.

What kind of a life will Elian have when he goes back? Will he be surrounded by
cameras night and day as he was in Little Havana--with the single difference
that all the camera people will be speaking Spanish? It seems too much to hope
that Fidel Castro, who is not a subtle man, will rest before making sure that
every person on the planet understands who won this latest round with the
gringos.

Have we seen the last of the relatives? Lazaro Gonzalez, who might not have done
well under the scrutiny of social workers had the custody matter gone to family
court, may fade away. He glowers convincingly but, after 15 years in the country
he professes to love so deeply, has yet to learn English. Marisleysis will
undoubtedly have her own television talk show--on child care. Donato Dalrymple,
the house cleaner who on his single fishing expedition helped scoop Elian out of
the Atlantic on Thanksgiving Day, will not go quietly. He has grown accustomed
to the bright lights, to being hailed as "El Pescador," and has found his real
calling as a career opportunist: He is suing the government for violation of his
civil rights during the Easter weekend raid that brought Elian out of Miami.

Gregory Craig, the lawyer for Elian's father and the object of much right-wing
rant, says the substance of the case is over. But Juan Miguel Gonzalez, his wife
and children have to stay here two weeks more in case the relatives appeal.

The country is with Juan Miguel in this fight. The diehards hope that somehow he
will come to his senses and beg to stay here. But Juan Miguel, you would have to
say, has not seen us at our best.

He might have concluded that this is a violent society. On Holy Saturday, he
awakened to the sight of terrified Elian facing the business end of a submachine
gun--only Craig's quick-wittedness in producing a disposable camera and a photo
of father and son, beamingly reunited, saved the day. On Easter Monday, from the
government retreat on the Wye River, Juan Miguel watched coverage of a teenage
gunman who had opened fire on children at the entrance to the National Zoo.

He learned that Lazaro Gonzalez had defied a direct order from the attorney
general, heard Cuban-American mayors practically invite their constituents to
riot to keep Elian in the United States, watched citizens ride up to City Hall
and throw bananas to protest the firing of the police chief who refused to warn
the mayor of the imminent raid.

Although Juan Miguel had heard much about the freedom to travel, he did not have
it. The judges made him stay here while they ruminated. He seems eager to
abandon the comforts of Northwest Washington so that local liberals can resume
walking their dogs on the Cleveland Park estate that he and those federal
marshals have been occupying for more than a week. It is hard for some Americans
to understand how a man could leave affluence and celebrity for a dingy seaside
town where 1953 Oldsmobiles are luxury cars.

Nonetheless, as the judges so often say, he prefers to go home with his son.


LOAD-DATE: June 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              50 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 9, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Transgendered Pair Doing Battle With INS

Brooke A. Masters , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1195 words


This is a modern love story.

Although they lived on opposite sides of the Atlantic, Katherine and Pat Spray
became friends on the Internet in 1995. That summer, the pair were between jobs,
so they decided to tour the United States, putting 15,000 miles on two cars in
just three months.

Somewhere on the interstate, they say, they fell in love.

So they got married while visiting a friend in North Carolina, applied for a
marriage-based visa for Katherine and settled down in Virginia.

Now the Immigration and Naturalization Service is trying to ship Katherine back
to Ireland and has threatened to prosecute the couple on charges of marriage
fraud.

The reason, the Sprays contend, is bigotry: Katherine was born Damien Niland and
lived as a man until 1991, and Pat--once known as Patricia--was born female but
now lives as a man.

Immigration officials will not speak specifically about the Sprays' case, but in
official documents, the INS questioned Katherine's marriage-based visa
application because Pat Spray did not disclose a 1975 marriage, and the INS
discovered it had not been properly dissolved.

But the Sprays don't believe that explanation. "They are hunting us, and the
only reason we can think of is that we are transgendered," said Katherine Spray,
31. "They want me gone."

The Sprays acknowledge that their application contained that serious flaw. But
several immigration lawyers say the INS normally allows applicants a few months
to fix such problems.

"It's fairly common for people to have invalid divorces. . . . Under those
circumstances, you let them fix it. Why not, especially if it's an honest
mistake?" said Michael Maggio, a D.C. immigration lawyer not connected to the
case.

"The reality is that we live in a country where, although it is much better on
gay rights, homophobia still rules," Maggio said.

The Sprays said they have been accused by the INS of having a sham marriage and
a same-sex marriage and threatened with immediate imprisonment unless they
withdrew their application.

INS District Director Warren Lewis has ordered Katherine's immediate expulsion,
according to INS documents. The couple have hired an attorney, Rex Wingerter,
who is negotiating with the INS and planning to file a federal lawsuit.

William Bittner, the INS officer in charge of the Norfolk office, which is
handling the application, confirmed that the case has been forwarded for
criminal prosecution, but he declined to say more. The U.S. attorney's office
would not comment.

The Sprays' troubles come at a time of increased scrutiny for immigrants. As
anti-immigrant sentiment rose in the mid-1990s, the INS came under increasing
pressure to weed out inappropriate applications. Successful immigration-fraud
prosecutions are up 9 percent nationwide in the first six months of fiscal year
2000 over the same period in 1999, said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron. About 40
percent of those are marriage-fraud cases.

The Arlington district INS office, which oversees all Virginia cases, has 70
marriage-fraud cases pending, including Katherine and Pat Spray, said
spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs. She would not comment further.

Katherine, who was born with external male genitalia and raised as a boy,
learned in 1991 that medical tests had revealed both male and female chromosomes
(two X and one Y), as well as one ovary and a vestigial uterus. Katherine now
has long hair, pierced ears and eyebrows and hormone-induced breasts. Norfolk
Circuit Court approved a name change to Katherine Spray in 1996.

Pat Spray's family was told by doctors that blood tests had detected unusually
high levels of testosterone for a teenage girl, but Pat, then known as Patricia,
lived as a woman until the 1990s, marrying two men and giving birth to a
daughter in 1980.

"I've always been one of the guys," said Pat, 44. "My second husband was so
frustrated, because basically I'm a guy, and he was trying to treat me like a
woman and it wasn't working."

It was the first marriage that turned out to be the troublesome one. Patricia
Spray and John Martin split up in Texas in 1978, and both say they thought the
other had obtained a divorce. Martin, 57, said he has remarried, and he declined
to comment further. Martin and Spray filed for divorce in Alexandria Circuit
Court in May.

Pat and Katherine embarked on their cross-country trek in 1995 and married in
Winston-Salem, N.C., that September. Their relationship was a revelation, they
say.

"When you're transgendered, you figure you're stuck on your own for the rest of
your life because it's too weird," Katherine said. "Then I got here and found
someone I could trust, someone who wouldn't laugh and wouldn't try to make me do
something if I couldn't."

The couple moved to Norfolk, found work and filed the visa application in 1996.
Two years later, Katherine, who had a temporary work permit because of the
application, bought a town house in Virginia Beach, court records show.

"They are very committed to each other," said Dave Hagn, a friend of the couple
since 1995. "It's a pretty classic example of a good marriage."

For reasons that remain unclear, the INS did not act on the Sprays' application
until this year. By that time, Katherine had gotten a job at UUNet as a server
operations team leader and moved to Sterling. Pat followed, starting a job in
April at a Rockville consulting firm.

The Sprays never changed their INS application to reflect the move to Sterling,
though, and experts said that failure may have raised a red flag. The INS
usually checks to see that marriage visa applicants are living together, and in
this case, the investigators would have found a mostly empty house.

The Sprays say they found the INS investigators immediately hostile. At a first
interview in March, the examiner accused Pat, who was between jobs at the time,
of freeloading on Katherine in exchange for supporting the application, the
couple said.

The Sprays said that at the second interview--on Easter Sunday--the INS officer
told them that Katherine would be thrown into a male detention facility if they
did not withdraw their application. And UUNet terminated Katherine's employment
after the INS contacted the company and said the temporary work permit was no
longer valid, a UUNet spokeswoman said.

The imprisonment threat and the call to the employer are both unusual, Wingerter
and other immigration lawyers said. And referring the case for criminal fraud
prosecution based on Pat Spray's omitted marriage struck several outside lawyers
as overkill.

"Threatening criminal prosecution is something that I have never heard of where
there is a legitimate, bona fide marriage," said D.C. immigration lawyer Jose
Pertierra. "They probably looked at the couple, saw it was counterintuitive and
decided it couldn't be a valid marriage. That says more about the prejudice of
the examiner than about the marriage."

For the Sprays, the message is clear. "They're gunning for us," Katherine said.
"Everything they've done is to scare us into either leaving the country or doing
something stupid that would give them legitimate grounds to kick me out."


LOAD-DATE: June 09, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              51 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 11, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Judge Kills Challenge To INS Policy on Cubans

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 10


A class action lawsuit aimed at preventing the government from sending back
Cuban migrants who reach U.S. territorial waters but not U.S. soil has been
thrown out by a federal judge.

Francisco Abreu, a Miami engineer, filed the lawsuit after his wife and son were
intercepted last summer by the U.S. Coast Guard in the Florida Straits, then
sent back to Cuba.

U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler ruled Thursday that Abreu lacked legal
standing to bring the lawsuit on behalf of Cuban migrants because the people the
lawsuit proposed to represent do not live in the United States. Hoeveler also
ruled that Abreu's challenge was without merit because the government has the
authority to enforce immigration law as it sees fit.

The decision is consistent with previous court rulings deferring to the INS's
authority to enforce immigration law.

"I'm disappointed in the decision, though not surprised," said Wilfredo Allen,
one of Abreu's attorneys.

The INS policy Abreu challenged, known as "wet foot, dry foot," was put in place
in 1995 to help stem the tide of immigrants.

Under the policy, Cubans intercepted at sea are sent back if they cannot prove
they face political persecution back home.

Migrants who reach U.S. shores are protected by the older, 1966 Cuban Adjustment
Act. They are allowed to stay in this country, and can apply for residency after
a year and a day.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              52 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 16, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Drug Sale Instigates Deportation; Americans Adopted Brazilian as Child

Susan Levine , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 319 words


A 22-year-old Ohio man, adopted as a child from Brazil but never naturalized as
a U.S. citizen, was ordered deported yesterday because in 1997 he sold 7.5
ounces of marijuana to a police informant.

Immigration Judge Elizabeth Hacker issued a final order that Joao Herbert be
returned to his native country because of the drug conviction that followed his
arrest. It was Herbert's first criminal offense, for which he was sentenced only
to probation and community treatment. But under immigration law, it made him an
aggravated felon and essentially ensured that he would be deported permanently
from his adopted country.

"The law has taken all discretion from the judge and the court, despite any
humanitarian factors that might exist," said attorney Maura Jaite, who
represented Herbert at a hearing yesterday in Cleveland. "In this case, they
don't even come into play."

Still, Jaite said she would appeal the order, which would give Herbert an
automatic stay of deportation. He has been detained by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for 15 months and is seeking a writ of habeas corpus that
would force his release pending the appeal.

Herbert is not the first adoptee to discover, too late, that a lifetime in
America with American parents is no protection under the law. Unless an
individual is naturalized--even one adopted at birth--he or she is still subject
to automatic removal if convicted of one of a multitude of offenses both large
and small.

For months, Herbert's case has been complicated by Brazil's refusal to accept
him because of its contention that adoption is irrevocable. In explaining that
position earlier this year, Brazilian Ambassador Rubens Antonio Barbosa also
mentioned the humanitarian concerns: Herbert knows no one in the country and no
longer understands Portuguese.

As of yesterday, Jaite said, Herbert still does not have any travel documents.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              53 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Bush Proposes Splitting Duties of INS; Law Enforcement And Processing Would Be
Separate

Terry M. Neal , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04; CAMPAIGN 2000

LENGTH: 822 words



Citing what his campaign called an "inherent conflict" in immigration policy,
Texas Gov. George W. Bush yesterday proposed splitting the Immigration and
Naturalization Service into separate agencies--one for law enforcement, the
other to welcome new people to the country.

The Republican presidential candidate also proposed changing the law to allow
the spouses and children of legal permanent residents to apply for visitors'
visas while their own applications are pending. Bush said that policy would
reverse the government's presumption that visiting family members would try to
stay in the country once their visas expired.

Bush announced the proposals in a speech to the League of United Latin American
Citizens national convention in Washington yesterday afternoon. It was the
beginning of two weeks of outreach to minority voters that continued last night
in New York with a Bush speech to the Congress of Racial Equality. CORE is a
conservative African American group, and Bush was joined by, among other people,
Republican National Committee Chairman Jim Nicholson, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani
and National Rifle Association executive vice president Wayne LaPierre.

Besides the new proposals on immigration in his Washington address, Bush
otherwise stuck close to his standard stump speech, emphasizing issues such as
education and economic empowerment.

Taking up an issue he hopes will resonate with many Hispanics, Bush criticized
the INS as overly bureaucratic and said its dual mission to enforce the borders
and process new arrivals "resulted in lax enforcement and adversarial service."
Under Bush's proposal, the INS would be split into separate agencies that would
be headed by an associate attorney general for immigration affairs.

"It's an agency that sends mixed signals to the people we are trying to help,"
Bush said. "People ought to be asking the question, 'How can I help you, what
can I do to help you fill out paperwork?' We ought to be saying loud and clear
to people that the INS is to help families and to help people understand the
maze of rules and regulations."

There are at least two bills pending in Congress that would restructure the INS.
Bush aides said that the governor's proposal was not patterned after any one
particular measure, despite its similarities to a proposal by Sen. Spencer
Abraham (R-Mich.).

Several people at the LULAC conference praised the idea. Frank Sharry, an
official at a separate pro-immigration policy group, the National Immigration
Forum, said he was pleased that Bush is proposing reform of the INS but he said
the speech ignored politically stickier issues, such as whether Bush supports
amnesty for about 800,000 illegal immigrants from the Caribbean and South and
Central America now in the United States.

Doug Hattaway, a spokesman for Vice President Gore, said Gore has supported
efforts in Congress to restructure and streamline the agency but does not
support splitting it into two. "We don't need to create another bureaucracy," he
said.

In Washington, Bush also sought repeatedly to demonstrate his familiarity with
and sensitivity to Hispanics, sprinkling his speech with Spanish phrases. "The
Latin culture is going to be a powerful influence, not only politically but in
what is right for America," Bush said. He praised the entrepreneurial spirit of
Hispanics in California, where more than 600,000 Hispanics own businesses.

And he promised to continue and expand pro-trade policies that he said are
essential to improving the economies of Central and South America. Doing so, he
said, will reduce immigration pressures on the United States because most
illegal immigrants are coming to this country out of a desire to care for their
families. "Family values don't stop at the Rio Grande," he said.

LULAC is a nonpartisan Hispanic advocacy group with about 115,000 members. Gore
will speak to the group on Friday. Bush was received politely by the crowd,
which gave him a standing ovation at the end of his speech. Afterward, LULAC
national president Rick Dovalina, an attorney from Houston, praised Bush for
reaching out but stressed that the organization does not endorse political
candidates.

Before the speech, Bush met privately with a group of LULAC leaders, who aired
some of their concerns. They asked Bush for help with Enrique Moreno, a veteran
El Paso lawyer nominated by President Clinton to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals last September. The nomination has been held up by Texas GOP Sens. Phil
Gramm and Kay Bailey Hutchison, who questioned Moreno's qualifications.
Dovalina, a Democrat, said Bush promised to look into the situation.

Last September, Dovalina was quoted in the Austin American-Statesman sharply
criticizing Bush efforts to appeal to Hispanic voters. Dovalina yesterday said
Bush's efforts to sit down and talk with LULAC leaders had led him to reassess
that statement.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              54 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 4, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Turnabout in Attitudes and Actions

Philip P. Pan , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 601 words


Record numbers of immigrants applied to become U.S. citizens during the
mid-1990s, but the wave of applications has since dropped off and the overall
citizenship rate of the nation's immigrants remains low.

From 1993 to 1999, about 6.4 million immigrants applied for citizenship--more
than in the previous 37 years combined. But because so many new immigrants
continue to arrive, the U.S. Census Bureau reported last year that barely
one-third of immigrants are citizens, a smaller proportion than at any time in
the past century.

Several factors were behind the historic surge in citizenship applications:


* Numbers. Nearly 3 million immigrants who entered the country illegally and
were granted residency under a 1986 amnesty became eligible for citizenship
during the 1990s.


* Fear. An anti-immigrant backlash led California voters to pass Proposition 187
in 1994 and Congress to adopt several immigration changes in 1996, stripping
legal immigrants who were not citizens of benefits and making noncitizens more
vulnerable to deportation.


* Cost. As the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced successive fee
increases, immigrants rushed to apply for citizenship before each one took
effect. In addition, the INS began requiring legal immigrants to replace their
green cards and charging a fee to do so. Many decided to apply for
naturalization instead.


* Dual citizenship. Many of the Latin American countries that send large numbers
of immigrants to the United States adopted dual nationality laws in the 1990s,
beginning with Colombia, and followed by the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Costa
Rica, Brazil and Mexico. Those laws made becoming a U.S. citizen an easier
decision for immigrants who previously had resisted it because they did not want
to lose the right to vote or other privileges in their native countries.

The boom in citizenship peaked in 1997, when the INS received 1.6 million
applications. The figure dropped by half the next year, and it slipped again to
about 720,000 new applications last year.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said applications have fallen off because so
many immigrants already have applied for citizenship, and because the
anti-immigrant sentiment of the mid-1990s has subsided. But she also argues that
Latino immigrants continue to seek citizenship at historically high rates.

Those who work in or study Hispanic immigrant communities say there has been a
sea change in Latino attitudes toward naturalization.

Before the 1990s, many considered naturalization a betrayal of the home country
and the dream of returning someday--a dream that was all the stronger for
immigrants from nearby Latin America. (Cuban immigrants, who have naturalized at
much higher rates, were an exception in part because they could not return
home.)

For many, naturalization was an emotional decision, and it was not uncommon for
those who became citizens to be ostracized by the majority who did not.

"The attachment was so strong. It was like betraying your mother," said Aida
Gonzales-Jarrin, director of cultural affairs for the Queens borough president
in New York. "The Ecuadoreans would have meetings, and people would get upset
when those of us who acquired citizenship showed up."

But the dual nationality laws changed everything. "Now, it's the oppositie,"
Gonzales-Jarrin said. "People have to explain why they aren't citizens yet. We
put pressure on them, and they say, 'Okay, okay, I'm going to do it.' "

And when they don't, she said, it's usually because they believe the process is
too difficult.


LOAD-DATE: July 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              55 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 6, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Bush Promises Latinos He'll Speed Up Immigration Process

Michael A. Fletcher , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 920 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 5


Presumptive Republican presidential nominee George W. Bush today said that he
would set a "standard" of having the federal government process immigration
applications within six months if he is elected president.

Speaking before the annual convention of the National Council of La Raza (NCLR),
Bush said that his proposal, long sought by many of the 2,500 Latino community
activists gathered here, is part of a larger plan to create "a new culture of
respect" at the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "The current INS is too
bureaucratic. It is too stuck in the past," Bush said.

Bush added that it takes as long as five years for the INS to process
citizenship applications. (Last year, the INS said the process had been reduced
to 12 months.) He promised to speed the process in part by adding $ 500 million
over five years to the INS budget.

In remarks before the same group on Monday, Vice President Gore also aimed at
impressing his Latino audience. Speaking at a packed town hall meeting, the
presumptive Democratic presidential nominee said he wants to craft immigration
policy that combined "respect for humanity" with the need to protect the
integrity of the U.S. border.

The dueling appearances by the two candidates before one of the nation's leading
Latino advocacy groups underscore the importance they are placing on wooing the
nation's fast-growing Latino vote. Political strategists in both parties view
the nation's 31 million Latinos as a key not only to victory in the upcoming
election but also to their future strength. Here in California, for example,
Latinos comprise about 14 percent of the electorate. Nationwide, they are
expected to make up about 8 percent of the nation's voters in November, up from
5 percent four years ago.

In 1996, President Clinton won nearly three out of four of the nation's Hispanic
vote, but it is widely believed that the Latino vote is up for grabs this time.
Not only did Bush win close to half of the Latino vote in his landslide
reelection in the 1998 Texas gubernatorial race but he also has been campaigning
harder among Hispanics and other minorities than any Republican presidential
candidate in memory.

"The Republican Party, in some quarters, is seen as anti-immigrant," Bush said.
"I know I got an image to battle."

Like Gore, Bush sprinkled his speech here with Spanish phrases and touched on
themes seen as important to Latino voters: the importance of family and the
contribution immigrants make to the nation.

Bush also ticked off a list of his accomplishments as Texas governor, including
raising standardized test scores among Latino children and extending water lines
and waste hookups to impoverished Latino communities near his state's border
with Mexico.

Bush also added a personal touch, introducing his nephew George P. Bush to the
gathering. "We are very proud to have Spanish blood in our family," the
candidate said as his nephew rose to acknowledge applause. The younger Bush is
the son of Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) and his Mexican American wife, Columba.

"Generally, I'm cautious about Republicans, but I feel a lot of truth in his
voice and his heart," Jaime Franco, a Modesto organizer, said of George W. Bush.
"He seems to be accepting that we [Latinos] are part of the American family."

But Jose Moreno, a San Diego public relations executive who also heard Bush's
speech, said he has a hard time moving beyond Bush's Republican label.

"We have a long memory about what happened with the [Pete] Wilson
administration," Moreno said of the former Republican governor of California who
is perceived by many Latinos as having fanned anti-immigrant sentiment. "It
seems to me that the Democrats were in our corner during tough times when the
Republicans weren't."

On Monday, several prominent Latino officials, including former housing and
urban development secretary Henry A. Cisneros and California Lt. Gov. Cruz
Bustamante, accompanied Gore during his appearance. Bustamante drew laughter
from the crowd by noting that Gore is no "Georgie come lately" to Latino
audiences.

A relaxed and animated Gore was received warmly as he bantered with the crowd
about his grandson and his 30-year marriage to Tipper. He also touted his own
list of achievements, saying the "Clinton-Gore" administration has lowered
unemployment and crime and increased home ownership, all of which have benefited
Latinos.

In response to a question, Gore said that he would like to see the Navy stop
using the Puerto Rican island of Vieques as a bombing range "as soon as
possible." Gore's comments on Vieques were his strongest to date on the
controversy. In November, he said that the Navy should search for some
"alternative way of training."

The efforts of both candidates to burnish their images among Latino voters
appeared to please the activists here, although NCLR policy experts said their
promises often offered less than met the eye.

On the issue of Vieques, several activists who have followed the controversy
said that since a proposed agreement to end the bombing has been held up in
Congress, Gore's comments were of little consequence.

Similarly, NCLR officials say that an INS plan to speed citizenship approvals
was derailed in 1996 by congressional Republicans, who accused the INS of
quickly approving citizenship applications for political reasons.

"There is some question of which Republican message do we pay attention to,"
said Cecilia Munoz, NCLR's vice president for policy.


LOAD-DATE: July 06, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              56 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 11, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Dissident Will Not Be Returned to Iran

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 425 words


An Iranian dissident who has been detained since April on suspicion of belonging
to a group designated by the State Department as a sponsor of terrorist
activities will not be deported to Iran, her lawyer and an immigration official
said yesterday.

But they disagreed about whether she will be deported at all. As part of a
settlement, Mahnaz Samadi, 35, who claims to have been tortured in Iran between
1982 and 1986, will be deported to a third country, an immigration spokesman
said. Her attorney, disputing that assertion, said Samadi will be allowed to
remain indefinitely in the United States.

She was accused in immigration documents of preparing rebel units under her
command for "coordinated attacks designed to liberate Iran."

The settlement calls for her release from detention and dismissal of
terrorism-related charges against her, said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Samadi, who came to the United States in 1994 and was granted political asylum
in 1995, admitted to immigration officials that she had fraudulently attained
asylum and was willing to give up that status, Bergeron said.

Samadi's main concern was that she not be deported back to Iran. Speaking to the
Washington Times last week from her jail cell in Richmond, she said, "I have no
doubt that I will be tortured to death, not simply executed" if she is returned.

She has had the backing of more than 60 House members, who sent a letter to
Attorney General Janet Reno pleading for her release and accusing prison
officials of mistreating her.

Sen. Robert G. Torricelli (D-N.J.) welcomed the decision to drop the terrorism
charges against Samadi. "I have been convinced from the beginning she is not a
terrorist, and she poses no threat to our country," Torricelli said.

Samadi has the backing of the National Council for Resistance of Iran, which has
been praised by many lawmakers as a legitimate group seeking democracy in Iran.

The State Department, however, continues to list it as an alias for the
Iraq-based Mujahedeen Khalq, which it describes as a terrorist organization.

Samadi has denied committing any terrorist acts. Her Washington attorney,
Michael Maggio, says she is no longer a member of the Iranian opposition and has
committed no crimes in this country.

He said immigration service assertions that she will be deported to a third
country are incorrect.

"It would violate the spirit of the agreement," Maggio said. "In reality,
something like this is not going to happen."


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              57 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 23, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

An Imperfect Union; Europe's Experiment Faces New Obstacles

Hugo Young

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1897 words

DATELINE: LONDON



Not long ago, a member of the Green Party in the German parliament, the
Bundestag, was returning home from abroad. Carrying a diplomatic passport, as
all German politicians do, he was challenged by an immigration officer who
believed, on account of his Turkish name and appearance, that he was an illegal
immigrant.

There are some 15 million Muslims living in the European Union (EU) and many
Turks whose parents and grandparents were born in Germany. But the meaning of
this has not penetrated every border post. To the immigration officer, the
politician's diplomatic passport evidently made him suspect as a foreigner.

"But I am a German myself," the politician finally protested.

The officer grudgingly accepted this, but nonetheless thought it did not close
the question. "Yes," he replied. "But how long will you be staying?"

The episode may say something special about Germany, which, unlike most
countries, has long accorded citizenship almost exclusively to those who have a
blood connection with the Vaterland. But there's a European dimension, too. It
has been 42 years since the European Community, now the European Union, was
founded, and there are at least as many nationalities within it as there are
within the United States. Yet who belongs to "Europe," and exactly what that
means, are questions that continue to surge unresolved around the European
project.


For many Americans, this issue reeks alarmingly of xenophobia. Seen from New
York or St. Louis or Los Angeles, Europe is now a continent that appears in many
ways to be coming together. Isn't this a place, with its free movement of
capital and labor, that is beginning to follow the U.S. model? One continent,
one people, irrespective of color, creed or internal geography. That surely is
what Europe is about.

At a high level of idealism, there is some truth to this notion. The
integrationist trend continues to move forward. But the details, both cultural
and legal, get more, not less, problematic. Among the present members of the EU,
as well as those struggling to gain admission to the club, there are crises of
identity that relate to one issue above all others: the right to roam and work
freely across the place called Europe. The meaning of that right may be on the
verge of wrecking the noblest experiment in geopolitics of the past 50 years.

In theory, at least, the right exists throughout the 15 member countries of the
EU--and it is integral to the single market that is the most developed feature
of the union. Germans can work in France, Danes holiday in Italy and Spaniards
travel to Belgium, without a frontier check between them.

But there are already limits. Britain, for example, won't accept free movement.
The tunnel under the English Channel, former prime minister Margaret Thatcher's
surprising gift to the Europeanization of Britain, is held up by passport
control. That has meant, by a destructive irony, that Britain becomes the haven
of choice for illegal immigrants who cross oceans and deserts, from jobless
poverty in Africa or Asia, to enter the promised land of Europe.

That is because even though Britain insists on passport control, it exerts much
less control once its borders are crossed. Vos papiers, monsieur, the French
policeman's demand that stops the heart of anyone traveling without an ID card,
has no equivalent in London. Europe's rule, when illegal migrants are found, is
to dispatch them beyond the zone of free movement--and that often means into
Britain. French and Belgian authorities, while famously harsh on illegals, have
also been known to turn a blind eye if they see them on their way across the
channel.

It was no accident that the 58 Chinese men and women who died from suffocation
in a container truck last month were trying to enter Britain through the port of
Dover. These were people whom Europe would never accommodate, but for whom
Britain, having chosen to be outside the framework of continental immigration
control, offered a last-chance opportunity worth risking their lives for.

National disavowals of being fully European are a feature of the developing EU.
There is no country called Europe and probably never will be, no matter how
vividly that nightmare features in the discourse of anti-Europeans, especially
in Britain. For example, a single currency and a united security force are two
features of what could be called a single country, but both, though being
developed with serious intent, fail to command universal support. Britain,
Denmark and Sweden are outside the currency; Sweden, Ireland and Austria outside
the defense force.

The limits of Europe, in other words, are flexible, even among those who have
signed on to the idea and sunk part of their national sovereignty within it.
Europe is an evolving concept, still an experiment. It is a place that is
federalistic without being a federation; where national jealousies continue to
exist, yet are being subordinated; where each citizen is expected one day to be
at ease with the proposition that he/she is British or Portuguese or Dutch, and
simultaneously is European.


So much for this process of integration, the limits of which are disputed and
will come to a stop who knows where. But Europe covers terrain wider than the 15
countries in the EU. The real issue now is how Europe can become the legal
entity that encompasses many more nation-states. They are knocking at the door.
Indisputably, they belong to the cultural entity, Europa. Prague, after all,
calls itself the geographical center of European civilization. The claims of
Budapest and Warsaw on any union that purports to unite the interests of this
continental land mass in a globalized world cannot be rejected.

Nobody in the EU is publicly denying their claims. They are, nonetheless, being
stalled. This is the coming crisis of Europe. At the heart of the problem is the
attitude underlying the immigration controller's encounter with the
Turkish-German politician. Do you really belong here? You don't look or sound
like one of us. Whose job might you be trying to take? Surely there must be
limits to whom we let in.

Part of this issue will come to a head in December, when the existing members of
the EU meet in Nice, France, to do what technically needs to be done to make an
enlarged union manageable. A system that was set up for only six members in 1958
is fit to bust with 15. It would fall apart with 20 or, as is finally envisaged,
30 or more countries stretching from Latvia to Turkey, Romania, perhaps even to
Morocco. The weight of each country's vote, the size of its representation and
the range of its veto all have to be adjusted if the union is neither to fall
apart nor to congeal into stasis.

These basic tasks, the essential prelude to enlargement, probably will edge
toward completion, after grubby horse trading right through the 11th hour of the
final day, and be inscribed in the Treaty of Nice. But they are only a
beginning.

Behind and beyond them stand questions that cast doubt over the process,
delaying if not stultifying it before it is complete.

The biggest question is illuminated by the recent history of a single state:
Austria. A full member of the EU, Austria was nonetheless penalized last March
for electing a government that included, as minority partners, members of the
right-wing Freedom Party led by Joerg Haider. Haider's flirtation with Holocaust
denial and Hitlerism, along with his party's strident xenophobia, caused the
other 14 members to impose diplomatic sanctions on Austria. France and Belgium,
which are especially determined to marginalize their own far-right parties,
believed that the arrival in power of another neo-fascist grouping must be
defined as inconsistent with the basic values of the EU.

This controversial repudiation challenging a freely elected democratic
government--and the diplomatic sanctions imposed--remains in place, despite the
fact that Haider has stepped down. Many EU countries, having sent their message,
would now like to restore normal relations with Austria. If this doesn't happen,
Austria threatens to block the Treaty of Nice and hence the entire enlargement
process. But the Austrian position is more than diplomatic pique, just as
Haider's line was more than that of a posturing far-right playboy.

Enlarging the EU to include first Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and
Slovenia--and Romania and possibly the Balkan republics later--raises the
specter of mass migration from poor countries to relatively rich ones, which
shakes an already fragile political environment. Austria, with borders touching
four aspirant member nations, has already received more migrant Europeans than
many others. This history helps explain Haider's rise. The migrant phenomenon,
often the only aspect of European union that many ordinary voters are aware of,
threatens to liquidate such popular support as there already is, which isn't
much, for extending the ideal of Europe over the whole area on the map that goes
by that name.

Already the extension has been delayed. It was once expected that a first group
would come forward, ready for entry by 2003. Now the more realistic date is
January 2005, and it is conceivable that Poland, the largest entrant, will not
be there. Poland's preparations for this immensely complex transition have not
been the speediest. Meanwhile, this hitherto undisputed entrant has found itself
the focus of a curmudgeonly reluctance to embrace full-hearted Europeanism.

The outs as well as the ins now find themselves unraveling the idealism that
once drove the great idea of Europe, and overlaying it with incessant, often
harsh, national objections. Making "Europe" never was a simple exercise. The
more elaborate it becomes, the greater the challenge it presents to political
leadership.


As a political project, Europe cannot survive unless integration grows deeper.
The practicalities of running a union of even 15 member nations require them to
cede more powers to a united center. The single currency probably cannot work
unless there is more collective economic government. How far this must go is
intensely disputed, not least by the British, who like to pretend, from their
stance outside the euro, that no such governance is needed. But it will be
needed, up to a point--a point that falls short of a United States of Europe,
but conforms to French President Jacques Chirac's "United Europe of States."

Equally, as a political ideal, Europe cannot survive if it excludes the center
and the east, much of the old communist world. Its destiny is breadth as well as
depth. But what it needs more than either of those elements is a revival of
popular excitement and understanding about what Europe can be. Only leaders can
make the case for all that Europe means, including the freedom to move around
the continent.

And they seem to have forgotten how to do so. As a result, the great experiment
falters. Who belongs, and what that means, have been reduced to questions for
bureaucrats, not idealists. And the instinct of European bureaucrats is the same
you find anywhere in the world: When in doubt, the answer is no.



Hugo Young is political columnist of the Guardian in London and the author of
"This Blessed Plot: Britain and Europe from Churchill to Blair" (Overlook
Press).





LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, JOHN COPELAND FOR The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              58 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    August 12, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

2 Accused of Immigration, Investment Fraud

Brooke A. Masters , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 774 words


The operators of a Herndon company that promised visas to hundreds of would-be
immigrants in exchange for cash investments of $ 100,000 to $ 150,000 have been
indicted on charges of immigration fraud, money laundering and misusing their
clients' money.

James A. Geisler, 47, and James F. O'Connor, 43, who were arrested late
Thursday, recruited foreigners for the little-known EB-5 visa program, which
gives green cards to aliens who invest $ 500,000 in an American business that
creates 10 jobs in a rural or poor area.

But their company, Interbank Group, told clients that they could qualify for the
program with just $ 100,000 to $ 150,000 in cash, according to a 61-count
indictment filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria. Interbank used a
complicated series of financial transactions to make it appear that their
clients had invested the full $ 500,000, the indictment said. Little money ever
was invested in American businesses.

All told, the indictment alleges, Geisler and O'Connor filed 320 false
applications on behalf of 270 people in 1997 and 1998. For some clients, the
company filed multiple applications, saying the money was being used to create
jobs in Florida or in Virginia and West Virginia.

O'Connor said yesterday that the indictments were politically motivated. He said
that the visa program had been used to funnel overseas campaign contributions to
the Democratic Party and that the company was being punished for using the
program for legitimate purposes.

"The indictment is part of an ongoing fight we are having with the INS," he
said. "They destroyed our business. . . . None of the indictment is true, and we
fully expect to be found innocent should this case go to trial."

Geisler could not be reached for comment.

Forty-three Interbank clients got temporary visas under the program, many of
which have been revoked. Other applications were suspended or denied after the
Immigration and Naturalization Service raided the company in August 1998.
Virtually all the clients lost their money, according to the indictment, and
more than a dozen have sued Interbank in Washington area federal and state
courts.

The news of the arrests "makes me feel good," said Mario Carbini, 55, an Italian
accountant who gave Interbank nearly $ 130,000 in his quest to become a U.S.
citizen. "I rushed to get into their program, and they were crooks."

John Partridge, a lawyer who won default judgments against Interbank on behalf
of two families, said: "Hopefully this will lead to [money being recovered]
because the FBI and the Justice Department have resources we do not. . . . These
were people that worked hard and put their life savings into this and never got
anything."

According to the indictment, Geisler and O'Connor were supposed to hold clients'
money in escrow, but instead they used it to pay themselves and cover
Interbank's expenses.

To deceive the INS about how much each immigrant had invested, Interbank
allegedly would transfer nearly $ 400,000 from a bank in the Bahamas to an
Interbank subsidiary in Virginia. There, Interbank would generate a report that
showed the required $ 500,000 balance in an applicant's account and then wire
the money back to the Bahamas, the indictment said.

Arraignment is scheduled for Aug. 21. At an initial appearance yesterday, both
men said they could not afford counsel, so U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa Carroll
Buchanan said she would appoint lawyers for them.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert A. Spencer said in court that both men could face
prison sentences stretching into the hundreds of years if they were convicted on
all counts and received the maximum penalties.

Both men have been charged with conspiracy, money laundering and immigration
fraud. O'Connor, of Broad Run, also faces charges of filing false tax returns.
Geisler, of Springfield, has been charged with bankruptcy fraud. The government
wants the pair to forfeit $ 17 million in assets.

Immigration officials hailed the indictment as a sign that the government will
not tolerate trafficking in green cards. "Visa fraud whether done on the streets
by selling fraudulent cards or through an elaborate financial scheme is against
the law and will be investigated and prosecuted," said INS District Director
Warren A. Lewis. But some of Interbank's alleged victims say the government is
partly to blame.

"I'm very very bitter with these guys, but also with the INS. If the INS hadn't
approved the program, I would never have given them my money," said Carbini, who
lives in California and says he does not have the money to start anew in another
country.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              59 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 18, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

Ghanaian Woman Wins Asylum

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Aug. 17


An immigration appeals court has granted asylum to a woman who fled Ghana out of
fear she would be forced to undergo genital mutilation for having had premarital
sex.

The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), in a Friday ruling made public today,
vacated its earlier order that would have forced Adelaide Abankwah, 29, to
return to the West African nation.

Although the Immigration and Naturalization Service allows women to claim
genital mutilation as a form of persecution and seek asylum in the United
States, the BIA had held that Abankwah had not proven that she would be
mutilated if she returned to Ghana.

But, last month, the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that Abankwah's
fears of genital mutilation were well-founded and ordered BIA to reconsider.

Abankwah was born into a small Ghanaian tribe in which her mother was the
tribe's "queen mother" who led religious rituals and set rules for other women.

After her mother died in 1996, Abankwah was chosen by tribal elders to be the
next queen mother. Abankwah, who had had sex with a boyfriend, refused. She also
refused to take part in rituals intended to determine if she was a virgin or to
enter into an arranged marriage.


NAME: ADELAIDE ABANKWAH

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              60 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 13, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

U.S., Cuba Discuss Immigration Pact; Washington and Havana at Odds on Smuggling,
Return of Illegal Migrants

Karen DeYoung, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 1211 words

DATELINE: HAVANA



Cuba says the United States promotes the smuggling of illegal immigrants by sea
to Florida even as it professes to want to stop the practice. Washington says
Havana impedes the legal emigration of Cuban physicians and other medical
personnel to the United States in violation of existing agreements.

While the fate of one small Cuban boy found floating off the Florida coast has
dominated relations between the two countries in recent weeks, they have a lot
more to talk about when they sit down here today for their regularly scheduled,
biannual meeting on immigration.

The meetings are held under a 1994 agreement to stem what was then an alarmingly
high rate of Cubans leaving the island to cross the Florida Straits in
unseaworthy craft. Many of them drowned, just like the mother of 6-year-old
Elian Gonzalez, who died along with nine other people when their small boat
capsized last month.

The agreement, and a 1995 addendum, specify that Cubans intercepted at sea by
the U.S. Coast Guard, with a few exceptions, will be returned to Cuba. The
United States also pledged to stop admitting "all Cuban migrants who reach U.S.
territory in irregular ways." Cuba promised to patrol its shores and waters to
discourage departures, and to take no reprisals against those brought back.

To make immigration more orderly, Washington agreed to admit at least 20,000
Cubans a year, many of them chosen by lottery, and Cuba agreed to facilitate
their departure.

The agreements are short and fairly simple. But the intrusion of politics,
ideology and mutual suspicion has complicated their implementation, with
problems arising as the always difficult relations between the two countries
reach periodic boiling points.

Many Cubans want to leave; that is indisputable. When the last visa lottery was
held in 1998, more than 500,000 of the island's 11 million people applied.
Between 1994 and 1998, 110,092 Cubans were admitted to the United States legally
under the accords.

It is the ones who continue to leave illegally that Havana wants to discuss in
this round of talks. Cuba maintains that the United States entices people to
make the perilous voyage by regularly broadcasting descriptions of the island's
economic deprivation on U.S. government radio. This is particularly irritating
to Havana, which says the U.S. economic embargo is a principal cause of that
deprivation. In addition, Cuba says that the new U.S. "wet feet-dry feet" policy
of allowing those Cubans who actually touch shore to stay is a specific
violation of the agreements.

That policy, said Ricardo Alarcon, president of the Cuban National Assembly and
chief Cuban negotiator in the talks, has promoted what both countries agree is a
rise in human smuggling.

"The most important issue we have to discuss, in my opinion, is smuggling,"
Alarcon said. Nowhere in the agreements "has the U.S. or Cuba said that those
who arrive there have guaranteed admission. In fact, the only reference is in
the opposite direction."

Cuba sees the case of the Gonzalez boy as valuable support for arguments made
during talks last spring. "Elian is an example of the extremes to which the
situation can go," Alarcon said. "If people weren't encouraged to land, they
would not be encouraged to leave like Elian's mother."

According to Dan Geohegan, assistant chief of the Miami region of the U.S.
Border Patrol, more than 2,000 Cubans have landed there illegally by boat this
year--nearly twice as many as in the four previous years combined. About 1,000
have been interdicted at sea by the U.S. Coast Guard and sent home this year.

Geohegan said the increase in illegal arrivals is largely due to the rise in
professional smugglers, usually Cuban Americans who he said collect $ 7,000 to $
9,000 from relatives in the United States to pick up passengers with speedboats
at clandestine spots along the Cuban coast.

The smugglers, he said, "have the same techniques as the drug smugglers. They
have Global Positioning Systems, cellular technology, night-vision goggles and
boats that sit low in the water to defeat the radar. They have everything the
doper has."

Existing U.S. law appears contradictory on whether illegally arriving Cubans are
allowed to stay. Under the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, all Cubans who reach the
United States, by any means, are eligible to be admitted. When questions were
raised after the 1994 and 1995 agreements seemed to say something different,
administration spokesmen pointed out that the 1966 act gives the attorney
general discretionary power over admissions. The accords say only that not "all"
will be allowed to stay, but do not say which ones will be.

In April, a "clarification" memo from Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner to INS field offices said that any Cuban national
otherwise eligible for admission under the 1966 act would not become ineligible
simply by arriving illegally, and would be entitled to all advantages given
other Cubans, including work permits and the opportunity to become a permanent
resident.

Current U.S. policy, as practiced by federal authorities in southern Florida, is
that those with "dry feet"--those who reach U.S. soil--may stay. The policy has
occasionally resulted in human tugs of war between federal authorities and Cuban
Americans trying to drag ashore people dropped by smugglers near the beach.

Alarcon charged that the United States has done little to apprehend and
prosecute alien smugglers, insisting that only one such case has been prosecuted
in U.S. courts. He said Cuba has more than 50 Cuban Americans in jail on
smuggling charges but the United States has not responded to an offer to turn
some of them over for U.S. prosecution.

U.S. officials said that the cases presented by Cuba would not have stood up in
American courts. At the same time, in an indication of how far apart the two
governments are on the basic facts of the situation, they said 43 smuggling
cases were successfully prosecuted in 1998.

While Cuba is determined to press the smuggling and admittance issues at the
talks, U.S. negotiators are equally determined to insist that Cuba keep its end
of the immigration bargain. U.S. officials who asked not to be named said that
Havana has refused to issue exit permits to medical personnel deemed essential
on the island, despite the fact that the accords make no provision for such
selective prohibitions.

U.S. officials said they also are concerned that reprisals are taken against
Cubans brought back by the Coast Guard. Under the agreements, U.S. consular
officials here try to visit every repatriated islander within six months to make
sure they are not being mistreated. Officials said they were concerned that some
of the Cubans were deprived of employment and that others were harassed by local
Communist Party organizations.



Staff researcher Robert Thomason contributed to this report.

One Cuban was found dead and seven were taken into custody last Monday after
they were allegedly smuggled on this boat to Golden Beach, Fla. Elian Gonzalez,
who was found floating off the Florida coast, rides a Walt Disney World carousel
with cousin Marisleysis Gonzalez. The boy's father wants him returned to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              61 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 8, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

43 Cubans Held After Dramatic Sea Chase

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 7



Federal agents detained 43 Cubans whose boat rammed and disabled a U.S. Border
Patrol vessel during a chase, and charged two of them with smuggling illegal
immigrants, the Border Patrol said.

Border Patrol and U.S. Coast Guard agents spotted the 32-foot vessel off
Islamorada in the Upper Keys late Thursday. They tried to intercept it,
suspecting it was smuggling immigrants, Border Patrol spokesman Joseph Mellia
said.

The boat rammed the Border Patrol vessel three times, disabling it, Mellia said.
Two passengers jumped off and were captured. A Coast Guard boat and a Monroe
County helicopter gave chase and rounded up the other 41 passengers after their
boat ran aground.

The boat was registered in Florida. The two men who are suspected of being the
captains and were arrested on smuggling charges are Cuban nationals who live in
Miami, Mellia said. The other 41 people were being held at an immigration
detention center and probably will be released pending further review, Mellia
said.


LOAD-DATE: July 08, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              62 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 7, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

For Illegals, Help From the Law; Fairfax Officers Assist Workers Cheated on the
Job

Michael Leahy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2087 words



He is no bleeding heart, just a cop, and so the story of this rip-off shouldn't
rankle him any more than any other scam, thinks Harry Foxwell. Except he can't
get it out of his head.

A Northern Virginia contractor drove a group of immigrant workers to Newport
News for several days of work, only to leave them unpaid and stranded, 170 miles
from home. "You believe that?" Foxwell says, grinding his shoe into the ground
as if tiny contractor vermin might be down there.

He's frustrated. Another group of immigrant laborers was taken to New Jersey and
fleeced. The workers won't come forward in either case, presumably because
they're illegal immigrants, says Foxwell, though this means nothing to him. He
just wants to help -- if they'll let him.

He patrols Culmore, a small pocket of Fairfax County where affluence is a
stranger and mistrust of authority a staple of survival. Just the mention of
three initials -- INS -- makes Culmore's jittery men glance over their shoulders
for immigration agents.

"You need to be careful of everybody with power -- police, too," said
24-year-old Walter Gonzalez, an undocumented worker from Central America who,
believing an employer stole from him last summer, did not trust the police
enough to seek help. "It's when you stop being careful and decide to relax that
somebody gets you and deports you."

That attitude echoes through Culmore, an overwhelmingly immigrant community
where people know not to pry into anyone's immigration status, where police
officers help the illegal immigrants who will allow it, and where Foxwell hunts
unscrupulous contractors because the neighborhood's welfare depends on it.
"Comes down to this," he said with characteristic bluntness: "If people who
barely have any money are getting stiffed when they should get paid, we have
more problems."

It's a familiar spiral: despair, drunkenness, domestic abuse, evictions. "People
start feeling angry and depressed, and that's when trouble starts," said
Foxwell, a Fairfax County officer whose superiors have empowered him to do what
he must to ensure that all Culmore workers get paid.

Said police Capt. Chuck Peters: "If people aren't getting their money or if
they're miserable because they can't support their families, then bad things can
happen. You can get reports of a man beating a spouse, a man turning to alcohol.
. . . We give resources and encouragement to officers like Harry Foxwell so he
can tackle root problems as he sees them."

The buzzword phrase for this is "community policing," and its emergence in
Culmore serves as one more bit of evidence that American policing, like American
politics, is increasingly local. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
have one agenda; Harry Foxwell has another: to keep peace in his community.

His techniques won't be found in any police handbook or legal statute. Foxwell
calls or visits employers accused of rip-offs, applying moral pressure,
capitalizing on the power of his badge to drag the reluctant to the bargaining
table.

Sometimes even this won't lure an apprehensive worker into the officer's office.
At 47, an 18-year fixture around Culmore and Baileys Crossroads, Foxwell is a
ruddy-faced man with a bushy gray mustache and no illusions.

"I know a lot of these workers are scared to talk to anybody in a uniform
because they think they're gonna get deported," he said. "I know that some
workers think about coming to see us but aren't sure it's safe. What I hope is
that word is getting out over there that we don't want to deport anybody."

"Over there" is the 7-Eleven parking lot in Culmore -- a huge, if unadmitted, ad
hoc hiring hall where Hispanic laborers assemble each morning to wait for
low-capital contractors who stay afloat on the backs of immigrant workers. The
parking lot is where honest and disreputable businessmen alike can find the
young Walter Gonzalez, who has heard "good things" about Foxwell and his
partner, but even so is leery about relating his own charge of exploitation.
Trust comes hard.

Dressed in a T-shirt, jeans and paint-dotted tennis shoes, Gonzalez stands amid
a hundred or so hopeful men. A van cruises past and the driver leans out,
gesturing at him. Their conversation is quick and furtive.

"Paint?" the man asks.

"I paint, si," Gonzalez says.

"Bueno, okay. Let's go."

"No have papers," says Gonzalez, wanting to make this clear, not needing to hear
any more excuses, several days into his labor, that he won't be paid because he
hasn't produced official authorization to work in the United States. "No
papers."

A little shrug from the man behind the wheel.

Federal law bars an employer from knowingly hiring an illegal immigrant. But in
the parking lot, staying discreet is a way of life. "Climb in," the man says.

Gonzalez absently fingers the small crucifix hanging around his neck, a gift
from his mother before he left home. To protect you, she'd said.

But it is getting harder to believe in special powers. He'd thought he was safe
in the shadows until what happened in July. After working several weeks for a
company that already had paid him $ 400 for painting, Gonzalez went to pick up
his pay for two more weeks, but was told, he said, that the company's expenses
had been so high there was nothing left.

Perhaps if he did two more painting jobs, he recalled being told, money would
become available. Later, the company would insist it never refused to pay him
but said he first would have to provide a Social Security number.

"They never asked for those things when they got me," Gonzalez said in Spanish.
"They know . . . I can't give them a Social Security number. They owe me a lot.
Seventy-three hours of my work at nine dollars an hour comes to $ 657."

He won't be stiffed like that again. So he repeats to this man in the parking
lot: "No papers."

"Climb in," the man says. Gonzalez does.

Residents of Culmore -- a hardscrabble community of 10,000, 85 percent of them
Hispanic -- typically live payday to payday.

Six months ago, stirred by a growing number of reports of workers being cheated,
Foxwell put out the word that he and his partner would investigate every charge,
regardless of the complainant's legal status. Their chief hurdle was gaining the
confidence of workers scared by federal watchdogs such as the Department of
Labor and the INS.

But Foxwell has won the trust of several, in part by guaranteeing that he won't
reveal identities. Employers, many of whom resent him as a practitioner of rogue
justice, question his legal authority to intervene in disputes that, on their
surface, appear to be civil matters.

"It's a fine line," said Peters, Foxwell's captain. "He's not to be out forcing
the collection of wages, [but] just trying to bring people to the table. . . .
These cases of nonpayment are happening quite a bit."

The black-market labor pool extends throughout the region. Three miles from
Culmore, in the Shirlington section of Arlington, another group of Hispanic
workers gathers daily. Stories of fleecing abound there as well, a problem
endemic to the immigrant labor pool.

Since 1990, a nonprofit group called Casa de Maryland has served as a hiring
hall for day workers in Silver Spring, requiring that employers comply with wage
and payment schedules. Casa represents about 100 workers daily, handles 300
cases annually and has collected more than $ 174,000 in back wages.

Culmore has nothing like Casa -- no hiring hall, no pro bono attorneys. Just
Foxwell.

"Before Harry, there was nobody," said Soledad Lyle, an administrator at the
Culmore Community Action Committee who translates for Foxwell.

The stories never stop coming, though the cultural divide is wide. When a
Salvadoran woman came seeking help, she adamantly refused to give her name,
expressing terror that the INS would find out. "I don't want you telling him
even where I live," she heatedly told Lyle.

Ultimately, the woman poured out her story of being cheated of her pay by a
custodial firm.

Foxwell's partner, Brad Carruthers, paid the boss a visit, listening to his side
of things before pronouncing judgment. "This lady worked for you and she's owed
$ 500, as far as I can tell," Carruthers, 29, later recalled saying. "I'm gonna
help her arrange for the paperwork so she can take you to civil court." The boss
wrote a check for $ 500 on the spot.

Some of Foxwell's targets, though, have not hidden their resentment over his
involvement, suggesting it smacks of coercion.

"How would you like it if a cop called you out of the blue trying to get a deal
for a laborer?" fumed landscaper Vinnie Korfonta.

Accused by an employee of failing to carry workers' compensation insurance,
Korfonta was indignant to hear from Foxwell. "Does he have the right to call?"
Korfonta asked. "What law have I broken?"

Korfonta insisted that the laborer -- an undocumented worker named Elmer Carias
who had broken his finger on the job and incurred more than $ 2,000 in hospital
bills -- had been brought in by a subcontractor. "I didn't even know him as
Elmer," Korfonta said. "He was always 'Jose' to me. 'Jose Number Two.' The
subcontractor is the one responsible."

The man Korfonta identified as the subcontractor, Juan Carlos Hurtado, 28,
expressed puzzlement. "I am just a worker like Elmer," he said. "Elmer brought
me to the job the first time. So how could I hire Elmer?"

When the parties finally sat down, Foxwell told Korfonta that Carias's medical
expenses and lost wages amounted to $ 2,600. Korfonta announced he wanted to
settle, offering the 47-year-old Carias $ 2,000.

When Carias pushed for more, Korfonta left. A frustrated Carias was advised he
could file a complaint with the Department of Labor, an option he rejected. "No,
no, no," he said, fearful that the INS might get involved.

Labor officials, sensitive to the fact that undocumented workers don't trust
them, vigorously deny they are hamstrung by the INS. They point to a 1998
agreement between the two that says Labor will not divulge the names of illegal
workers to the INS. However, INS officials emphasize that this does not mean
blanket immunity for illegal workers, particularly if the INS learns their
identity elsewhere.

"I'd have to make my clients aware that if they went to Labor, they still might
end up in [deportation] proceedings," said Janet Horman, a lawyer who heads
Culmore's Just Neighbors Ministry. "You can't be sure what happens when you open
that can of worms."

In July, Walter Gonzalez turned for help in getting his disputed $ 657 to Jon
and Joan Peters, the Falls Church couple whose home he helped paint for ACE
Professional Services. "They worked Walter and the others like dogs," said Jon
Peters, who paid ACE $ 1,200.

ACE is owned in part by Taekwondo instructor Young Won Rhee, who did not return
several calls from a reporter. But company official Tom Owens said ACE was
simply waiting for Gonzalez to supply a Social Security number.

Asked why Gonzalez was allowed to work several days without presenting one, ACE
lawyer Keith Moon said, "The company was nice enough to give him a job. . . .
Why didn't he give us the information? I can only assume it's because he didn't
have documentation."

According to Dennis Merrill, an official with the Virginia Department of Labor
and Industry, employers must pay wages regardless of whether an employee has
provided a Social Security number. "We don't get into immigration issues,"
Merrill said. "We will collect any wages not paid. . . . But the worker needs to
come to us."

The possibility of approaching a state agency also seemed risky to Gonzalez
("It's the government, right?"). His leeriness of officials extended to Foxwell,
who, as autumn arrived, tried finding volunteer lawyers while lobbying in his
crusty way for Culmore's angry and shortchanged to come forward.

There are good days and bad, small steps offset by maddening setbacks. Foxwell
passes along word that Korfonta has withdrawn his offer and is willing to see
Carias in court.

Then something happens that feels extraordinary at the Culmore Community Action
Committee. Tuesday afternoon, encouraged by what he has heard from Carias,
Gonzalez comes out of the shadows, shakes Foxwell's hand and dares to put his
trust in the officer.

"Elmer said he's great, so I come," Gonzalez says. "I gotta count on someone,
you know."

Foxwell simply leans forward, gruffly nodding at the translator, "Okay, have him
tell me his story."



LOAD-DATE: October 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              63 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 16, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

33 Illegal Workers Arrested at Pentagon; Latino Advocates Criticize Sweep That
Nets About One in Six of Those Checked

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 519 words




Federal agents have arrested 33 illegal immigrants at the Pentagon, about one in
six of the employees who were asked to produce work permits during a surprise
raid on construction crews hired for the building's $ 1.2 billion renovation,
officials said yesterday."

Authorities refused to identify companies that employed the immigrants arrested
in the Thursday raid. Agents are still investigating whether the firms knew they
had hired undocumented workers, officials said, adding that they will continue
to monitor the Pentagon's construction work force to determine whether others
are employed illegally.

Pentagon spokesman Glenn Flood said as many as 500 construction workers are
employed at various sites inside and outside the building on any given day.
Investigators with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and the
Defense Protective Service, the Pentagon's police force, examined the documents
of about 200 of them as they showed up for work, he said.

INS spokesman Josh Green said 29 of the 33 undocumented workers, who are from
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Nicaragua, have been
detained at the Pamunkey Regional Jail in Hanover, Va. They face deportation
hearings and possible prosecution for possession and use of fraudulent
documents, he said.

Three other workers were released because they have pending immigration cases,
Green said, and a fourth worker, a juvenile, was released to his family.

Flood said all workers on the project receive special passes from the Pentagon
allowing them into construction areas, but none had access to other parts of the
building. He said contractors submit Social Security numbers and other
information about workers to the Pentagon to obtain the passes.

The Pentagon did not conduct background checks on the workers. But Flood said
officers last month noticed that several of them were using the same Social
Security numbers and contacted the INS.

The renovation project, which includes the construction of a new building in one
of the Pentagon's parking lots, has been underway for several years, but this is
the first time the Pentagon and INS have scrutinized it for illegal workers.

Several community activists expressed concerns about the raid, saying workers
reported that the agents flushed them out of the building with a false alarm
about a bomb threat, then asked only Latino employees for proof of work
authorization.

"Obviously, there's not such a thing as a friendly raid, but they violated every
procedure in the book," said Jessica Alvarez, of the Council of Latino Agencies.

"We're concerned about whether they singled out all Latino workers in asking for
work permits," said Abel Nunez, president of the Organization of Salvadoran
Americans.

"That sounds like a civil rights violation. We're seeking more information."

Flood denied that agents used the ruse of a bomb threat during the operation,
saying workers were questioned as they punched in at a time clock.

INS spokeswoman Amy Otten said the agency did not violate any of its procedures
during the raid.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              64 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 14, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Steel Companies Subject of Grand Jury Probe; 17 Workers Arrested By INS on Nov.
3

Jennifer Lenhart, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: LOUDOUN EXTRA; Pg. V03

LENGTH: 561 words


The Sterling steel manufacturing companies where 17 undocumented workers were
arrested this month by the Immigration and Naturalization Service also are being
investigated by a federal grand jury, according to the companies' attorney.

The arrests were made Nov. 3 when the FBI and the Defense Department's criminal
investigative service executed a search warrant at Sibel Ayse Halac Iron Works
Inc. and Halac Enterprises in Sterling. The INS was asked to participate after
the FBI determined that foreign nationals were likely to be present, according
to a statement released by the INS.

The FBI and Defense Department's investigative unit are examining both companies
and their officers for possible criminal violations, the INS statement said. An
FBI spokeswoman did not return calls seeking comment.

The companies' attorney, Stanley Reed, of Lerch, Early and Brewer in Bethesda,
said he had not been told what the grand jury investigation was about.

"It's a grand jury investigation," Reed said. "At this stage, I'm not sure what
it's about."

Marie Parker, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Alexandria, said she
could neither confirm nor deny that an investigation was under way. The
proceedings of grand jury investigations are secret, and the materials that are
reviewed are unavailable for review by the public.

It was unclear when the grand jury investigating Halac would conclude its work.
Grand jury investigations can last from a few weeks to several years.

Ahmet Halac, president of both companies, said he could not elaborate on the
raid or the investigation.

"I had no knowledge of anything, and we have done nothing wrong," Halac said. "I
don't know any reason why this happened."

Halac, who lives in Ashburn Village, said he founded the companies more than
eight years ago to manufacture structural steel. He would not disclose the
number of people he employs or any other details, referring inquiries to Reed.

"I have no knowledge of any of the numbers," Halac said, adding that Reed is
"getting the details."

The Halac companies are housed in corrugated steel warehouse-style buildings in
an industrial area on a wooded road off Route 28 near Dulles International
Airport. Employees leaving the gated property Thursday declined to comment on
their work or the INS arrests.

The 17 undocumented workers who were arrested Nov. 3 were taken to the INS field
office in Alexandria, according to the INS statement.

Thirteen of the employees could be deported for violating immigration laws, said
INS spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs. Three others were released after the INS
determined that they have active applications seeking benefits under the U.S.
Immigration and Nationality Act.

The other employee was detained for failure to have immigration documents in his
possession. The employee, who is a native of Cyprus, was released after agents
determined that he had proper documentation, Fobbs said.

The employees who are facing possible deportation come from El Salvador, Mexico,
Honduras, Guatemala and Hungary. Fobbs said they are being "processed to see
whether a bond will be issued on their behalf."

After that, she said, deportation could occur quickly. "They may very well be
subject to immediate removal from the U.S.," Fobbs said.

Staff writer Maria Glod contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              65 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 17, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Unions Reverse On Illegal Aliens; Policy Seeks Amnesty, End to Sanctions

Frank Swoboda , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 16


In a significant policy shift, organized labor today called for amnesty for an
estimated 6 million illegal immigrants and repealing current law that imposes
sanctions on employers that hire them.

Labor helped enact the original sanctions program 15 years ago as part of the
last major amnesty under the federal immigration act, and business lobbyists
reacted favorably today to the policy resolution, which was approved unanimously
by the AFL-CIO executive council.

The AFL-CIO's announcement coincides with an extremely tight job market, with
labor unions finding that their best chance to boost union membership is among
recent immigrants. An estimated 40 percent of the population growth in the 1990s
has been the result of immigration, the bulk of it legal. Other estimates
indicate as many as 20 percent of the entrants to the work force last year were
immigrants, in occupations as diverse as meatpacking, construction and computer
science.

The AFL-CIO said it would continue its opposition to the proliferation of
guest-worker programs that have allowed a variety of corporations to bring
skilled workers into the country, particularly in high-tech industries.
Officials said they want fewer guest-worker programs and greater scrutiny of
claims by corporations that they can not find appropriate workers in the United
States.

Still, the broader policy shift represents a remarkable turnaround for the
American labor movement and points it back toward its roots, when the sons and
daughters of turn-of-the-century immigrants became the leaders of the nation's
industrial union drive in the 1930s.

"I think we've really come full circle," said John Wilhelm, president of the
Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union, where 75 percent of the
250,000-strong membership are immigrants. "The labor movement is on the side of
immigration in this country. The goal is to make it clear which side the labor
movement is on."

Business lobbyists called the labor plan a positive step.

"It's a welcome embrace of amnesty from an employer's perspective, since we do
have a shortage of workers in this country and will continue to have a shortage
of workers for several decades," said Bruce Josten, executive vice president of
the U.S. Chamber of Congress. Josten and Ali Cleveland, the chamber's manager of
labor policy, said concerns about a shortage of high-tech workers have spread to
industries such as the hotel and restaurant business.

Lee Culpepper, senior vice president of the National Restaurant Association,
said he was encouraged that labor "recognizes that there are problems with the
current system" and said, "I think that the AFL-CIO position is significant, but
it is just one step toward what should be broader reform."

On Capitol Hill, though, at least one key member of Congress on immigration
issues, Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the Judiciary Committee's
subcommittee on immigration, called labor's announcement a cynical ploy.

"What a betrayal of American workers," Smith said. "Apparently union bosses are
so distraught about declining enrollments they will stoop to exploiting illegal
workers."

Union leaders, who plan to hold public forums starting in April to build support
for the plan, were quick to stress today that they were not advocating a new
open-border policy. Instead, they said, they were trying to fix an immigration
policy that clearly wasn't working.

The labor proposal outlined today has three basic components: an end to the "I-9
Employers Sanctions" program, which penalizes employers who hire illegal
immigrants; amnesty for illegal immigrants now living in the United States; and
the granting of full workplace rights to prevent intimidation and exploitation
of illegal workers.

The AFL-CIO would leave the business of tracking down illegal immigrants to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. But it said it would not not take
employers completely off the hook.

In exchange for taking the onus off employers for enforcing the immigration
laws, the labor federation would impose criminal penalties against employers
that knowingly hired an illegal immigrant and then used the worker's legal
status with the INS as a weapon for imposing substandard wages or working
conditions.

Once the proposed amnesty program expires--the AFL-CIO did not propose a time
frame--new illegal immigrants would be on their own in the workplace. If they
were caught by the INS they would be deported, under labor's plan. But those
same workers could get amnesty if they blow the whistle on an employer hiring
illegal immigrants and imposing substandard or sweatshop conditions.

Although the plan calls for eventual amnesty for as many 6 million people, the
AFL-CIO proposed immediate amnesty for the half-million Salvadorans,
Guatemalans, Hondurans and Haitians who fled their countries in the 1980s and
early 1990s and have been denied refugee status. In addition, the unions want
immediate amnesty for 350,000 long-term resident immigrants they claim were
denied legal status because of INS improprieties in the last amnesty program.
Labor also wants immediate amnesty for 10,000 Liberians who fled to this country
during the civil war in their homeland.


Staff writer Martha Hamilton contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              66 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 4, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

AFL-CIO Changes Tune on Immigrant Workers; Leaders Seek Amnesty For
Undocumented, Anti-Exploitation Laws

William Claiborne, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 957 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 3


The national leadership of organized labor, which for years has warily viewed
immigrant workers as a threat to hard-won union jobs and wages, today told the
most vulnerable members of America's work force--the undocumented alien
workers--that it cares more about union cards than green cards.

In an unusual forum, top AFL-CIO officials called for new laws that would
criminalize employer exploitation of undocumented workers and grant amnesty and
permanent residency to working immigrants who are in the country illegally.

The union leaders' assertions were in sharp contrast to positions the federation
had held since the mid-1980s, when it pushed for federal sanctions against
employers who hire illegal immigrants and openly expressed concerns about
immigrant workers poaching jobs and driving up unemployment.

Linda Chavez-Thompson, AFL-CIO executive vice president, said the trade union
umbrella organization underwent a dramatic change when its executive council
decided in February that "we are on the side of working people everywhere,"
whether they came to this country 400 years ago on slave ships, 100 years ago
through Ellis Island in New York Harbor or a year ago across the Mexican border.

"We need strong criminal penalties against employers who trample on immigrant
workers' rights, and we need a new amnesty program to provide legal status to
all who contribute to their community," Chavez-Thompson declared to the applause
of union members.

Later, in an interview, she conceded that labor leaders have "a lot of educating
to do" among many rank-and-file members to overcome the lingering bias against
immigrant workers. But she said most trade unionists are proud of the movement's
tradition throughout American history of welcoming immigrants and are inclined
toward outrage when they hear stories of social injustices.

Besides, she said, if immigrant workers suddenly disappeared, they would leave
behind 5 million to 6 million of the "hottest, stinkiest, dirtiest,
lowest-paying jobs there are--jobs that most American workers would not want
anyway."

In an effort to stoke the union members' sense of social justice, the AFL-CIO
presented a dozen Midwest immigrant workers at today's forum in a Plumbers Union
hall here, the third in a series of such nationwide gatherings aimed at
burnishing labor's image among immigrants. The federation recently increased its
organizing efforts among workers such as janitors, hotel maids, laundry workers
and other service employees.

Eliseo Chavez, an undocumented Chicago day laborer who said he recently crossed
from Mexico, described how some job brokers demand that immigrants work eight
hours under one name and then another eight hours under another name, so the
employer can avoid having to pay overtime. He also said that workers injured on
the job are denied workers' compensation and are threatened with dismissal if
they complain.

"Amnesty is very important, whether you are here two weeks or 10 years, because
if you don't have documents you are exploited," Chavez said.

Similar exploitation was described by Alejandro Zepeda, a laundry worker here
who said that he and his co-workers live in constant fear of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and that their employer uses that fear to exploit them.
Zepeda said that if the employer discovers an employee's Social Security number
is invalid, he sometimes will fire the employee and then rehire him or her at
the minimum wage and with no benefits to circumvent years of seniority.

Carmen Najera, an immigrant worker at the same laundry, said she lives with the
constant threat of sexual harassment by supervisors and is too afraid of being
turned over to the INS to complain. "They see us as easy prey because we are
undocumented and don't speak English," Najera said through an interpreter.

Throughout the forum, AFL-CIO leaders stressed that abandoning immigrant workers
to employer exploitation would be turning labor's back to human rights, which in
the long run would undermine all working people.

"This is not an immigrant issue; it's a civil rights issue," Gloria T. Johnson,
president of the Coalition of Labor Union Women, told the cheering crowd of 500
unionists and community organizers. "The same strategy is used by employers
against African Americans, those of different sexual orientation and women.

"As we fight in our communities, we should reach out to all of these groups and
bring them into the fight for the rights of all workers," she added.

Joe Hansen, secretary-treasurer of the 1.4-million-member United Food and
Commercial Workers Union, said that U.S. immigration policy has been
"privatized" to allow employers to "import, exploit and, in effect, deport
immigrant workers at will."

Hansen said that, like the Polish, Italian and other European immigrants who
poured into Chicago a century ago to work in the packing plants, immigrants from
Asia and Latin America are working the processing lines of the packing industry
across the country.

"The solution to the problems of immigrant workers today is the same as a
hundred years ago: organize, organize, organize," Hansen said.

A similar theme was sounded by Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.), who said the
labor movement is on the "threshold of incredible change" but that the change is
part of an old struggle. That struggle, he said, is "the same struggle the Irish
can tell you about in the 1860s in Chicago's slaughterhouses . . . that the
Polish and the Italians can tell you about, too.

"What they always try to do is divide us," Gutierrez added. "But we are coming
together . . . and we will protect the working rights of all men and women,
regardless of their immigration status."

LOAD-DATE: June 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              67 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   January 5, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cuba Wants INS Ruling On Boy's Legal Status; Official Says Father Needs U.S.
Assurance

Karen DeYoung, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 645 words


A senior Cuban official said yesterday that there is no point in Juan Miguel
Gonzalez's traveling to Miami to pick up his 6-year-old son, Elian, without
public U.S. assurance that Gonzalez will be able to take the boy home.

Ricardo Alarcon, president of the Cuban legislature, insisted that Gonzalez is
free to do as he chooses. But he said that neither Gonzalez nor the Cuban
government is interested in a U.S. proposal for Gonzalez to come to Miami to
ease the boy's removal from the custody of relatives there until the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service issues a formal ruling on the boy's
status.

"It's one thing to cooperate in the actual implementation of a solution,"
Alarcon said in a telephone interview from Havana. But with a final INS decision
pending, he said, U.S. officials who proposed the trip "are inviting us to cross
a bridge that doesn't exist."

His comments were the latest volley in a tense standoff between the two
governments. Leaders of both countries maintain they want to resolve the
six-week-old controversy, but neither will commit to a course of action until
the outcome is assured.

U.S. officials inquired late last week whether Havana would allow Gonzalez to
travel to Miami to pick up the boy--who was rescued from the Atlantic on Nov. 25
after his mother and nine others died when the small boat in which they had fled
Cuba capsized. The INS released him into the custody of his exile relatives in
Miami, who have rejected entreaties from the divorced father and the Cuban
government to send him home.

Although the INS is expected to rule that the father should decide what happens
to his son, Elian has become a poster child for the large anti-Castro Cuban
community in Miami, which has vowed to fight to keep him in this country.

U.S. authorities decided last weekend that the best chance of avoiding a court
challenge to the anticipated INS decision, as well as a more spontaneous
confrontation with exiles on the streets of Miami, was for the father to appear
in Miami to claim the boy.

The INS insists it is still studying the matter, but a State Department
spokesman said yesterday, "We expect a decision in the near future." In the
meantime, the spokesman said, "We would welcome [Gonzalez's] application for a
non-immigrant visa and are prepared to expedite it" once the Cuban government
issues him an exit permit.

Gonzalez has said repeatedly that he has no interest in traveling to Miami and
that he believes the United States has the legal responsibility to return the
boy with no action on his part. Spokesmen for the Miami relatives have said that
Gonzalez, who has a second wife and infant in Cuba, is being forced into taking
a hard line by the Cuban government.

Alarcon said yesterday that the decision is up to Gonzalez and left open the
possibility that he would travel to Miami once the issue of Elian's status is
resolved. But, he said, Gonzalez has no interest in becoming involved in a
protracted legal process with the exiles, or in helping the U.S. government find
an easy way out of the situation.

While Washington says Havana does not understand democratic legal procedures,
Havana believes Washington is dragging its feet out of fear of the politically
powerful Cuban exile community.

"If I were the father and they had taken away my daughter and refused even to
promise me they would give her back, when they came to ask me to help them do
what they should have done in the beginning, I would demand first of all to have
a clear commitment, a clear decision," Alarcon said. "Then I could cooperate."

The two governments, he said, "are in practically permanent contact" over the
issue. "I'm sure cooperation can be found to resolve the difficulty after this
famous decision is taken."

Elian Gonzalez now attends school in Miami, where he lives with relatives.

LOAD-DATE: January 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              68 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   January 13, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Reno Discounts Ruling on Elian; Fla. Court Has No Standing, Lawyers for Miami
Relatives Told

Karen DeYoung; Sue Anne Pressley, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 730 words


Attorney General Janet Reno said yesterday that a Florida court order granting
temporary custody of Elian Gonzalez to his great-uncle in Miami "has no force or
effect" on a federal government decision that the 6-year-old should be returned
to his Cuban father.

In a letter to attorneys for Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle who is seeking to
keep the boy in this country, Reno also said she saw no reason for reversing
last week's Immigration and Naturalization Service ruling.

The question of who has legal authority to speak for the child regarding his
immigration status in this country "remains one of federal, not state, law,"
Reno said. If the relatives want to challenge the INS decision, she said, the
Justice Department is prepared to litigate the matter in federal court.

But Reno's letter, while continuing to call on relatives to cooperate, gave no
indication of how INS intends to enforce its ruling. In the meantime, she said
an INS deadline for compliance Friday had been extended, and said there was no
intention to forcibly remove the boy from the Miami home of his great-uncle.

In response to the letter, Spencer Eig, an attorney for the boy's Miami
relatives, said, "The government continues to deny Elian his legal and
constitutional rights." He said the custody order by Miami-Dade Circuit Court
Judge Rosa Rodriguez was "based on protecting Elian from imminent harm" if he is
returned to Cuba.

Elian has been the subject of a tug of war between his father in Cuba--who wants
him sent home--and relatives in Miami--who want him to stay in Florida--since he
was found adrift in the Atlantic Ocean on Nov. 25.

Both in their Florida court petition, and in federal asylum claims, the
attorneys for the Miami relatives had argued that returning Elian "to Fidel
Castro's communist regime . . . would place [him] in an environment which will
cause the child's mental and emotional [and] physical health to be significantly
impaired . . . [and] he would be deprived of food, clothing, shelter and medical
treatment."

Reno said that neither the attorneys, nor Lazaro Gonzalez, had any standing to
seek asylum for Elian, since the INS had decided that only his father could
represent him. In any case, she said, while the law allowed for asylum on the
basis of "possible torture or persecution in the child's home country," the INS
had "found no objective basis" for such a conclusion.

The Justice Department, while rejecting state court intervention, is eager to
see the matter brought before a federal court, where it is confident of
prevailing. Eig said such action would be taken "in the near future, after
observing Martin Luther King Jr. Day" next Monday.

Officials in Washington puzzled yesterday over the holiday reference, some
speculating that the attorneys were merely delaying, while others suggested that
Miami's Cuban American community was trying to placate African Americans and
Haitians there who have long protested what they see as special immigration
treatment for Cubans and who have been increasingly disgruntled over the ongoing
dispute.

One indication of the volatilefeelings in south Florida came when a Miami
television station, WPLG, on Tuesday night broadcast footage of Elian and a
friend playing. An airplane passes overhead and Elian, looking up, is heard to
say in Spanish, "Yo quiero que tu me regresas a Cuba," or "I want you to take me
back to Cuba," the station said. Off camera, adults can be heard saying "No,
no," amid some scattered applause.

The report caused an immediate upheaval because many relatives and supporters
have maintained Elian wants to stay in the United States. But when the passage
was rebroadcast on the city's Spanish-language stations this morning, emotional
callers were divided among those who agreed with the station's translation and
those who insisted Elian had really said "Yo quiero que no me regresas a Cuba,"
or, "I don't want you to take me back to Cuba."

The station submitted the passage to numerous linguistic experts and native
speakers yesterday, and, as protesters including Rep. Iliana Ros-Lehtinen
(R-Fla.) gathered outside the station, even played the passage for passersby
before a live camera on the street. It concluded in its evening broadcast that
it was impossible to be certain.

Pressley reported from Miami; DeYoung from Washington.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              69 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   January 26, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Elian to Meet With His Grandmothers Today; Agreement Comes After INS Threatens
6-Year-Old's Status

Karen DeYoung; Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1179 words


Florida relatives of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez agreed last night to bring the
boy to a meeting with his Cuban grandmothers in a "neutral location" in Miami
today, after the federal government threatened Elian's immigration status in
this country.

Justice Department officials said that grandmothers Raquel Rodriguez and Mariela
Gonzalez, who spent yesterday in Washington, would return to Miami for the 4
p.m. meeting. Under the agreement, they will visit with Elian alone, with no
time restriction, at the home of the president of Barry University, a local
Catholic college.

Relatives in Miami, who have refused to send Elian home to his Cuban father
despite an Immigration and Naturalization Service ruling early this month,
received reassurances that "no Cuban officials" would be present and that the
grandmothers understood "it was only a visit and Elian would not be leaving with
them," according to U.S. government officials. Officials also told the relatives
that after the meeting Elian he would return to the house in Miami's Little
Havana where he has been staying.

Although an INS letter to attorneys representing the Miami relatives had set a
3:30 p.m. deadline yesterday for them to respond, it was not until evening that
the agreement was struck.

While they waited, the grandmothers visited sympathetic legislators on Capitol
Hill and urged Congress not to force citizenship on Elian. President Clinton
said he would not rule out a veto of a citizenship bill, saying that "at a
minimum, I would like to see this court case played out before the Congress
takes action."

Political momentum on the Elian controversy was slowed somewhat yesterday by the
snowstorm that kept much of Washington home from work. The Justice Department
put off for at least a day asking the U.S. District Court in Miami for expedited
consideration of a federal lawsuit filed by the Florida relatives.

In Congress, meetings in which lawmakers planned to devise strategies to support
or oppose citizenship bills were delayed. But an informal survey of some members
in the House and Senate indicated that opinion on the matter was divided,
despite strong support from the leadership in both chambers. Sponsors of bills
introduced Monday said their goal was to take the case out of the hands of the
INS and allow it to be decided by a Florida family court.

Yesterday's INS ultimatum, sent in a letter to attorneys for the Miami
relatives, came after a tense standoff Monday between the relatives and
grandmothers, who had traveled to Miami hoping to meet with Elian.

Lazaro Gonzalez, the boy's paternal great-uncle with whom he has been living
since he was rescued from a Thanksgiving week shipwreck in which his mother
drowned, said the meeting could take place only in his Little Havana home, where
dozens of relatives had gathered and hundreds were demonstrating in the streets.

The grandmothers insisted on a neutral location--at one point suggesting the
home of another great-uncle. The Miami family rejected that offer, and Lazaro
Gonzalez told the women by cell phone that "this is Elian's new home now,"
sources said.

After a five-hour wait, the women left, flying back to Washington aboard a plane
chartered by their U.S. sponsors, the National Council of Churches.

The sharply worded INS letter recounted the events of Monday and said the INS
was "obliged to direct Lazaro Gonzalez to make Elian available for a visit with
his grandmothers" at 4 p.m. Wednesday at the Miami Beach home of Dominican
Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin.

The letter noted that Elian had been "temporarily paroled into the United
States," pending an inspection interview with the child by INS authorities,
which must take place before INS can enforce its Jan. 4 order that he be
reunited with his father. It also said that regulations authorized the
government to "place conditions" on that parole. Failure to respond, the INS
said, "will be construed as a refusal to make Elian available for the meeting
and as a breach of Elian's parole."

U.S. officials said that they had been prepared to ask for an emergency federal
court order to force the hearing if the relatives did not agree.

While a small minority of politicians have been outspoken in their support for
keeping Elian in the United States, both Republicans and Democrats are deeply
divided on the subject.

Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-Calif.), who represents a swing district in San Diego,
criticized his party's leadership for being quick to support congressional
intervention in Elian's case.

"I think a lot of people in this country know he would live a more prosperous
and freer life in the United States, but I think part of this family values is
the father," Bilbray said. "There's a whole lot of my colleagues who want to
pander on this issue."

Several conservative Republicans, such as Steve Largent (Okla.) and Robert W.
Goodlatte (Va.), also support returning the boy to Cuba on the basis of parental
rights.

But John Feehery, spokesman for House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.), said,
"We support what's doing the best thing for this child, which is getting it to
the courtroom so it can be completed with due process."

Though polls indicate a majority of Americans support sending Elian back to his
father, Republicans said lawmakers who oppose it feel strongly enough that they
would not bow to public opinion.

If they became law, the bills introduced in the Senate by Connie Mack and in the
House by Bill McCollum, both Florida Republicans, would mark the first time an
individual had been naturalized by act of Congress. A separate bill, introduced
by House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Robert Menendez (N.J.), would give Elian
permanent residency. Menendez said he hoped his bill could attract "a broader
base of support" than the citizenship legislation.

But other Democrats are fiercely opposed to both bills. Rep. Charles B. Rangel
(D-N.Y.), who yesterday introduced a sense of Congress resolution that Elian
should be reunited with his father, said lawmakers who vote for the two
citizenship measures "would want to show they're against communism, dictatorship
and Castro, and the kid would still be a pawn."

Sen. Christopher J. Dodd (Conn.), one of several Democrats who hosted the
grandmothers in bipartisan meetings yesterday, said that the Republican
leadership "is elevating this thing to a pathetic level."

"Whatever one feels about Fidel Castro," Dodd said, supporters of keeping Elian
in this country "are allowing their hatred for an old man in Cuba to interfere
with the love of a father and a son."


Staff writer Sue Anne Pressley contributed to this report from Miami.

Elian Gonzalez, 6, is scheduled to meet today with his grandmothers at the home
of the president of a Catholic college in Florida. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee
(D-Tex.) comforts Mariela Gonzalez, left, after meeting with her and Elian
Gonzalez's other grandmother, Raquel Rodriguez, right, at her Capitol Hill
office. Congressional debate continued to flourish on what to do about the boy.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              70 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 31, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Gore Backs Bill On Elian Status; Candidate Breaks With Clinton, Favors Residency
for Boy, Family

Sue Anne Pressley; John F. Harris , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1544 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 30



With tensions fast rising in Florida over the fate of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez,
the case vaulted into the presidential campaign today as Vice President Gore
endorsed special legislation that would grant permanent resident status to the
boy, his father and other family members now living in Cuba.

In a dramatic break with his own administration, and in defiance of President
Clinton's pleas that the legal dispute be kept out of the political arena, Gore
declared in a statement that "our immigration laws may not be broad enough" to
achieve a just resolution in the Gonzalez case. If Congress were to pass the
legislation, it would move the case from the jurisdiction of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to a Florida family court.

If the father prevails in family court, he would have the right to return Elian
to Cuba.

Gore's entry into the controversy--which won praise, albeit barbed, from
Republican presidential rival George W. Bush--came as an impasse continued
between attorneys for the Miami relatives who now have custody of Elian and the
INS over an agreement to turn the boy over. Hours of negotiations here ended
with only an agreement to put off more talks until Monday. The surprise
announcement on Wednesday that Elian's father was ready to come here led to more
complicated negotiations and further delay, government officials said.

One of the lawyers for the Miami relatives, Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, said the INS
had agreed to extend the deadline for reaching an agreement until 9 a.m.
Tuesday.

The INS has ruled that the shipwreck survivor, whose mother died trying to flee
Cuba, should be returned to the island to live with his father. INS officials
want a written pledge from the Miami relatives that they will turn the boy over
if they lose their court appeals of the INS decision. They also want the
relatives to agree that there could be a change in custody during the appeals
process.

Those points have prompted an extraordinary show of defiance here against the
Clinton administration, with many state and local officials standing clearly
with the Miami relatives and their allies in the politically potent Cuban exile
community in South Florida.

With larger and more vocal rallies among Miamians who want Elian to stay here,
almost two dozen elected officials here have said they would hold Attorney
General Janet Reno and Clinton responsible should violence occur.

Gore is backing an idea introduced in various bills whose sponsors include Rep.
Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) and Sens. Bob Graham (D-Fla.) and Robert C. Smith
(R-N.H.). Backers say that, in addition to moving jurisdiction of the case to a
family court, the legislation would, by granting permanent resident status to
Elian's father and other relatives, allow the father to express his wishes about
where he wants to live without the possibility of coercion from Cuban dictator
Fidel Castro's regime.

The father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, has said he wants to live with his son in
Cuba. His attorney today initiated the process for him to travel to the United
States.

Campaigning in Wisconsin, Bush said: "I'm glad the vice president has seen the
wisdom of the way, and what he ought to do is convince the attorney general and
the president to accept the same position. . . . We'll see what kind of
influence he has in this administration."

Gore aides informed Clinton aides today of the vice president's decision to
break with the president, who has urged letting the case move through the
judicial and administrative processes without interference from politics. White
House aides reacted with a measure of disdain, but hardly surprise, at what was
interpreted as a strictly self-protective gesture by Gore. Democratic sources
said Gore's political team feared the Elian case could badly undermine their
prospects in Florida, an electorally rich state where Gore wants to win or at
least force Bush to devote significant campaign resources.

Gore aides denied that the vice president's statement was motivated by politics.
They said he has long been concerned that the immigration law under which
Elian's fate has been argued is governed by concerns over diplomatic precedent
rather than what is best for the boy.

Pressed repeatedly on the Elian issue, Gore has resisted saying how the custody
battle should be resolved, while taking pains to avoid sounding sympathetic to
allowing the boy to live in Cuba. In today's statement, he said: "The real fault
in this case lies with the oppressive regime of Fidel Castro. Elian should never
have been forced to choose between freedom and his own father."

Gregory B. Craig, the Washington attorney for the boy's father, tried to apply
today for visas for the father, his second wife and four-month-old son, and "a
favorite cousin" of Elian's. But State Department officials said the request
needs to come through the U.S. diplomatic mission in Havana. They forwarded the
information to Havana and said that if Gonzalez and his family apply, they would
get expedited consideration.

The legislation supported by Gore would grant permanent residency to Elian's
grandmothers and a grandfather as well as his immediate family.

In a surprise live announcement on Cuban television Wednesday night, President
Castro said the father and a large entourage would be willing to come here while
Elian's court appeal is played out, saying it would ease the child's
"readaptation" to his former life.

Craig said he also will be seeking permission for "a support group" of
physicians, psychologists, teachers and a dozen of Elian's Cuban schoolmates to
accompany the father. But he warned of another condition that Miami relatives
may not want to meet.

"He needs only to be told: If he comes here, he will in fact be given custody of
his son," Craig said.

If Juan Miguel Gonzalez were to come to Miami, the Justice Department would
transfer custody of Elian to him here for the duration of the appeals process, a
department official said.

Miami-Dade Mayor Alex Penelas, appearing on a host of television news programs
today, attempted to clarify a public statement he made Wednesday that local law
enforcement agencies would not assist federal officials who might come to get
the boy, saying that of course the local officers would work to control traffic,
crowds and possible violence.

Still, Penelas, backed by 20 other local politicians, did not retreat from his
contention that the federal government has been "provoking" South Florida's
Cuban exile community by threatening to remove the child from the Miami home of
his great-uncle, where he has lived for four months since his rescue at sea.

In gentler terms, Gov. Jeb Bush (R) and state Attorney General Bob Butterworth
(D) appealed in a letter to Reno to "intervene so that all sides--including the
federal government--can step back from the heat of the moment and take a more
reflective view of the situation."

At her weekly news conference today, Reno, a Miami native who until her
appointment as attorney general served as Miami-Dade district attorney, disputed
charges of "strong-arm" tactics by federal officials. Speaking for several
minutes without her usual briefing script, an obviously emotional Reno reminded
reporters that the INS has several times delayed action to send the boy to Cuba,
despite backing from the Clinton administration and now a federal judge for his
return. Last week, U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore upheld the INS decision
to return the boy to his father, a ruling the Miami relatives appealed Monday in
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta.

"This case has been heartbreaking for everybody involved," Reno said. "But we
believe that the law is clear. The father must speak for the little boy because
the sacred bond between parent and child must be recognized and honored, and
Elian should be reunited with his father."

Reno referred to the statements Wednesday by Penelas and other officials, saying
that the Cuban community "came to this country seeking a democratic society in
which to live, where all people can speak, and there are processes and
procedures for people to be heard. I don't think they came to this country to
incite violence."

But City of Miami Mayor Joe Carollo, who was among those most outspoken at the
mayors' news conference Wednesday--especially about local police remaining aloof
from any seizure of Elian--said today he does not regret his statements.

"If this was a case where we were talking about this boy being sent back to
Saddam Hussein's Iraq or to Hitler's old Germany, there would be nothing to talk
about. Our federal government would've said no," said Carollo, who came to the
United States at age 6 as part of the Catholic Church's Peter Pan program, which
sent 14,000 Cuban children here.

He denied that politicians are pandering to Cuban exile interests.

"The Cuban American community is a law-abiding community," he said, "but we have
learned the American way of politics."


Pressley reported from Miami, Harris from Washington. Staff writers Lorraine
Adams in Washington and Karen DeYoung in Florida, staff researcher Lynn Davis
and special correspondent Catharine Skipp in Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              71 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      April 9, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Elian: A Way Out

Alexander Aleinikoff; Paul W. Virtue

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 835 words


No one can be happy at the thought of federal agents wrenching a 6-year-old boy
from the arms of caring relatives. Neither can Americans who believe in a rule
of law tolerate mob action to keep a young son from the arms of a loving father.

For weeks, the parties have been tangled in "negotiations." Yet the idea that
the Miami family has something to negotiate strikes us as peculiar. Elian's
tragic arrival made placement with relatives sensible. But it was solely for the
purpose of caring for him while the INS made a determination under the
immigration laws. The temporary arrangement imposes responsibilities, not
rights, on the family. The Miami relatives, however, are acting as if possession
is nine-tenths of the law.

Surprisingly, so is the INS. The commissioner's decision in January that Elian
should be reunited with his father was accompanied by neither an order nor a
plan to accomplish that result. After the district court had ruled in its favor,
the INS threatened to revoke the custody arrangement unless the relatives agreed
to an expedited appeal and guaranteed that they would turn Elian over once the
appellate court had ruled.

The INS's demand looked coercive. More important, it was unnecessary. The
attorney general has complete authority to determine the boy's placement during
the immigration proceedings. Were the relatives to sign a piece of paper, they
would simply be affirming what is already their legal duty: to comply with the
orders of the attorney general.

The fruitless negotiations are a result of the federal government's fervent
desire not to have to take Elian by force. The relatives have exploited this by
saying they would not bring Elian elsewhere to be turned over, but would not
disobey an order delivered to their door. If there were any goodwill, this would
be an easy obstacle to overcome. For example, a third party--perhaps a respected
religious leader--could help bring about the boy's transfer. But the Miami
relatives are not seeking a compromise. They have raised new objections on an
almost daily basis--the most recent being a demand that Elian be evaluated by
psychologists to determine if a transfer would be in his best interests.

The attorney general now appears poised to take decisive action, although
another meeting is scheduled for tomorrow. The Justice Department must come to
grips with the fact that a negotiated settlement is not possible here. Rather it
must issue an order to accomplish Elian's transfer to his father. If the order
appears fair, the family will have little choice but to obey it.

The concern of the family in Miami is that bringing Elian to his father would
lead to an immediate return to Cuba, effectively ending the judicial appeal.
This is a legitimate concern. The attorney general invited the family to go to
federal court. To demand a transfer that could short-circuit the judicial
process would seem to play into the relatives' contention that they have been
denied their day in court.

Apparently, the attorney general believes that the Miami family should have to
seek an injunction from the appeals court prohibiting Elian's departure. She has
stated that she could not prevent Juan Miguel from taking his boy home once he
had custody of him. But we believe she has adequate legal authority to maintain
the status quo pending court proceedings.

The immigration laws give the attorney general the authority to prevent the
departure of non-citizens in the United States. Under existing regulations,
departure control orders may be granted for an alien needed in a government
proceeding or where departure would be "prejudicial to the interests of the
United States." Issuing such an order may appear a bit Draconian. It would be
better for the INS to parole Elian to the custody of his father on the condition
that neither leave the country until a final decision is rendered in the
appellate court.

The INS's unwillingness to do what it has always had the authority to do--to
revoke the temporary custody arrangement with the Miami family--has been based
on the fear that the family might not comply. But to date the relatives have
obeyed every order of the federal government, and they have repeatedly stated
that they will continue to do so. Under the proposal just sketched, there would
be an added incentive to do so: the family would know that Elian would not leave
the United States until the federal court proceedings had ended.

The attorney general should terminate the custody of the Miami family
immediately. At the same time, she should reach agreement with Juan Miguel that
he not remove Elian from the United States until a court of appeals decision in
his favor has been rendered.

This solution would end the unconscionable separation of father and son. And it
would reaffirm an American principle as deep as family unification: the rule of
law.



The writers have served as general counsel to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.




LOAD-DATE: April 09, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              72 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                       May 1, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

One Latina's Elian Experience

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A24; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 225 words


Sometimes I wonder if Richard Rodriguez and I are both Mexican Americans living
in the same country [op-ed, April 23]. In contrast to Mr. Rodriguez's
observation that the Elian Gonzalez saga might bridge the divide between Cuban
Americans and other Latino communities, for this Latina the experience has
emphasized our differences.

For years Cuban exiles have enjoyed a special category under immigration laws.
The same government that deported Salvadorans, Nicaraguans and Haitians back to
armed conflict--to governments hostile to the United States and to
government-sanctioned butchery--welcomed Cubans with specially enacted
immigration laws.

Moreover, had Elian been Mexican, Nicaragua or Haitian, he would have been
deported at lightning speed and most definitely would not have been allowed to
remain at the home of extended family members against the wishes of his only
living, previously custodial and by all accounts caring parent.

None of the public flouting of and disrespect for the law by Elian's Miami
relatives would have been tolerated from any other Latino group.

Far from forging a bridge between Cuban Americans and other Latinos, for me the
Elian case has forged "solidarity" only with Janet Reno, who has demonstrated
quite courageously that no one is above the law.

ISABEL KALDENBACH

Arlington



LOAD-DATE: May 01, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              73 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 13, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Illegal Immigrants To Be Protected In Texas Town

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 172 words

DATELINE: EL CENIZO, Tex., Aug. 12



A community on the Mexican border has declared itself a "safe haven" for illegal
immigrants and passed an ordinance making Spanish the town's official language.
Any city worker who helps the U.S. Border Patrol uncover illegal immigrants will
be fired, Mayor Rafael Rodriguez said.

El Cenizo is an impoverished town with a high population of first-generation
immigrants, both legal and illegal.

Rodriguez does not speak English and says it's discrimination in City Council
meetings "not to speak Spanish and explain what is going on."

The ordinances, adopted last week, stipulate that local governmental
transactions be conducted in Spanish, with an English translation provided with
48 hours' notice. In compliance with state and federal laws, written ordinances
will be adopted in English and translated into Spanish.

The safe haven ordinance bars city employees from inquiring about anyone's
immigration status.

"I would treat anyone the same, whether they're here illegally or not,"
Rodriguez said.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              74 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 15, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

Dole Would Bar Illegal Immigrants From Services, Schools

David Von Drehle, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: GLENWOOD, Iowa, Oct. 14



Republican presidential candidate Elizabeth Dole said at a town meeting here
today that she supports a controversial measure to deny public services--except
for emergency medical care--to illegal immigrants.

Dole's position is in contrast to efforts by Republican frontrunner Texas Gov.
George W. Bush to distance the party from California's Proposition 187, a 1994
ballot measure that provoked a backlash against the GOP among Latino voters.

Dole even embraced the most charged aspect of the California initiative: the
move to bar children of illegal aliens from public schools unless they were born
in the United States. That provision was a major factor in blocking
implementation of the proposition because it appeared to conflict with a 1982
U.S. Supreme Court decision guaranteeing illegal immigrant children access to
public education.

Because illegal immigration is "a situation where the law is being broken, it
sends the wrong signal" to provide benefits, Dole said after the meeting. "The
California proposition is one I would agree with. That's the easiest way to put
it."

Reaction to Proposition 187 was a significant factor in the election of
California Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, last November. The measure had been
promoted by Davis's predecessor, Pete Wilson, who could not seek a third term
under the state's constitution.

California, with its 54 electoral votes, is considered crucial to Democratic
hopes to hold onto the White House next year and for that reason, GOP
strategists are looking for ways to reclaim Republican strength there. But
Dole's position aligns her with the politically dangerous Wilson position.

Bush was a brand-new governor in Texas--another state where immigration is a key
issue--in 1994 and he has always been careful to keep his distance from the
controversy. The GOP frontrunner has been unusually popular for a Republican
among Latino voters in Texas and hopes to translate that success to the national
scale.

During his first campaign swing through California in June, Bush said he was
"against the spirit" of Proposition 187 and would not have supported a similar
measure for Texas. "I felt like every child ought to be educated regardless of
the status of their parents," he said.


Staff researcher Ben White in Washington contributed to his report.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              75 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 30, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

30 Illegal Immigrants In Cargo Ships Arrested

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, Calif., Dec. 28


Thirty illegal immigrants from China who crossed the Pacific in specially
outfitted cargo containers were arrested when they emerged from their hiding
places after the boxes were unloaded.

Twenty-one people were detained at the Port of Long Beach and nine others were
arrested at neighboring Los Angeles Harbor. Officials were trying to determine
today whether the two smuggling attempts were related.

"It wasn't a traditional rite of passage where they come over in a broken boat.
This was a very sophisticated operation," said Rosemary Melville, deputy
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Los Angeles.

The groups traveled in "soft top" containers--canvas-covered boxes about the
size of a tractor-trailer. The containers were equipped with food, water,
battery-powered lights, portable toilets, cellular telephones and ladders for
climbing out. Pacific crossings typically take 10 to 12 days.

The smaller group arrived in Los Angeles Harbor on Christmas aboard the Danish
ship OOCL Netherlands. Harbor police spotted a stowaway on the dock Tuesday.
That person led police to the container.

That night, a worker at the Maersk terminal in Long Beach spotted Chinese
immigrants wandering around. Guards took seven women, 12 men and two boys into
custody.

They had been in a container that arrived Christmas Eve aboard the MS Sine
Maersk and was unloaded onto a trailer.

"They were in relatively good health," said Art Wong, a port spokesman. "They
had ski jackets and parkas. They wore jeans or khakis."

The immigrants, most of whom apparently were from Fujian Province, had duffel
bags filled with personal items, and some had portable tape players for
entertainment during the journey.

The ships' crews were not suspected of any involvement, Melville said. Wong said
it would be unlikely for anyone to discover the stowaways during the crossing.

Melville said two of the immigrants said they were each charged $ 50,000 by
smugglers and had paid $ 5,000 in advance for the voyage.

Smugglers have used soft-top containers to smuggle immigrants to other West
Coast ports. After 19 people were found in a container shipped to Tacoma, Wash.,
in April, an INS official said it was part of a troubling trend.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              76 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 15, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Delays Activities to Ease Fears Of Census; Plan Is to Boost Immigrant Count

D'Vera Cohn , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 637 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will order its agents to postpone
routine enforcement actions that would interfere with the taking of the 2000
Census in the spring, an effort aimed at reassuring illegal immigrants and
others that it is safe to be counted, officials said yesterday.

The soon-to-be-released guidance to agents is part of a broad campaign to
persuade reluctant, fearful and suspicious Americans to comply with the census
as officials seek to reverse a long-term trend toward lower participation.

Ken Elwood, deputy executive associate commissioner for field operations of the
INS, said the agency is drafting a statement telling agents to "stay away from
those areas during the time the census is being conducted."

Agents will postpone action on routine, discretionary cases--for example, a raid
on an employer--if they find that census workers will be in the area or a census
event is scheduled, he said. But the agency will not stop work on cases
involving national security, wanted felons or public safety--for example, raids
on houses where people are held hostage.

The orders to agents will not be as strong as those sought by immigration
advocacy groups, which pressed for a nationwide moratorium for a set period.
Elwood said the agency's policy will be similar to the one used during the 1990
Census, but that this time immigration officials would coordinate better with
census officials.

Elwood also emphasized that the immigration agency does not want to see
information from individual census forms, which is against the law.

"It's clearly our aim to do everything we can to make sure this is the best
census ever, and that we do absolutely nothing that will interfere in the census
process," Elwood said.

As part of its confidentiality campaign, officials yesterday unveiled television
advertisements by three well-known baseball players--Barry Bonds, Derek Jeter
and Ivan Rodriguez. The high-profile athletes emphasize that they are not afraid
to fill out census forms because the information they provide is confidential.

The 30-second ads will be shown on at least one major network, NBC, as well as
on many cable stations and electronic scoreboards at most major league baseball
stadiums. The players donated their time for the ads.

In a speech to the League of United Latin American Citizens yesterday, President
Clinton also assured Americans that "information on census forms is totally
confidential."

"Now, if we believe everybody in our American community counts, we've got to
make sure everyone is counted in this year's census," the president said.

Census Director Kenneth Prewitt said most Americans lump census information with
other government data and assume all of it is not private. While most people
fill out their forms anyway, Prewitt estimated that 3 percent to 4 percent of
Americans--a disproportionate number of them minorities--do not send back their
forms because of fears that private information will be given to the
authorities.

As a measure of what the Census Bureau is up against--and how it will resist
attempts to be used--Prewitt said an FBI agent asked the bureau's El Paso office
last week to give him a badge and other identification.

"He basically wanted to impersonate a census enumerator in order to get into a
house," Prewitt said.

The agent told census officials he would come back with a subpoena if they did
not comply, Prewitt said. After some back-and-forth, the agent's supervisor
agreed to "cease and desist," Prewitt said.

At a congressional hearing today, General Accounting Office investigators are
expected to press the Census Bureau to devise a better contingency plan to deal
with potential crises and to question why the bureau had to make last-minute
fixes to a vital computer system.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              77 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 19, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 537 words


INS Raid in Arizona

Dismays Census Official

PHOENIX--A U.S. census official expressed dismay after federal authorities
conducted a raid and arrested 140 suspected undocumented immigrants.

Adolfo Echeveste, manager of the census office for eastern metro Phoenix, said
the raid at a house Thursday in Mesa, Ariz., could interfere with efforts to
count people who may already fear the government. He added that the Immigration
and Naturalization Service is supposed to keep a low profile while the census is
being conducted.

But the INS said the raid was in line with its policy because it stemmed from a
police tip. "We have no intent to plan operations in areas where the census is
being conducted. But if we get calls from police, we are obligated to help
them," said INS spokesman Russell Ahr.


College Donor Wants

His $ 500,000 Back

MINNEAPOLIS--Elroy Stock, an Augsburg College alumnus with controversial ideas
about race, is tired of waiting for the school to name a building wing after him
and has sued to get back his gift of $ 500,000.

After the school accepted the money in 1987, Augsburg officials learned that
Stock, now 77, had mailed thousands of letters to interracial couples over a
20-year period condemning interracial marriage, adoptions and out-of-wedlock
births. College President Charles Anderson, who is white and has a black
daughter-in-law, said he had received three of Stock's letters and that Stock
had agreed to let the school keep the money but not name a building for him.
Stock disputes that.


* PRESTON, Minn.--Harold Kramer Jr., 27, was convicted Friday of killing his
3-year-old son by taping him to a tree in the woods as a way to win back his
estranged girlfriend. Jurors acquitted Kramer of first-degree murder but
convicted him of second-degree intentional murder, felony murder and child
endangerment in the boy's death in May. He could be sentenced to 40 years in
prison.


* LOS ANGELES--A former Disney Internet executive pleaded guilty Friday to
crossing state lines for sex with an e-mail acquaintance he believed was a
13-year-old girl but really was an undercover FBI agent. Patrick J. Naughton,
34, of Seattle could face up to 15 years in prison. Naughton, who was fired
after his arrest, had written programs for Disney's Go.com Network designed to
screen out foul language and pornographic images.


* PROVIDENCE, R.I.--Rosemary Glancy, the city's former deputy tax assessor, was
convicted Friday in the scandal the FBI dubbed "Operation Plunder Dome" in which
bribes were accepted at City Hall for lower property taxes. She was found guilty
of seven counts, including attempted extortion and mail fraud. Five other people
indicted in the case have pleaded or been found guilty.


* Former basketball star Michael Jordan celebrated the first year of his annual
$ 1 million program of grants to teachers designed to help them make a
difference in their schools by announcing the second half of the 400 $ 2,500
awards given to teachers of poor children. Teachers may use the Jordan
Fundamentals grants to take children on field trips, buy extra equipment and
materials for class projects, and take extra training courses.



LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              78 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      May 12, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Clinton Proposes More Visas for High-Tech Workers; House Republicans Object to
Plan Easing Standard for Illegal Immigrants to Apply for Residence

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 611 words



President Clinton offered a plan yesterday for expanding a visa program for
foreigners with high-tech skills, but leading Republicans criticized the
proposal as pandering to illegal immigrants.

The high-tech industry says there are not enough Americans to fill all the
available jobs and has urgently been pushing Congress to boost the number of
visas.

Clinton wants to distribute an extra 362,500 visas during the next three years
and quadruple fees collected to create a training and education program for U.S.
workers. He also would require that up to half the foreigners hold master's
degrees or above to ensure U.S. companies get people with the highest skills.

"We feel that this is a balanced proposal that is drawn on the best ideas that
have been put forward," said Gene Sperling, a Clinton aide and director of the
National Economic Council.

Clinton's proposal also would change immigration policies governing Central
Americans and illegal aliens, a move Republicans say is unnecessary and places
the visa increase in jeopardy.

"I just don't see this as helpful," said Rep. David Dreier (R-Calif.) a sponsor
of one of several competing visa bills. "I've got to say I'm a little
disappointed that the White House is appearing to try and weaken this
legislation that is designed to improve our nation's work force."

H-1B visas are given to foreigners with college degrees and allow them to work
in the United States for up to six years. The number of visas is capped at
115,000 this year but is scheduled to fall to 107,500 next year and 65,000 per
year after that.

High-tech industry officials say at least 300,000 jobs are going unfilled for
lack of qualified U.S. applicants. Labor unions contend the industry is looking
overseas chiefly to hold down wages.

Clinton's proposal would set a cap of 200,000 visas a year for three years, with
10,000 designated each year for research and higher education.

He would boost the $ 500 fee for visas to $ 2,000 for most companies and $ 3,000
for companies that depend on foreigners for at least 15 percent of their work
forces. Half the extra money would pay for training U.S. workers, 30 percent
would pay for educating U.S. workers, and 20 percent would pay for improving the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Two other Clinton suggestions deal with immigration policy beyond H-1B visas.

Currently, Nicaraguans and Cubans who apply for adjustment of their immigration
status are given preference over nationals from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras
and Haiti because of the political climate in those two countries. Clinton
proposed to treat immigrants from all of those countries the same.

Also, Clinton proposed to move up the date that qualifies long-term illegal
immigrants for legal residence. Currently, only immigrants who arrived before
1972 could apply for legal status. Clinton wants to move the date to 1986,
allowing many more immigrants to gain legal standing.

When the House Judiciary Committee cobbled together a compromise visa bill this
week, Chairman Henry J. Hyde (R-Ill.) refused to consider the immigration
proposals. The measure removed the cap for H-1B visas and increased the visa fee
by only $ 150.

"The Clinton administration turned its back on American workers and pandered to
illegal aliens," said Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), head of the Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration.

High-tech industry officials are pleased Clinton wants to increase the visas but
are disappointed by the dramatically higher fees.

"That's a bit of a concern," said Bob Cohen, senior vice president of the
Information Technology Association of America.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              79 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 6, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Mexican Offers Bounty to Kill U.S. Agents

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: REYNOSA, Mexico, June 5


A Mexican activist today offered $ 10,000 to anybody who kills a U.S. Border
Patrol agent, a move that was immediately condemned by the Mexican government.

U.S. officials also opened an investigation into the bounty offered by Carlos
Ibarra Perez, spokesman for an advocacy group called the Citizen Defense
Committee.

Ibarra, 60, says too many illegal immigrants are being slain by federal agents
and private landowners while making their way into the United States.

"They [the Border Patrol] are massacring people," Ibarra said at a news
conference in this city just across the border from Texas. "And now we're ready
to defend ourselves."

Mounting tension between undocumented immigrants, federal authorities and border
residents has been more evident in recent months.

Two weeks ago, a Border Patrol agent in nearby Brownsville shot and killed an
illegal immigrant during a struggle on the banks of the Rio Grande.

Last month, the Mexican government hired a Washington law firm to seek damages
from vigilantes who have detained illegal immigrants for authorities.


LOAD-DATE: June 06, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              80 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Lifesaving on the Border; INS Bolsters Training to Counter Rise in Migrant
Deaths

Michael A. Fletcher , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A21; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 603 words


Alarmed by the increasing number of migrants dying while illegally crossing from
Mexico into the United States, Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris M. Meissner yesterday announced plans to step up the training
of Border Patrol agents in lifesaving techniques.

The Border Patrol is developing a swift-water rescue training program for agents
working along the 2,000-mile southwestern border. The agency also plans to
retrain its agents in other lifesaving techniques in an effort to stem the
fast-rising number of deaths along the border with Mexico.

Since October, 217 people have died along the border, while agents rescued 1,104
others and apprehended about 1.2 million illegal migrants, the Border Patrol
reports. In the preceding 12 months, 231 migrants died along the border, most
often by drowning or because they were weakened by hunger or dehydration after
being abandoned in the desert by smugglers or coyotes who guide the vast
majority of illegal migrant journeys.

The increase in deaths "is unacceptable," Meissner said. "We want to reduce the
number of deaths and increase safety on both sides of the border."

The effort to step up agent training comes two years after the Border Patrol
launched an initiative aimed at reducing migrant fatalities--both from violence
at the hands of smugglers or bandits and from exposure or accidents that occur
while illegal crossers are trying to make their way into the United States.

In addition to identifying the most dangerous crossing points and putting up
signs warning of perils--such as long stretches of desert, poisonous snakes or
fast-moving waterways--Border Patrol agents are actively seeking out migrants
who venture into treacherous terrain without adequate water, food or protection
from the elements.

The INS also has taken to posting signs in its offices warning migrants not to
trust the often ruthless smugglers--a message that they hope will be transmitted
to family back home.

Still, the efforts have not managed to stem the desire of the millions of people
desperate enough to risk their lives--and the lives of their young children--for
a chance to share in the economic opportunity available in the United States.

Late last month, for instance, Border Patrol agents rescued an 18-month-old girl
who was left in the desert with her sick mother, who died before they found her.
Other migrants have drowned in deceptively dangerous rivers or canals, succumbed
to oppressive heat deep in the southwestern outback or been hit by trains after
falling asleep on remote sections of track.

Even as the Border Patrol is touting its efforts to save migrants, the agency
has faced criticism for pursuing an enforcement strategy that some say is
indirectly causing many of the deaths by forcing migrants away from cities and
into harsh country.

Immigration officials have erected miles of heavy steel fences along stretches
of the border and focused patrols near population centers such as San Diego,
Nogales, Ariz., and El Paso, Tex., that were once popular among those who wanted
to enter the United States illegally. That has pushed illegal border crossers
into the remote desert.

Not only has that proven dangerous to migrants, but the strategy's effects have
prompted a backlash from some ranchers in remote sections of Arizona. Those
ranchers have taken the law into their own hands by rounding up migrants and
holding them for Border Patrol agents--a practice that immigration officials
have discouraged.

"We make the ranchers know this is the job of the Border Patrol," Meissner said.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              81 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 16, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

U.S., Mexico Probe Reported Border Breach

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 15


U.S. and Mexican officials are investigating a report that Border Patrol agents
crossed into Mexico to capture suspected illegal immigrants.

"This was intentional," said Rita Vargas Torregrosa, Mexican consul in Calexico,
a border town. "Things are very irregular in this case."

Mexican officials quoted witnesses as reporting the border incursion by two
agents, and Vargas said more than a dozen people saw it. Border Patrol agents
met on Friday with Mexican consular officials and representatives of a Mexican
border crime task force, Border Patrol spokesman Manuel Figueroa said.

The incident allegedly occurred Thursday eight miles east of the Calexico
crossing, Figueroa said. He said the allegations are under investigation. "Some
people were arrested. Apparently, someone's claiming they were arrested in
Mexico," he said. "The agents felt they were in the United States."

The four were released the same day and voluntarily returned to Mexico, Figueroa
said.

Vargas said one of the Border Patrol agents crossed the border but didn't go
far. "The other entered a kilometer into Mexican territory pursuing a group of
seven migrants," she said.

The area lacks a border fence and the border markers there are miles apart,
Figueroa said. Vargas said the All-American Canal is an obvious border marker,
but Figueroa said the canal is up to a mile north of the boundary in places.

Border conflicts have been a chronic problem. In April, Mexican soldiers and
U.S. police faced off with weapons drawn in a flood control tunnel connecting
Nogales, Mexico, and Nogales, Ariz. The soldiers accidentally crossed about 6
feet into U.S. territory, Mexican officials said.

In March, two Mexican army trucks crossed into U.S. territory in a remote area
south of Santa Teresa, N.M., and soldiers fired at Border Patrol agents. Mexican
officials said the soldiers did not realize they had crossed the border.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              82 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    June 21, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

2nd Suspect Arrested in Deaths of Migrants; Identity Withheld; British Police
Wait To Question Survivors

Sue Leeman , Associated Press

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 668 words

DATELINE: LONDON, June 20


Police have made a second arrest in the deaths of 58 Chinese illegal immigrants
whose bodies were found in an unventilated truck in the British port of Dover,
Dutch authorities said today.

The suspect was taken into custody Monday during a police sweep through three
buildings in the Dutch port of Rotterdam, according to a statement from the Unit
for Alien Smuggling, a department of the Dutch Justice Ministry.

The suspect's identity and other personal information about him were not
released. Earlier, authorities had said they were searching for Arie van der
Spek, 24, a Dutch engineer from Rotterdam who owned the company that leased the
truck in which the victims were found late Sunday.

In Britain, meanwhile, police said all 58 victims were in their twenties and
apparently had died of "respiratory failure." Also, the first accounts emerged
from two traumatized, dehydrated survivors--the only people to escape the truck
alive.

Quoting unidentified hospital sources, reports in London newspapers said the two
men told an interpreter that they banged on the truck's walls and shouted, their
desperation mounting as their companions began to pass out and die.

The survivors remained hospitalized under guard in Canterbury, 55 miles
southeast of London, and investigators said they hoped the two men would be fit
enough for formal questioning late today. Authorities say they are the keys to
tracing the immigrant smugglers who organized the migrants' hellish journey from
Belgium across the English Channel to Dover, on England's southern coast.

The 60 men were packed in among a load of tomatoes, and the truck's
refrigeration unit was turned off as temperatures outside reached the high 80s,
the hottest day of the year so far.

"To have 60 young people in the back of a truck, there would have to have been
some organization to get these people over from China," said Dennis McGookin, a
detective with the Kent County police. "In liaising with the Chinese police,
hopefully we will know more on this soon."

Much of the investigation has focused on the Dutch connections, including the
driver of the truck, who was Dutch, and the Dutch company that leased the
vehicle. In the Netherlands, police would not say whether the suspect arrested
Monday was van der Spek, the man who owned the trucking company. Van der Spek
was said to live above a bicycle shop with his parents in a two-story apartment
building in Rotterdam.

Police said earlier that he had registered the company, Van der Spek
Transporten, with the Chamber of Commerce on June 15, but police said some of
the registration information had proved to be false, including the company's
telephone number and postal code.

In Britain, Dutch police joined British officers today in questioning the driver
of the truck, who was arrested Monday on suspicion of manslaughter after customs
officials found the bodies.

Discovery of the truckload of bodies has prompted Britain to launch a major
investigation into the lucrative, international racket of smuggling migrants to
Western countries and focused a spotlight on the desperate measures such
migrants are willing to take. British authorities said crime syndicates smuggle
thousands of illegal aliens through the country's ports.

The victims in this case appeared to be from China's southern Fujian province,
where racketeers known as "snakeheads" charge would-be migrants up to $ 60,000
to organize their dangerous journey to the West. A Chinese attorney in London
said that three relatives of the victims--themselves illegal immigrants--had
contacted him but that they feared deportation if they spoke with police.

"Our main concern is how the relatives are going to come forward to identify the
bodies," said the lawyer, Wahplow Tan. He said he believes most of the victims
were from Fujian, home region of many of the 150,000 Chinese in Britain. They
often live in crowded quarters in London's Chinatown and work illegally in
restaurants for low wages.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              83 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   August 25, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

No Freedom for Chinese Refugees

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A16; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 279 words


The Chinese detainees being held in Ullin, Ill., are not the only ones who have
been duped ["For 88 Refugees, Limbo Is a Place Called Illinois," news story,
Aug. 16]. So have we at Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service (LIRS).

LIRS was called by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to coordinate the
pro bono legal services for 34 Chinese asylum seekers detained at Ullin. Part of
our decision to accept the leadership role in this unusual collaborative
outreach on the part of the INS was based on assurances by the INS that parole
would be a real option. We at the service felt the INS was interested in
changing the way it does business.

We and our colleague agencies, members of the Detention Watch Network, donated
hundreds of hours of staff time to provide pro bono legal services at a moment's
notice at a remote location on behalf of the Chinese asylum seekers. Our mission
through this cooperative endeavor was to ensure a fair process, obtain parole
and free at least some of these frightened people from detention.

The asylum seekers were found by the INS to have credible fear; the asylum
seekers had bona fide reasons for their flight from China, such as forced
abortion and sterilization. We filed their parole requests in a timely fashion
and secured sponsors and shelters for each of them. We obtained their promissory
letters of intent to report monthly to the INS and to attend all hearings. We
assured the INS that we would arrange pro bono legal counsel for each of them.
The INS has denied requests for parole for each of them.

RALSTON DEFFENBAUGH Jr.

President

Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service

New York



LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              84 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 6, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Algerian Ordered Held Without Bond

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Jan. 5


An Algerian suspected of having links to a countryman charged with trying to
smuggle explosives into the United States was ordered held without bond today.

Abdel Hakim Tizegha, 29, is charged with illegally entering the country and
eluding federal officers at the Canadian border. He was arrested Dec. 24 at the
border crossing at Bellevue, Wash.

Tizegha was to appear before a federal magistrate today, but his attorney
declined to challenge a government motion to detain him.

No link has been made in court between Tizegha and Ahmed Ressam, who has pleaded
not guilty to federal charges accusing him of having bombmaking materials in his
rental car as he entered the country Dec. 14.

But newspaper reports have said that Tizegha is linked to Ressam and that
Tizegha and another man investigated in the case, Abdel Ghani, are longtime
friends. Ghani was arrested Thursday and charged with helping Ressam.

A fourth man, Abdel Majid Dahoumane, is believed to have stayed with Ressam at a
motel in British Columbia before Ressam was arrested. Warrants have been issued
for his arrest.

According to former CIA counterterrorism chief Vincent Cannistraro, all four are
part of a terrorist splinter group in Algeria that is supported by Osama bin
Laden, the Saudi exile believed to have masterminded last year's attack on two
U.S. embassies in Africa.

Cannistraro, citing information from French counterterrorism officials, said the
men belong to a faction that broke with the Armed Islamic Group in Algeria over
its practice of targeting fellow Muslims.

French investigators have said Ressam has links to Fateh Kamel, who has been
jailed in Paris since April and is suspected of being the leader of an Islamic
militant group. Cannistraro, citing the same French officials, said Kamel is the
leader of the splinter group to which Ressam and the others belong.

A car containing Abdel Hakim Tizegha leaves garage of federal courthouse in
Seattle on Monday. He is charged with illegally entering the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 06, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              85 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 17, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

For Stowaways, Perilous Passage as Human Cargo

Rene Sanchez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1321 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, Calif.


They hide for weeks cramped within the bleak metal walls of cargo ship
containers, tossed by rough seas, trapped in total darkness and bound for
American shores on desperate voyages that begin halfway around the world.

Stowaways smuggled from China through elaborate criminal networks are besieging
the ports of the West Coast, turning up dazed, sick or dead on docks from here
to Seattle. It is a sad spectacle growing worse every month, and federal
officials say it may be difficult to stop.

Since Christmas, more than 50 Chinese nationals, nearly all young men, have been
discovered in some of the thousands of cargo containers that freighters deliver
to this giant port every day. Already this year, an additional 85 have been
nabbed in containers on ships docked in Seattle and just across the border in
Vancouver, including three who were found dead last week amid their own filth.

Ports in other parts of the Pacific Northwest, as well as Southern California,
are reporting outbreaks of the same problem. In all, several hundred Chinese
being smuggled to the United States and Canada have been caught in recent months
virtually sealed in horrific conditions inside cargo containers the size of
boxcars. And port authorities are sure that scores of others have managed to
sneak unnoticed out of bustling shipyards.

"This is a huge smuggling operation we're up against," said Michael Fleming, an
administrator for the branch of the U.S. Customs Service that oversees the
neighboring ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles. "And it's getting harder to
discover. There's no way we could look inside most of the containers that come
off these ships every day."

It is an old story with a new twist: For decades, U.S. Coast Guard and Customs
officials on the West Coast have regularly caught groups of young Chinese
nationals trying to get smuggled into the country. Until recently, they usually
have been fairly easy to spot. Most have been riding on ragged fishing vessels
listing across the high seas, captured with ease, then deported back to China.
Last spring, the Immigration and Naturalization Service sent home about 500
Chinese nationals who were discovered near Guam.

The crackdown on the seas has been so successful, federal officials say, that it
is forcing smugglers to resort to far more extreme measures. "This is their
reaction to what we've been doing," said Sharon Gavin, an INS spokeswoman. "The
situation that they are putting these people in now is incredibly perilous."

In Seattle last week, port authorities acting on a tip found 18 Chinese men
jammed inside a 40-foot metal cargo container with a canvas top. It had been
their squalid home for weeks, with no light and little air because several other
containers had been stacked on top during the long journey at sea. They had
plastic buckets for human waste, a few flashlights and not much water. Three had
been dead for days when dock workers ripped the box open. The others staggered
out barefoot and were hospitalized.

Federal officials say that incident is the most wretched of their discoveries so
far, but others have not been much better. Here in Long Beach last fall,
authorities found 54 Chinese men, including some teenagers, who had spent three
months at sea crammed inside two small and narrow cargo containers of a
freighter.

Once captured, the men are telling the same grim tale: Most are from rural
provinces on the southern coast of China and traveled from their peasant
villages to Hong Kong with the hope of being smuggled to America on cargo ships,
no matter how harsh the circumstances. The price of the trip is steep. Some
smuggling networks demand up to $ 50,000 or more, money few of the men have.

Entire families of the men scrape together cash for down payments. Then, in
exchange for passage to the United States, the stowaways become indentured
servants, promising future wages from their work in sweatshops or other parts of
the nation's underground economy. And they know full well that if they do not
pay their debts, the lives of family members could be in danger. Federal
investigators here also say that most of the men are bound for illegal factory
work on the East Coast, primarily in New York.

"This is not a small-time, seat-of-the-pants smuggling operation," said Stanley
Rosen, a professor at the University of Southern California who specializes in
Chinese affairs. "It has a long history, and it's very sophisticated. There's
also a lot of money involved, because running it well requires so many payoffs."

The sheer size and frenzied pace of ports along the West Coast can make catching
the stashed human cargo akin to finding a needle in a haystack. Here in Long
Beach, which is the biggest and busiest port in the nation, docks sprawl for
3,000 acres and churn all day with industrial bustle. About 5,000 ships, most
coming from Asia, drop anchor and unload more than 4 million cargo containers a
year. At Seattle's port, ships deliver about 1.5 million cargo containers a
year. Most of the time, the smuggled men are found by chance.

Hiding on freighters that are 500 feet long and often have only two dozen crew
members is not difficult, and ports say that at best they inspect about 10
percent of cargo containers as they are unloaded.

"We really don't know what's inside most of the containers," said Art Wong, a
spokesman for the Port of Long Beach, "because until now we never had that much
of a problem with people trying to smuggle human cargo like this." Most ports
simply rely on shipping lines to provide lists of cargo contents.

But port officials are getting more aggressive. Some are walking dogs trained to
detect human scents past rows of cargo containers. Investigators are also paying
closer attention to the smaller percentage of canvas-topped containers--because
smugglers hide many of the men in them--and keeping watch on the edge of
shipyards for runners waiting to pick up the illegal immigrants. Two men
arrested on Jan. 2 while waiting in a van at Seattle's port were indicted
Thursday on charges of attempting to smuggle a dozen Chinese nationals from
cargo ship containers into the country, at a cost of $ 60,000 each.

Federal authorities also say that government officials in Hong Kong are helping
with their investigations and vowing to start using heat sensors on many cargo
boxes before they are loaded on ships.

In Canada, where the smuggling problem in western ports is also severe, Customs
officials are imposing stiff penalties on ships found with illicit human cargo.
One ship that docked in Vancouver Jan. 4 with 25 Chinese nationals on board was
fined $ 375,000. Last fall, after finding 54 people stashed on a cargo ship in
Long Beach, U.S. officials charged its captain and crew with assisting in the
smuggling, a felony. They could face a $ 250,000 fine and as much as 10 years in
prison. But imposing sanctions on crews or shipping lines for having smuggled
humans aboard is still uncommon in the United States.

Federal officials say they do not believe that most shipping companies, or their
seafaring crews, are usually even aware they have illegal immigrants on board.
"At this point we're trying to emphasize cooperation with them," said INS
spokeswoman Gavin. "Maybe they can help us with this problem."

In some instances, smugglers, or "snakeheads" as they are known in China, have
sought to provide some comforts to the stowaways during their frightful trips
across the Pacific. Port investigators have found fans, mattresses, even cell
phones inside a few cargo containers. But most of the time, they see what they
saw last week in Seattle: frail men sharing scraps of food and water, in a box
fast becoming a tomb.

"It's brutal," Fleming said, "and stopping it will be a formidable task."

Chinese immigrants huddle next to container filled with malnourished and
dehydrated stowaways Jan. 10 in Seattle.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              86 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 19, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Rewarding the Wrong People

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A25; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 166 words



Louis Freedberg is right that we need to solve the problem of the millions of
illegal immigrants in this country ["Borderline Hypocrisy," Outlook, Feb. 6].
But he is wrong in suggesting amnesty. This rewards breaking the law and is
unfair to those waiting for their turn legally. It is unfair to the sending
country also, encouraging Mexicans to cut and run instead of organizing to
improve things there. Freedberg is from South Africa. Think if Nelson Mandela
had cut and run.

And it simply isn't true that illegal aliens are filling jobs Americans won't
do. I have talked to unskilled workers who say it is hard to get work when
Mexicans will live 10 to an apartment and work for little money.

Eliminating the employment of illegals here--really enforcing the law with
Social Security number checks--would encourage employers to either improve pay
and conditions so Americans would take the jobs or to move to Mexico where they
can get cheaper help.

--Martha Drake



LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              87 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 22, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Border Patrol

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 107 words


Any attempt by Congress to act on the AFL-CIO proposal to grant amnesty to more
than 6 million illegal aliens ["Unions Reverse on Illegal Aliens," Business,
Feb. 16] now residing in this country would send a clear signal to people around
the world that we are not serious about protecting our borders. It would attract
millions of workers willing to fill low-paying jobs, in competition with current
residents. It would also further impact cities where those jobs are offered. By
granting amnesty we are undermining our nation's sovereignty, by encouraging
people to break our immigration laws.

BYRON SLATER

San Diego



LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              88 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 13, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

A Borderless Hemisphere?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 450 words


NOW THAT NAFTA has been with us for half a decade, it's time to get ready for
the North American Union. Or so Vicente Fox, just elected president in Mexico's
first-ever truly democratic national vote, has sometimes suggested. His thoughts
about building a borderless, European Union-like zone of freely moving capital
and workers, complete, someday, with a common currency, are, to put it mildly,
politically unrealistic. But that doesn't mean they don't contain a kernel of
validity.

Start, as Mr. Fox does, with the obvious fact that illegal immigration from
Mexico remains a major irritant in relations between the two countries. The
annual arrival of tens of thousands of illegals makes the United States feel it
can't control its borders or its labor and social policies. It also presents
Mexicans with the humiliating spectacle of countrymen driven north by poverty.
Enforcement efforts can never stem the tide as long as the huge gap in economic
opportunity persists between the two countries.

Thus, Mr. Fox argues, why not adopt the approach of Europe, which, through
decades of aid and investment from wealthier northern countries, such as
Germany, in poorer southern ones, such as Spain, eventually succeeded in
equalizing conditions to the point where a borderless continent could be
established without unleashing a flood of destabilizing migration? He has also
floated the idea of expanding legal migration in the short term, perhaps linking
additional visas for Mexicans to the specific needs of American industries.

Plainly, any such visa program might raise hackles both in Mexico, where it
could remind people of the bracero guest worker program of the past, and in the
United States, where even a decade of prosperity and low unemployment has not
eliminated fears of more newcomers. Plainly, too, lifting Mexico, whose current
per capita income is about $ 4,000, to anywhere near the same economic level as
the United States and Canada is a hugely expensive proposition, even if the
assistance were spread out over decades--and even if it weren't the case that
aid can never be the sole, or even primary, factor in making Mexico rich.

Still, through building better infrastructure and spending more on schools, Mr.
Fox is determined to reduce the regional economic imbalances within Mexico
itself that feed migration, both to his country's overcrowded cities and to the
United States. At a minimum, Washington could look at ways to help the new
president succeed in that effort. And the next American president should join
his Mexican counterpart in thinking boldly about the problems that have plagued
the two countries' relationship for far too long.



LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              89 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   January 27, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Smuggling Patrols Face Violence at Sea; Freighters Bearing Human Cargo Pose a
Risky Test for Coast Guard

Roberto Suro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1284 words


After the U.S. Coast Guard intercepted the freighter Wing Fung Lung on the high
seas last month, the smugglers who were bringing 249 illegal Chinese immigrants
to America attempted to sink the ship. When that failed, they tried to blend in
with the immigrants, start a riot, set fires, and overpower U.S. sailors.

On his first night aboard this floating nightmare, the commander of the Coast
Guard boarding party, Lt. j.g. Robert Borowczak, lay awake worrying that his
crew might not have captured all of the smugglers, known as "snakeheads," and
wondering what mayhem might come next.

The rust bucket and its desperate human cargo were intercepted Dec. 9 about 300
miles off the coast of Guatemala, the most recent in a series of incidents that
have caused the Coast Guard to declare that intercepting illegal migrants has
become a more dangerous business than running down drug smugglers.

"As smuggling in human cargo becomes more lucrative, the propensity for violence
has risen, and in addition to the smugglers using force, the migrants have
become more willing to jeopardize life and limb," said Cmdr. Jim McPherson, a
Coast Guard spokesman.

For six days and nights, the crew of the Coast Guard cutter Munro provided food,
water and medical attention to the migrants who had spent two months jammed on
the Wing Fung Lung in a doomed effort to enter the United States. But keeping
order proved the greatest challenge. The boarding party had to resort numerous
times to batons, pepper spray and handcuffs, according to Borowczak and other
crew members who returned to their home base at Alameda, Calif., on Monday night
and provided the first full accounts of the incident in telephone interviews
this week.

Since a surge in the number of Chinese smuggling vessels crossing the Pacific
began last spring, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has repatriated
872 migrants to China. Dozens more have been caught in U.S. ports, and unknown
hundreds have made it to America, where many end up working in sweatshops or
kitchens to pay off debts of $ 30,000 or more for the illicit passage. Along the
way, the Coast Guard has recorded 18 incidents of violence--compared to only one
in the whole of 1997--during missions to stop illegal immigration.

Chinese snakeheads, often associated with criminal gangs, are not the only
culprits. Cuban migrants intent on making it to Florida have repeatedly
threatened Coast Guard personnel with machetes in recent months.

"Over the years, I have handled thousands of migrants--Haitians, Cubans, Chinese
and others--and in the past, they were always compliant and pretty much resigned
to their fates. But now you see people who are absolutely determined to reach
their destination, and they'll fight back when they realize you are going to
stop them," said Capt. Wayne Justice, a 22-year veteran of the Coast Guard.

Justice was in command of the Munro, on a drug patrol in the eastern Pacific,
when a Coast Guard plane spotted a suspicious freighter. The Munro came
alongside the vessel that night and sent a boat to investigate.

The freighter's crew said they were carrying rice, then plywood. They said only
six people were on board, but at least that many could be seen looking out
portholes. The master of the Wing Fung Lung refused a request to inspect the
ship. The Munro fell back to follow at a distance as the Coast Guard checked the
ship's registry. After a day, Justice learned that the freighter was not a
Taiwanese vessel as its crew had claimed.

At that point, it was legally a "stateless vessel" and the Coast Guard had
authority to board it under international law.

At first light, the next morning the Munro launched its helicopter to take
another look--and the chopper reported hundreds of people on the deck. By the
time the cutter closed in on the freighter a few hours later, the Wing Fung Lung
was wallowing in the sea, and there seemed to be panic onboard.

As he led a boarding party of 25 onto the freighter, Borowczak immediately
ordered engineers to determine whether the ship was safe. They discovered a foot
of water in the engine room and valves that had been opened to scuttle the ship.
On the fantail, the only functioning life raft was partially inflated.

"After they saw our helicopter, the smugglers apparently concluded we were
coming after them and decided to sink the ship right there, leaving more than
200 people to their fates while they escaped," said Justice. The Coast Guard
crew made repairs and pumped out the freighter, which the Munro took under tow.

Meanwhile, chaos reigned on deck and in the main hold, where more than 200 male
migrants had lived without sanitation facilities or bedding during the long
passage from China. Following what has recently become standard practice in such
situations, Borowczak and his mates started looking for the "enforcers," the
smugglers who manage the migrants.

"You spot the ones that are bigger, better fed, better dressed," Borowczak said.
"You find the ones with tattoos and the ones who are shouting orders." About a
dozen such individuals were rounded up and separated from the rest.

With a Chinese-born Coast Guard cook providing translation, Borowczak learned
that the migrants had not eaten in two days and had not had water for more than
24 hours. At sunset, a boat from the cutter brought over a meal, but before the
boarding party could dispense it, some of the enforcers started yelling orders
into the crowd.

People rushed toward the buckets of rice and jugs of water, and began fighting
over the food. Almost simultaneously two fires broke out below decks.

"We realized we had to get the enforcers out of there or we were going to have a
riot on our hands," Borowczak recalled.

Two enforcers jumped a member of the boarding party and had to be repelled with
pepper spray. Other men refused to move, wrestled with Coast Guard personnel or
threw human feces at the Americans, and were subdued with baton strikes to their
legs.

When Borowczak and another Guard sailor cornered the man who appeared to be the
top enforcer on the ship, he charged them, flailing a length of wire rope. A
blast of pepper spray to the face did not slow him down. Soon all three were on
the deck wrestling, and the smuggler grabbed for the Guard sailor's pistol. In
the tussle, a shot went off but discharged harmlessly into a bulkhead. Two more
members of the boarding party rushed to the scene and subdued the alleged
smuggler with batons.

With all the suspected enforcers isolated, handcuffed and under guard, life
aboard the boat calmed down for a couple of days. Then one afternoon, the
migrants tore down tarps that had been set up on the deck to protect them from
the blistering sun, and several of them put on all the clothes they had. It was
an apparent effort to give themselves heat stroke. They had seen the Americans
evacuate a migrant who had suffered a concussion and apparently hoped that
getting sick was a ticket off the freighter.

After several fainted, Borowczak, 22, had a medic put an intravenous line into
one of the stricken migrants in full view of the others. "They didn't seem too
anxious to get stuck with a big needle and went back to behaving themselves," he
recalled.

After six days, the freighter and the cutter arrived off the coast of Guatemala,
and immigration inspectors came on board. Eventually 249 Chinese nationals were
sent home, and four suspected smugglers were brought to the United States this
month to face a variety of criminal charges.

Chinese migrants packed the deck of the Wing Fung Lung after a Coast Guard
boarding party took control of the ship off the coast of Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              90 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 7, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Migrant Workers Make More Passages of Hope

Kirstin Downey Grimsley , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1080 words



As multinational companies continue moving their operations across borders in
search of cheaper labor, record numbers of workers are moving in the opposite
direction in search of better pay and higher standards of living, a new report
on global migration patterns has found.

A review of recent census reports from 152 countries determined there are about
120 million migrants in the world now, including some refugees fleeing war or
famine who don't return to their homelands. That number is up from 75 million in
1965 and is expected to grow, the report said.

The swell of migration is creating a new $ 6 billion-a-year industry--human
trafficking--as workers from poor countries pay brokers for false documents or
to smuggle them into more desirable countries.

"Workers Without Frontiers: The Impact of Globalization on International
Migration" was issued last week by the International Labor Organization, a
United Nations agency based in Geneva. The biggest motivator for immigrants is a
better economic life, author Peter Stalker found.

"In a world of winners and losers, the losers do not simply disappear, they seek
somewhere else to go," the British economic researcher wrote.

Some foreign workers are needed because of tight labor markets in some
countries, including the United States--which admits more immigrants than anyone
else. In Europe and Japan, where birthrates are shrinking and the population is
aging, tight immigration controls may eventually be loosened because immigrants
will be needed as manual laborers, health-care aides and other jobs viewed as
undesirable by local residents.

But the increase in immigration has stirred debate in many countries and sparked
social and political unrest in others, including recent incidents in Spain that
involved violent attacks on immigrants. Immigration is "controversial and
complex everywhere," Stalker said in an interview.

Wide pay disparities among nations are giving workers an incentive to move,
Stalker found. One 1996 study, for example, found that workers who earned $ 31 a
week in Mexico earned $ 278 a week after they illegally immigrated to the United
States. Indonesians who earned 28 cents per day in 1997 could earn $ 2 or more
per day in neighboring Malaysia. Manufacturing workers who earned 25 cents an
hour in India in 1995 could earn 46 cents an hour in Thailand or $ 14.40 in
Australia, the report found.

"We're shaking people loose from their environments," Stalker said. "It won't
make them all migrate, but at least it's making them ask the question, 'Now
we're on our own, what should we do?' "

One thing some are doing is paying to sneak into richer countries. It costs
about $ 500, for example, to arrange illegal boat passage from Morocco to Spain,
according to the report, while passage from Eastern Europe to Western Europe can
cost $ 1,000 to $ 5,000.

A sophisticated travel "package" that would include transportation and forged
documents from China to the United States can cost $ 30,000. Others risk their
lives to make the trip. Some drown in the Mediterranean Sea trying to get to
Europe, or off the coast of the United States trying to reach Florida.

Bangkok has become an international center for false-document production,
according to the report. Passports, mainly Korean and Japanese, are doctored
using sophisticated technology, and they cost about $ 2,000 each.

Labor brokers also do a big business. The airport check-in lines at Dhaka,
Bangladesh, are thronged by rows of workers wearing uniforms provided by
brokers, preparing to fly to Malaysia and the Persian Gulf. The brokers charge
the workers a fee for this service.

In the Philippines, workers reportedly paid up to $ 4,600 to a broker for a job
in Japan or $ 3,800 for Taiwan, though legally the limit is about $ 200. A
Ukrainian worker who found a job in the Czech Republic reported he was required
to pay half of his $ 2.50-an-hour salary to his labor broker.

In some countries, migrants replace workers who have migrated elsewhere. In
northern Thailand in 1996, for example, thousands of Burmese construction
workers helped build a stadium to house the Asian Games, while Thai construction
workers departed their homes in search of better-paying positions building
expressways in Taiwan.

Between 3 million and 8 million people from Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Lesotho
have moved to South Africa in search of work, the report said. Argentina has an
estimated 200,000 undocumented workers from Peru, Bolivia and Paraguay.

Stalker said that increased worker migration is likely to continue for some time
because it will take years before economic equilibrium is reached. Even when
economically developing countries begin to prosper, Stalker said, their citizens
continue to try to emigrate until they develop a sense of financial security in
their home country. That's the reason that many South Koreans continued to seek
to move abroad even as their economy grew stronger, he said.


Labor costs for manufacturing -- where many immigrants are employed -- are
highest in European countries and lowest in Asia. China's costs have remained
flat for many years.

Costs per hour

1980/1995 (latest available)

Germany $ 12.33/$ 31.88

Switzerland $ 11.09/$ 29.28

Norway $ 11.59/$ 24.38

Japan $ 5.52/$ 23.66

Sweden $ 12.51/$ 21.36

France $ 8.94/$ 19.34

U.S.  $ 9.87/$ 17.20

Canada $ 8.67/$ 16.03

Singapore $ 1.49/$ 7.28

Hong Kong $ 1.51/$ 4.82

Philippines $ 0.53/$ 0.71

India $ 0.44/$ 0.25

China $ 0.25/$ 0.25


SOURCES: Morgan Stanley, International Labor Organization


Migrant Workers' Impact

Percent of nations' labor force that is foreign:

Australia 25.0%

Canada 18.5%

Austria 10.0%

U.S.  9.4%

Germany 9.1%

France 6.2%

Britain 3.4%

Italy 3.4%

NOTE: Figures are for 1998


Sources of immigration to U.S.:

Legal

Mexico 18.4%

Philippines 6.2

China 5.2

Vietnam 4.8

India 4.8

Cuba 4.2

Dominican Republic 3.4

El Salvador 2.3


Undocumented

Mexico 54.0%

El Salvador 5.6

Guatemala 3.3

Canada 2.4

Haiti 2.1

Philippines 1.9

Honduras 1.8

Poland 1.4


NOTE: Figures are for 1997 for legal; 1996 for undocumented


SOURCES: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, International Labor
Organization



LOAD-DATE: March 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              91 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 5, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 560 words



INS Reviews Status of Turk Detained on Plane


A Turkish national who was taken off an Istanbul-bound Delta Air Lines flight in
Atlanta by FBI agents Tuesday has been turned over to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the FBI and INS said yesterday.

The FBI identified the man as Hakan Caglar, 35, and said he had been in the
United States since about March. Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman, said the
agency was "reviewing [Caglar's] immigration status" but declined to discuss the
details of the review.

According to the FBI, officials in Atlanta had received information from the
bureau's office in Valdosta, Ga., where Caglar had boarded a connecting flight,
that "led us to believe that there was a potential threat to national security
of a terrorism nature." Caglar and several other passengers on the flight to
Turkey were detained and questioned. The others were allowed to depart on the
flight.

An FBI official said the investigation had not linked Caglar to any known
terrorist organizations. But in a statement, the bureau defended Caglar's
detention: "A series of circumstances led us to believe that removal of Mr.
Caglar was justified."


Judge Orders Wildlife Surveys Before Timber Sales


SEATTLE -- A federal judge has put nine federal timber sales in the Pacific
Northwest on hold, saying the government failed to conduct wildlife surveys
required under a landmark management plan for old-growth forests.

The ruling by U.S. District Judge William Dwyer affects proposed sales involving
nearly 100 million board feet, or about one-fifth of all timber set to be cut
this year on the west side of the Cascade Range. It could affect timber sales
across Washington, Oregon and California.


Tobacco Lawyers Seek Sick Judge's Recusal


MIAMI -- Tobacco lawyers, reeling from a sick-smokers liability verdict, want
the trial judge to quit, saying he is an ailing ex-smoker too biased to oversee
courtroom fights to set cash damages as high as $ 500 billion.

The request came as the judge said the punitive-penalty phase of the Florida
class-action suit could occur as soon as next month. The plan by Miami-Dade
Circuit Court Judge Robert Kaye opens cigarette makers to potentially huge cash
assessments years earlier than they had anticipated.


Addenda


FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -- A 12-year-old, 166-pound boy who bear-hugged a
6-year-old playmate and dropped her on the floor during a tag game has been
charged with the girl's death, but because he is a juvenile, a grand jury will
determine the nature of the charge, police said. Tiffany Eunick, 6, of Miramar,
died July 28 as a result of injuries caused by blunt trauma that day, police
said, citing a medical examiner's report.

ATLANTA -- Too excited to sleep after finding out he won the $ 116 million Big
Game drawing, Randy Kerfoot, 41, rushed to Atlanta from his Tennessee home to
claim his prize. Then Kerfoot, who will bank $ 39 million after taxes, called
his boss and said, "I'm out of here."

MIAMI -- Three people whose boat sank during a thunderstorm spent a night
floating in the Atlantic Ocean before they were spotted by a passing boater and
a television news helicopter. Vicky Scanlon, Daniel Hernandez and Anna Goodwyn,
who were all wearing life jackets, suffered dehydration, jellyfish stings and
nasty sunburns.



LOAD-DATE: August 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              92 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 7, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

DEATHS ELSEWHERE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 1098 words


Yitzhak Rafael

Israeli Official

Yitzhak Rafael, 85, a former legislator and government minister who helped bring
hundreds of thousands of immigrants to Israel, died Aug. 3 in Jerusalem. The
cause of death was not reported.

Mr. Rafael, who came to Israel from Poland in 1935, headed the immigration
department in the quasi-governmental Jewish Agency in the nation's early years
and oversaw waves of immigration from 1948 to 1953.

He was religious affairs minister from 1974 to 1977 and served seven terms in
the Israeli Knesset, or parliament, as a member of the National Religious Party.
After retiring from public life, he wrote and published religious and Zionist
writings as head of a Jerusalem institute affiliated with the party.


Robert E. Hunt

Former Priest

Robert E. Hunt, 65, a former Catholic University theologian who left the
university and the priesthood after publicly dissenting from Pope Paul VI's 1968
encyclical teaching on birth control, died of myloid leukemia Aug. 5 at his home
in Baltimore.

Mr. Hunt, a former director of the division of dogmatic studies in the
university's theology school, was among 12 theologians who faced disciplinary
action by the church after announcing their disagreement with the pope.

Later, he was co-author with Rev. Charles Curran of the book "Dissent In and For
the Church," which analyzed events connected with the controversy over the papal
encyclical. Mr. Hunt worked in real estate in New York, Miami and Baltimore.


Henry W. Sawyer III

Philadelphia Lawyer

Henry W. Sawyer III, 80, a lawyer who was a champion of liberal, civil rights
and civil liberties causes who won two landmark U.S. Supreme Court cases, died
of lung cancer July 31 in Philadelphia.

In 1962, the Supreme Court ruled in Schempp v. the Abington School District that
prayer and the ceremonial reading of the Bible in public schools are
unconstitutional. In 1971, the court ruled in Lemon v. Kurtzman that public aid
to parochial schools is unconstitutional.

Mr. Sawyer, who had served on the Philadelphia City Council from 1956 to 1959,
was a past chapter president of the American Civil Liberties Union and a past
chapter chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action.


Abdel Wahab al-Bayati

Iraqi Poet

Abdel Wahab al-Bayati, 73, a renowned Iraqi writer who revolutionized Arabic
poetry by breaking away from classical forms of poetry and started what later
became known as free verse, died Aug. 3 in Damascus, Syria, after a heart
attack.

Mr. al-Bayati graduated from Baghdad University and taught school before being
fired for his leftist political opinions. In 1954, he went into exile, first to
Syria and then to the Soviet Union and Egypt. He returned to Iraq after the 1958
revolution, but later fled again after disagreements with the next government.

He returned after a 1968 coup, but fled a few years later when the regime began
a brutal campaign against leftists. In 1980, Saddam Hussein assigned him to
Iraq's diplomatic mission in Madrid in an attempt to win him over. Mr. al-Bayati
quit in disgust after Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait.


Alberto Gironella

Mexican Painter

Alberto Gironella, 70, a leading Mexican surrealist painter and promoter of
literature and the arts, died Aug. 2 in Mexico City. He had bone cancer.

He painted surrealist versions of subjects as diverse as Emiliano Zapata, the
Mexican Revolution leader, and Madonna as well as his own interpretations of
such classical paintings as Spaniard Diego Velazquez's "Las Meninas" and works
by the Spanish painter Goya.

In 1960, he was awarded a prize at the Paris Biennial for Young Painters. After
that, he and many younger artists broke away from the politically inspired
surrealist masters who concentrated on depicting the poverty and suffering of
Mexico's working classes. The younger artists insisted that artists should be
free to invent and fantasize without constraints.


David 'D.W.' Brooks

Business Executive

David William "D.W." Brooks, 97, the founder of the farming cooperative Gold
Kist Inc. that became the nation's second largest poultry processor with annual
sales of more than $ 2 billion, died Aug. 5 in Atlanta. The cause of death was
not reported.

He formed the farm cooperative that would become Gold Kist in 1933 as the
Georgia Cooperative Cotton Producers Association. He also started Cotton Sales
Mutual Insurance Cos. in 1941.

Mr. Brooks advised seven presidents, from Harry S. Truman to Jimmy Carter, and
was named Man of the Year in Agriculture in the South in 1966 by Progressive
Farmer magazine.


Mohammed Hadid

Democracy Advocate

Mohammed Hadid, 92, an economist and politician who devoted his life to
advocating democracy in Iraq, died Aug. 3 in a hospital in London after an
asthma attack.

Mr. Hadid, a London School of Economics graduate, became Iraq's finance minister
in 1949 when the country was ruled by the monarchy. He resigned after less than
two months when the government failed to hold free elections, and he was
instrumental in the 1958 revolution that toppled the monarchy and established
the first republic in Iraq.

Mr. Hadid served as the republic's first finance minister in the government of
Abdel Karim Qassem. He resigned from the government and the National Democratic
Party in 1961. In 1963, after a bloody coup, Mr. Hadid was detained for a year
without trial, then left politics. The government of Saddam Hussein barred him
from leaving Iraq until four years ago, when he went to London.


Zohara Schatz

Israeli Artist

Zohara Schatz, 83, an artist who designed the emblem of Israel's Yad Vashem
Holocaust memorial, died Aug. 4 in Jerusalem. The cause of death was not
reported.

Ms. Schatz was a fixture in the Jerusalem art scene. She designed numerous
sculptures and decorative works throughout the city, including the six-branched
menorah, or candelabra, that stands at the entrance to Yad Vashem.

The sculpture became the museum's emblem, commemorating the 6 million Jews who
died in the Holocaust. It is lit once a year on Holocaust Remembrance Day.


Richard Anthony Marion

TV Actor and Director

Richard Anthony Marion, 50, who went from a role on TV's 1970s comedy "Operation
Petticoat" to directing recent episodes of "Everybody Loves Raymond," died July
19 in Los Angeles after a heart attack.

He played pharmacist's mate Williams on the 1977-79 ABC-TV series "Operation
Petticoat," a comedy set on a submarine in World War II. He later directed
episodes of the 1989-92 ABC comedy "Anything but Love."

LOAD-DATE: August 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              93 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 7, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Anne's Reader Exchange

Peat O'Neil

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C11; ANNE'S READER EXCHANGE

LENGTH: 787 words



English Tutors

The Spanish Education Development Center, based in Adams-Morgan, seeks
volunteers to work as teacher's assistants in the English as a Second Language
(ESL) program for immigrants. Classes are held in Washington and Silver Spring.
Orientation starts at 6 p.m. Wednesday, Sept. 1, at 1840 Kalorama Rd. NW.
Classes start Sept. 7. Call 202-462-8848.

Help immigrants learn English by volunteering for the Jewish Federation's
Community Resettlement Program. Volunteers work with individuals or a family,
helping them learn English so they can pass the naturalization tests and become
U.S. citizens. Tutors also offer basic orientation for living in the area.
Experience is not required; the next training session will be Wednesday, Sept.
22, from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Jewish Federation's offices, 6101 Montrose Rd.,
Rockville. Call Geri Elias, 301-230-7206.


Museum News

The Kreeger Museum, 2401 Foxhall Rd. NW, displays 20th-century art and
sculpture. Volunteers are urgently needed to assist at the front desk and with
administrative tasks. The time commitment is three days per month, 10 a.m. to
12:15 p.m. and/or 1 to 3:15 p.m., Tuesdays through Saturdays. Call Alexis
Ehrgott, 202-337-3050.

The National Museum of Women in the Arts sponsors an arts education speakers
program. Trained lecturers visit local clubs, schools or other organizations and
give a 45-minute slide presentation about the museum and its collection. The art
lecture can be tailored to fit the interests of the audience. There's a $ 50
donation requested. Call Andrea Leifer-Schless, 202-783-7997.


Mentor Teens

The Maya Angelou Public Charter School, 2100 13th St. NW (at 13th and V streets
NW), is recruiting volunteer tutors to help teens living in the District stay in
school. Volunteers attend one of the training sessions to be held Aug. 16, 17,
18, 31 and Sept. 1 from 6:30 to 8 p.m. Call Samantha Buckingham, 202-939-9080 or
e-mail tutorsmapcshotmail.com.


Hot Line Training

The Mental Health Association of Montgomery County is interviewing new
volunteers for its hot line response training program. Volunteers should be 18
or older and able to work for five hours per week for at least one year. Shifts
are offered around the clock. Training covers listening skills, crisis
intervention techniques and basic information on depression, family stress and
mental illness. Call 301-424-0656.


Clean Up

The seventh annual "Clean Up the World" campaign will be held Sept. 17-19
worldwide. Started in Australia, the project promotes local clean-up efforts in
parks, streams, fields, roadsides and beaches. Organizations and individuals who
want to get involved can obtain promotional and instructional materials from the
national organizers. Call 401-849-9600.


Emotional Support

Haven of Northern Virginia, 4606 Ravensworth Rd., Annandale, needs volunteers to
provide emotional support for the recently bereaved, people who are terminally
ill and their families. Volunteers must be available during weekdays; training
starts in September. Orientation for prospective volunteers will be Aug. 19 and
31 and Sept. 8 at 10 a.m. Call 703-941-7000.


Help the Homeless

The Arlington Community Temporary Shelter serves women and children who are
homeless or abused. Volunteers are needed to mentor families, guiding them to
self-sufficiency. Volunteers also tutor or play with the children in the shelter
and work in the thrift shop, which sells clothing and merchandise to raise funds
for shelter support. Training for new volunteers begins Saturday, Sept. 18.
Prospective volunteers are interviewed before training. Call 703-522-8858.

The Volunteer Center of Fairfax County plans a community day of service on
Saturday, Oct. 23, focusing on the homeless, emergency shelters and transitional
housing. Nonprofit, congregational, school and business groups are invited to
participate in this year's Volunteer Fest. For information, call 703-246-3460 or
visit www.volunteerfairfax.org.


Volunteer Managers

The Family Works, a parent-child literacy project in Montgomery County, is
supported by the Volunteer Maryland program. The full-time assignment is for one
year and carries a modest stipend and education grants. Spanish-speaking
applicants are especially welcome. Resumes can be faxed to 301-294-4962.

OAR of Fairfax County, 10640 Page Ave., Fairfax, helps inmates and their
families break the cycle of crime. The organization has openings for program
assistants and administrative aides. Volunteers are always welcome to work with
incarcerated clients who are preparing to return to society. Call Janeth Welch,
703-246-3033, or fax resumes to: 703-273-7554.




LOAD-DATE: August 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              94 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 2, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Fraud Charge In IOC; Kim's Son Indicted For Lying to FBI

Amy Shipley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 715 words



The son of a prominent International Olympic Committee official was indicted
yesterday in federal court for lying to the FBI and using immigration documents
knowingly obtained through fraudulent means.

Jung Hoon Kim, also known as John Kim, is the second person charged in
connection with the Justice Department's eight-month investigation into the Salt
Lake Olympic scandal. Kim's father, Un Yong Kim, a member of the IOC's 11-member
executive board, could not be reached to comment.

Last month, a Salt Lake City businessman pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor tax
charge for covering up a phony employment arrangement with John Kim. The
businessman, David E. Simmons, admitted the job was designed to gain lawful
permanent residency status for Kim and to influence his father to vote to award
the 2002 Winter Olympics to Salt Lake City.

Ten IOC members were expelled or forced to resign for accepting cash and gifts
in exchange for voting to award the 2002 Winter Games to Salt Lake City. The
elder Kim received a severe reprimand from the IOC, but was not expelled.

In a 16-count indictment returned yesterday in Brooklyn, John Kim was charged
with using a green card obtained through an elaborate scheme that included sham
agreements and invoices and the falsifying of documents to government labor and
immigration agencies.

John Kim also was charged with making false statements to federal agents during
a Feb. 23 interview that was part of the criminal investigation of the scandal.
That charge was detailed in a one-count indictment returned in Salt Lake City.
The 17 counts each carry a penalty of five to 15 years in prison.

John Kim's attorney, Howard Graff, said in a statement yesterday that his client
denied all allegations of wrongdoing. Graff also said the indictment was
expected and based on allegations made by Simmons "which have been inconsistent,
illogical and untenable."

The indictments detail a complex arrangement involving John Kim, Simmons and the
Salt Lake committee that bid for the Olympic Games. At the request of a Salt
Lake bid official, Simmons hired John Kim, a South Korean national, to work for
his company Keystone Communications, the indictments say. Simmons agreed to
treat John Kim as a full-time salaried employee so he could obtain legal
resident status, provided the Salt Lake City bid committee reimbursed Keystone
for John Kim's salary if he performed no valuable services, according to the
indictments.

John Kim's salary, initially paid at a rate of $ 50,000 per year and later
increased to $ 70,383, was paid both by the bid committee and John Kim himself
to keep his eligibility for a green card intact, the indictments say. The
payments were "disguised and concealed through the use of sham 'consulting'
contracts and 'video services' invoices," according to the indictments.

In a recent statement through a family spokesman, John Kim accused Simmons of
making "inconsistent" allegations "to justify his business failures,
scapegoating me in the process."

Of the alleged arrangement between Keystone and the Salt Lake City bid committee
regarding his employment, John Kim said: "I never was party to it. . . . I never
knew anything about it."

John Kim also announced his decision to file a lawsuit in Seoul, charging
Simmons with fraud based on his statements to the Justice Department. The
lawsuit was filed last week, according to Bill Schecter, the spokesman.

John Kim said he returned his green card to the U.S. Embassy in Seoul on Aug. 6
and that he rejected a plea agreement from federal prosecutors, saying in the
statement, "I shall not yield to intimidation despite assurances that I can get
a 'slap on the wrist' in exchange for testimony . . ."

In the statement issued yesterday, Schecter said John Kim had no need for a job
to ensure his legal residency status because he had been told by former bid
committee president Tom Welch that his "immigration needs would be fully
satisfied by influential and high officials."

Un Yong Kim was considered a candidate to succeed IOC President Juan Antonio
Samaranch before the scandal over the Olympic site selection process erupted
last December.

The Internal Revenue Service and the Customs Service also are involved in the
investigation.


LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              95 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 2, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrants' Growing Role in U.S. Poverty Cited; Advocacy Group Notes Family
Size, Education Levels

Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 823 words


Immigrants are a large and growing factor in the stubborn level of poverty seen
in the United States over the past two decades because newcomers to the country
are more likely to be poor and to remain so longer than in the past, according
to a new study.

The report, to be released today by the Center for Immigration Studies, says the
number of impoverished people in the nation's immigrant-headed households nearly
tripled from 2.7 million in 1979 to 7.7 million in 1997.

During that same period, the number of poor households headed by immigrants
increased by 123 percent while the number of immigrant households increased by
68 percent, according to the study. The share of immigrants living in poverty
rose from 15.5 percent to 21.8 percent, the report notes, a change that some
analysts say holds troubling implications for the nation's future. About 12
percent of the nation's native-born population lives in poverty, a figure that
has hardly changed in 20 years.

"Each successive wave of immigrants is doing worse and worse," said Steven A.
Camarota, the report's author. "Each wave of immigrants has a higher poverty
rate, and a much larger share of their children will grow up in poverty."

The report by the center, a Washington-based research group that advocates
reduced immigration, uses information compiled in the 1980 and 1990 censuses, as
well as information contained in the March 1998 Current Population Survey, to
make its case that poverty in the United States is increasingly being driven by
the nation's immigration policy.

The report says immigrants are more likely to be poor because they have higher
levels of unemployment, have lower education levels and have larger families
than native-born families. And much of their economic slide has come despite the
fact that the nation's economy has been in good shape for much of the past 20
years, the report notes.

The report is rekindling the sharp-edged debate over whether high levels of
immigration benefit the nation. The number of immigrants living in the United
States has almost tripled since 1970, dramatically altering the nation's
demographic and social mix because the vast majority of current immigrants are
either Hispanic or Asian. Overall, immigrants now account for nearly 10 percent
of the nation's residents, the highest level since the 1920s. About one in four
Californians and one in three residents of New York are foreign-born.

But while many advocates credit immigrants with filling jobs that few others
want, revitalizing previously neglected city neighborhoods from New York to Los
Angeles and engendering a level of ambition and enterprise often unmatched by
native-born residents, others see high levels of immigration as a burden the
country can no longer bear.

If current levels of immigration remain in place, an estimated 10 million new
immigrants will settle in the United States within the next decade, the report
says. Increasing the number of poor people through immigration complicates
current anti-poverty efforts, it adds. Moreover, if immigrant children grow up
in poverty, they will be more likely to turn to crime, to have higher teenage
pregnancy rates and to do poorly in school, the report says. Thus, the report
calls for restrictions on the number of "low-skill" immigrants allowed into the
country.

"This report clearly illustrates the foreignization of poverty in the United
States," said George J. Borjas, a professor of public policy at Harvard
University. "Nowadays, the economic structure is very different. The economy
isn't creating many new jobs for unskilled people."

Immigration advocates objected to the report's conclusions, saying they overlook
the proliferation of low-wage jobs in the U.S. economy as well as the
contributions that immigrants have historically made to the nation, frequently
through sheer enterprise and hard work. Studies have found that immigrant
families have a higher propensity for home ownership and for starting small
businesses.

"What really matters here is the growth in low-wage jobs," said Sonia Perez, a
deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy
group. "Many working people are still in poverty."

The report's author, however, pointed to other research that indicates that many
immigrants and their descendants are having a difficult time making economic
progress. A study released last month by the California Senate found that
Hispanic workers in that state lag far behind all other groups in wages and
educational attainment, even through the third generation.

"Even if we make the most optimistic assumptions about how the kids of
[immigrants] will do, the fact remains that we have grown our poor population
and that has implications for societal stability," said Camarota. "We are
potentially creating a new underclass in America."

CONTRASTING TRENDS (This chart was not available)



LOAD-DATE: September 02, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CH,,TWP

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              96 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 4, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 728 words


Haitians Protest Treatment


MIAMI--Scores of Haitians protested what they said is the unfair treatment of
their countrymen compared to the way U.S. officials treat immigrants from other
nations, particularly Cuba.

Holding signs reading, "Freedom yes, deportation no," and chanting and singing,
about 150 people demonstrated yesterday outside a detention center, seeking the
immediate release of two Haitians who have been in Immigration and
Naturalization Service custody for months, as well as the release of others held
across the country.

They also demanded repeal of a tough 1996 U.S. law requiring deportation of
immigrants who commit crimes, even years after they complete their sentences,
saying it is applied differently to different groups.

"We are . . . asking for the 1996 law to be repealed because it is unfair to
blacks and to Haitians," Marleine Bastien, president of Haitian Women of Miami
and an organizer of the demonstration, said. "It is practically refugee
cleansing."


Woman Donates Kidney


MINNEAPOLIS--A woman donated a kidney to a complete stranger, undergoing surgery
and a battery of physical and psychological tests simply because she knew there
was a long waiting list for organs.

Experts said that transplants in which neither donor nor recipient knows the
other person were almost unheard of until a few years ago.

In this case, the 50-year-old donor was "purely motivated by altruism," said
Cheryl Jacobs, a social worker who took part in the psychological screening of
the woman.

The donor and the recipient both asked to keep their identities secret, even
from each other. The transplant took place early last month but was not
disclosed until Thursday, after the patients had left the hospital at the
University of Minnesota.

Transplanted kidneys generally come from a cadaver or a living relative.
Transplant programs have been reluctant to accept kidney donations from living
strangers for several reasons, including concern about exposing the donor to the
risks of surgery.

The 42,000 people on the nation's kidney transplant waiting list generally will
have to wait three to five years for a new organ.

In 1998, there were 11,990 kidney transplants in the United States, and just
over 4,000 came from living donors. Of those, 163 were unrelated to the
recipients, according to the United Network on Organ Sharing.


Muscular Dystrophy Therapy


COLUMBUS, Ohio--A 36-year-old traffic controller received a gene therapy
injection for muscular dystrophy to test the safety of a possible treatment for
the debilitating disease.

The Muscular Dystrophy Association said Donavon Decker of Huron, S.D., is the
first person to receive the injection. A muscle on the top of one of his feet
was injected with genes for a missing muscle protein. The other foot received a
placebo injection in the one-hour hospital procedure Thursday night.

Researchers will take biopsies to compare the muscles in six weeks while also
monitoring Decker for any adverse reactions.


Addenda


* WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.--A twin-engine Beechcraft King Air BE-90 clipped a
building and crashed while trying to make an emergency landing in the dark,
killing the eight people aboard. The victims were pilot George Rivera;
Constantine Peter Chambers, 64, who founded the Chambers Hair Institute; Andrea
Coolidge, 31; Shawn Meckelburg, 19; Erica Jones, 22; Mindy Marino, 17; Peter
Passaris; and Alan Steven Rivera, 19. All were from Florida.


* WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.--John A. "Junior" Gotti was sentenced to nearly 6 1/2 years
in federal prison and fined $ 1 million for following his father as boss of the
Gambino crime family. He pleaded guilty in April to bribery, extortion and other
charges and has until Oct. 18 to report to prison.


* HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif.--Seven of the eight miles of famed "Surf City, USA"
beach along the Southern California coast reopened Thursday after fecal bacteria
that forced them closed this summer all but disappeared. Health officials said
they believed urban runoff in storm drains--rather than a sewage leak--may have
caused the beach fouling.


* CLEVELAND--One woman was killed and more than three dozen people were injured
after a dense fog led to accidents involving 70 cars and trucks along a 32-mile
stretch of the Ohio Turnpike, officials said.



LOAD-DATE: September 04, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              97 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 13, 1999, Monday, Final Edition

A Nation of Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 342 words


Contrary to Richard Estrada's assertions that a common civic culture is
threatened by immigrants [op-ed, Aug. 24], recent research confirms that
contemporary immigrant families are doing what newcomers have always done:
slowly, but surely, embracing the cultural norms that are part of life in the
United States, including adoption of English as their primary language.

In a recent study, Pepperdine University scholar Gregory Rodriguez analyzed
census data to examine four quantifiable indices of immigrant assimilation. He
found the following:

English language acquisition: Within 10 years of arrival, 76.3 percent of
immigrants spoke English with high proficiency. With second and third
generations, almost all children of immigrants spoke English proficiently. In
most cases, the native language of immigrants is lost after a few generations in
the United States.

Citizenship: The longer immigrants live in the United States, the more likely
they are to become citizens. In 1990, 76.4 percent of immigrants who had been in
this country for 40 years were naturalized.

Homeownership: Immigrants are making significant strides toward homeownership.
Within 20 years of arrival, 60.9 percent owned their own homes (as of 1990). In
13 of the 15 most populous immigrant groups, two-thirds of households were
owner-occupied after 26 years of residence in the United States.

Intermarriage: Both foreign-born Asians and foreign-born Hispanics have higher
rates of intermarriage than do U.S.-born whites and blacks. By the third
generation, intermarriage rates for Asians and Latinos are extremely high: More
than 33 percent of third-generation Hispanic women are married to non-Hispanics
and 41 percent of third-generation Asian American women have non-Asian spouses.

Far from being at odds with the national interest, current immigrants prove that
this nation of immigrants is strong enough to absorb people of different
backgrounds within its borders.

FRANK SHARRY

Executive Director

National Immigration Forum

Washington

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              98 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 18, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigrants Out of Poverty

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A19; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 297 words



It is baffling that you would permit such an uncritical article about a "study"
from a known anti-immigrant group to be published ["Immigrants' Growing Role in
U.S. Poverty Cited," news story, Sept. 2].

Here are some facts that were missing from the article: First, while the study
alleges that immigrants hurt the native-born, the study also concedes that the
poverty rate for native-born Americans has declined while immigration has
continued at a healthy pace. So where is the harm that the immigrants were
supposed to cause? The study's author would have a better case if he could show
native-born poverty rates are on the increase, but the opposite is the case.

Second, the article did not contain the most important fact of all: Poverty
rates for immigrants decline significantly with time spent in the United States.
An analysis of 1996 Census data by the Cato Institute shows that within 15 years
of arrival a typical immigrant has about the same poverty rate as natives, and
within approximately 20 years of arrival an immigrant's poverty rate is actually
lower than it is for the native-born. Also within 20 years, more than 60 percent
of immigrants own their own homes, according to research by Gregory Rodriguez
for the National Immigration Forum.

The Center for Immigration Studies, which produced the study, was started by the
organizers of the anti-immigrant group Federation for American Immigration
Reform. The center's current executive director used to work for that
organization. The public and policymakers should be aware that this misleading
study was designed to be just another attack on immigrants.

-- Palma R. Yanni

The writer is a member of

the executive committee of the

American Immigration Lawyers

Association.



LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              99 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 30, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Jailed Immigrants On Hunger Strike; Men Being Detained by INS Protest
Deportation Effort

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 962 words



At least a dozen men jailed by the Washington office of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service are participating in a hunger strike to protest
government efforts to deport them that have kept them in prison for months and
in some cases years.

Most of the protesters at the Piedmont Regional Jail in Farmville, Va., face
deportation because of convictions for crimes ranging from distribution of
marijuana to armed robbery. But they have been detained indefinitely because
their countries of origin--Cuba, Cambodia and Iran, among them--refuse to take
them back.

Others don't have criminal records at all, including a West African immigrant
seeking political asylum who said he has been held by the INS since he arrived
at Dulles International Airport nearly three years ago. In addition, some of the
inmates have convinced judges that they should not be deported but remain
incarcerated by the INS for various reasons.

One Cuban detainee who said in a telephone interview that he had not eaten in 15
days was placed on intravenous fluids briefly on Monday, and jail officials said
they persuaded another inmate who had gone without food for a week to eat
Tuesday. Officials are monitoring the health of the other protesters as well.

It is unclear how rigorous the hunger strike is. Inmates said they are
sustaining themselves on water and an occasional bite. Lewis Barlow, the jail
superintendent, said that the strikers have been refusing meals but that most
have been purchasing soup and snacks at the jail's commissary.

INS detention policies have been the target of hunger strikes before, most
notably last spring by Cuban detainees at the federal Krome Detention Center
outside Miami. That protest, along with a series of federal court rulings
against the INS policies, led the government to begin reviewing deportation
cases and releasing some immigrants who were not considered dangerous or a
flight risk.

At the time, the Washington office of the INS, which has jurisdiction over the
District and Virginia, said it was examining 43 cases of individuals under
long-term detention to identify those eligible for release pending deportation.
But the hunger strikers at Piedmont and their attorneys said they have seen no
sign of such a review.

"Theoretically, they're supposed to have a procedure, but in practice it hasn't
happened," said Beverly Yeskolski, a lawyer who represents Sophan Phith, 22, a
Cambodian refugee who has lived in Chesapeake, Va., since age 4. "These people
are sitting in jail indefinitely. . . . There's nothing to stop INS from keeping
these people in prison for the rest of their lives."

Phith was convicted on a marijuana distribution charge in 1997 and served a
nine-month prison term, followed by enrollment in a work-release program. The
INS picked him up in December but has been unable to expel him because Cambodia
does not accept deportees from the United States.

"I made a mistake in high school. I committed a crime. But I served nine months,
and afterwards the American kids went home, but I'm still here," he said. "I'm
going to stay on hunger strike until there's some justice. . . . I'm weak now.
Sometimes, when I walk, I black out."

Several residents of the Washington area are among the protesters. Mohammad
Haghverdi, 47, of Waldorf, a permanent resident from Iran, has been detained
since March because of a 1994 misdemeanor battery conviction. Juan Benito
Rodriguez, 35, of Alexandria, a Cuban-born permanent resident, was convicted on
a cocaine charge last year.

Inmate Elvis Lewis, 40, of Stafford, said the hunger strike was also intended to
draw attention to the "horrible" conditions at the jail. He said the 60 or so
INS detainees there are not separated from other inmates. The facility is
crowded and the lights remain on 24 hours a day, he said.

Lewis, who fled to the United States from Grenada in 1981 and faces deportation
because of a 1984 misdemeanor marijuana conviction, said the strikers also want
to be held in facilities closer to their families and attorneys. The jail is
about 60 miles west of Richmond and about 170 miles from Washington.

INS spokeswoman Ernestine Fobbs said that the agency reviews the cases of
deportees on a regular basis and that two officers have been sent to the jail to
"address the needs of each [protester] and hear their concerns."

"We're monitoring the situation. . . . We are taking this seriously and are
working toward a reasonable solution of the matter," she said. "We will ensure
that all detained aliens in our custody will be treated with dignity and
respect."

Jail officials said the only inmate who has required medical attention is
Claudio Monreal, 37, a Cuban-born construction worker from Harrisonburg, Va.,
who was convicted last year of assault and battery for spitting on a police
officer. He has been held by the INS since November 1998, though a judge in
April decided he should not be deported.

"I won my case, but they're still holding me, and I don't know why," said
Monreal, who was placed on intravenous fluids Monday. "I'm not a threat to
society."

Two of the protesters say they are being detained for reasons other than a
previous criminal conviction.

"I don't know why I'm jailed. I've spent almost three years in jail, and I want
my freedom," said Ali Camara, 44, an immigrant from Guinea who apparently
applied for and was denied political asylum. "I'm seeking protection against
torture. I can't go back to Guinea, because I will be tortured by the
government."

Like many of the detainees, Camara speaks little English and does not have an
attorney. INS officials said they were reviewing the cases and could not yet
comment on the circumstances of Camara's detention.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              100 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 1, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

THE RED PENCIL

Chris Redgate

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C09; THE RED PENCIL

LENGTH: 117 words


I want to write pure English.


Longtime Pencil readers know that pure English is an oxymoron. It doesn't exist.
Instead, English is a language primarily built, like the United States, by
immigrants.  Whether you choose a word like farce, which immigrated from France,
or a word like sky, which immigrated from Scandanavia, you have a "foreign'
element that purists despise.  John Dryden, a famous 17th-century writer, tired
to purify his English by first translating his sentences into Latin.  He wanted
to check his English usage by comparing it to "a more stable language.' Of
course, Latin is still dead, while English still thrives.  Hmm.


(C) 1999 Redgate / wrytoraol.com


LOAD-DATE: October 01, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              101 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 9, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Region's Immigrants Ahead Financially, Study Finds

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1066 words


Immigrants and their families living in the Washington-Baltimore area appear
better off than those in the rest of the country and are slightly less likely to
be poor than their American-born neighbors here are, according to a new study of
U.S. census data.

Only 7 percent of those in immigrant-headed households locally live below the
poverty line, compared with nearly 22 percent nationally, the study says. The
poverty rate for the region's non-immigrant residents is 11 percent, according
to the study, compared with 12 percent nationally.

The figures, included in a national report by the Center for Immigration
Studies, highlight the unusual nature of the region's fast-growing immigrant
population -- which is more educated, more diverse and, apparently, less poor
than in other cities.

Of the 11 metropolitan areas in the country with the largest immigrant
populations, the Washington-Baltimore region ranked last in immigrant poverty.
It was the only one in which immigrants appeared less likely to be poor than
natives, though the difference was small enough to be explained by statistical
error.

"Washington certainly stands out," said Steven A. Camarota, director of research
at the center, which advocates new limits on immigration. He said the findings
do not undermine the study's argument that immigration is a major factor in the
growth of poverty in the United States.

"If immigrants had the same education levels nationally as they do in the D.C.
area, then there would be no problem," he said. "Unfortunately, D.C. is far and
away the exception, not the rule."

Camarota defined immigrant households as those in which the head is
foreign-born, but he also counted people not related to the household head as
being on their own. He said immigrants may appear poorer than his figures
indicate because many also support relatives in their homelands who are not
considered household members.

Still, some advocates in Washington's immigrant communities were surprised by
the findings.

"I just don't see immigrant families doing much better here than other areas,"
said Arli Eicher, coordinator of the D.C. Immigrant Coalition.

Others criticized the study for not considering the region's high cost of
living. It used the federal government's definition of poverty, which for a
typical family of four is an income of about $ 16,400.

"You couldn't survive in the Washington area if you were making that," said John
Liss, director of the immigrant-dominant Tenants' and Workers' Support Committee
in Alexandria. "A family of four could be making $ 20,000 in Kansas and might be
doing pretty good, but here they'd be eating dirt."

Camarota said regional differences in living expenses would not explain why the
poverty rate among immigrants here was lower than in San Francisco, New York and
other cities with high costs of living. Instead, he said, the lower poverty rate
might be explained by Washington's booming economy, the inclusion of
foreign-born diplomats as immigrants and the fact that immigrants here appear
better educated.

Analysis of data from 1996 and 1997, he said, showed that more than half of all
adults living in immigrant households in the area had completed college --
compared with 35 percent of other adult residents here and 24 percent of adult
immigrants nationally.

Local immigrants, he said, are more likely than other area residents to be high
school dropouts -- but their dropout rate is half the national rate for
immigrants.

"Education is the single most important predictor of poverty status," he said.
"The real question then is, 'Why are D.C. immigrants more educated?' It probably
has to do with the local economy and the kind of immigrants who would be drawn
to work in it."

The area's immigrant work force is polarized, with unusually high levels of
employment both in high-income technical and low-income service jobs. Large
differences also exist by country of origin, with many immigrants from Central
America arriving with little schooling and many from Asia bringing college
degrees.

But Robert Manning, a Georgetown sociologist who studies the local immigrant
population, said those on both ends of the educational spectrum are faring well
because of the region's labor shortage. "The economy is sucking them into jobs
as fast as they come," he said.

Saul Solorzano, director of the Central American Resource Center, said even
those employed as low-wage restaurant workers or janitors here are more likely
to live above the poverty line than in other cities -- in part because so many
are working multiple jobs.

"I've lived in California, and the competition for jobs, the types of jobs
available, the salaries -- I can tell you from experience that things are better
here," he said. "The economy is great right now for immigrants . . . and
immigration has been good for the economy."


Immigrants and Poverty

Seven percent of local people in immigrant-headed households live below the
poverty line, as compared with the national rate of 22 percent. How Washington
measures up to other metropolitan areas:

Poverty rates for people residing in immigrant and native households:


Metropolitan areas Immigrant (percent) Native (percent)

Phoenix 37.8% 11.2%

Houston --

Galveston --

Brazoria 34.0 12.0

Los Angeles --

Riverside --

Orange County 26.3 12.5

Nationally* 21.8 12.0

Miami --

Fort Lauderdale 20.8 9.3

New York --

N.J. --

Long Island 20.2 12.3

Philadelphia --

Wilmington, Del.

-- Atlantic City 18.2 12.0

Boston --

Worcester --

Lawrence 17.4 8.7

Chicago --

Kenosha, Wis.  16.7 9.6

Dallas -- Fort Worth 16.6 9.5

San Francisco --

Oakland --

San Jose 10.1 6.0

Washington --

Baltimore 7.2 11.3

* Based on 1997 census data only.


SOURCE: Center for Immigration Studies' analysis of census data for 1996-97


Below the Poverty Line

(In percent)

Nationally*

Washington


Immigrant households

Nationally: 21.8

Washington: 7.2


Native households

Nationally: 12.0

Washington: 11.3


*Based on 1997 census data only.


LOAD-DATE: October 09, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              102 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 9, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Poor in the USA

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A21; FREE FOR ALL

LENGTH: 186 words



That an immigration lawyer would defend mass immigration's status quo
["Immigrants Out of Poverty," Free for All, Sept. 18] is not surprising, but
Palma Yanni, executive committee member of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, also defends what my organization cannot: the trend by recent
immigrants to arrive and remain in poverty.

Citing a Cato Institute study, Yanni rationalizes the poverty today's immigrants
experience by arguing that it takes about two decades for immigrant poverty
rates to match those of natives. In fact, the poverty rate for households headed
by 1970s immigrants is still significantly higher than that of natives.

But even if she were correct, no one disputes the fact that one in five
immigrants now lives in poverty--and for their young children the figure is one
in three. Unfortunately, in an effort to justify continued high immigration,
Yanni wants to minimize a serious and growing problem for those newcomers who
already live among us.

--Steve A. Camarota

The writer is director

of research at the Center

for Immigration Studies.




LOAD-DATE: October 09, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              103 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 15, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

U.S. Naturalization Rate Drops; 35% of Nation's Foreign-Born Are Citizens, the
Least This Century

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1192 words



Barely one-third of the nation's immigrants have obtained citizenship, a smaller
proportion than at any time in the past century, according to a new U.S. Census
Bureau study that raises questions about how well the record numbers of
immigrants arriving here are integrating into American life.

Only 35 percent of the foreign-born people in the United States in 1997 were
naturalized citizens, compared with 64 percent in 1970, according to figures the
government will release today. In the Washington area, the citizenship rate is
slightly higher, perhaps 40 percent, according to census data released this
year.

By comparison, at the height of the nation's last great wave of immigration in
the early part of this century, about half of the foreign-born population
nationally had become citizens.

The slow pace of attaining citizenship, which could stymie the growth of
political power for new immigrant communities, cannot be explained simply by the
fact that more of today's foreign-born are newcomers than in 1970. After
adjusting for that difference, demographers found that the citizenship rate
should have fallen only to 55 percent.

The sharper drop has been attributed in part to the rising population of illegal
immigrants who cannot easily become citizens, the government's immense backlog
in naturalization applications, and, some say, an apparent lack of interest in
citizenship by many immigrants, even longtime residents who arrived 10 or 20
years ago.

In 1970, about 90 percent of foreign-born people who had been living in the
United States more than two decades were citizens. By 1997, the figure had
fallen to 67 percent. Similarly, 58 percent of immigrants living in this country
10 to 14 years were citizens in 1970. In 1997, 30 percent of them were, the
report said.

"It can have serious consequences," said Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas
Rivera Policy Institute, a think tank that focuses on the Latino population. "At
a basic level, it impedes the process of integration for immigrants. . . . And
it weakens the ties of accountability between elected officials and these
communities."

Pachon said the decline in citizenship in recent years is the result of policy
changes by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service that have made it
more difficult and more expensive for residents to naturalize. For example, he
said, the INS has stopped using community organizations to help process
applications and has increased the application fee from $ 45 in 1990 to $ 200.
"We have more foreign-born residents now than ever before, and it should be an
overriding goal to integrate these folks into American life," he said. "But
we've set up a bureaucratic system that's horrendous."

The census study said the foreign-born population climbed to a record 25.8
million in 1997, with 9 million naturalized citizens and 16.7 million
noncitizens.

This past summer, as many as 1.8 million people were awaiting action on
citizenship applications submitted as long as two or three years earlier. The
INS still has a backlog of 1.4 million applicants, and nearly 1 million more are
waiting to receive green cards.

In addition, according to INS estimates, there are at least 5 million illegal
immigrants in the country and large numbers of other immigrants who have
temporary residency permits. Strict new immigration laws that took effect in
1996 make it much more difficult for these people to win permanent residency,
much less citizenship.

"I think most people who come here want to become citizens," said Christina
Chavez Cook, an attorney for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education
Fund. "But there are a number of reasons people can't get to that point, and a
lot has to do with these new barriers. . . . You don't dare apply for permanent
residency, much less citizenship, when you're deportable."

K.C. McAlpin, deputy director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
said he also was disturbed by the decline in citizenship rates but cast it as a
troubling sign that immigrants were not assimilating into American society.

"We haven't encouraged new immigrants to learn English and our values and our
history, so it's not surprising that many of these people see the U.S. as a
geographical convenience where they can make money but have little interest in
becoming citizens," he said. "It's one of the reasons we need to reduce
immigration and do a better job of Americanizing the large numbers already
here."

Dianne Schmidley, co-author of the census study, said citizenship rates varied
strongly by region of origin, as did income, education, homeownership, health
insurance coverage and occupational status.

The citizenship rate for immigrants from Asia actually increased from 1990 to
1997, from 40 percent to 44 percent, she said. Immigrants from Europe and the
Caribbean also showed higher-than-average citizenship rates.

But immigrants from Mexico, who account for nearly 30 percent of the total
foreign-born population, were less likely to be citizens. In 1990, about 22
percent of the population had naturalized, Schmidley said. By 1997, the figure
was down to 15 percent.

"A lot of the overall decline has to do with Mexico. Because of its proximity,
immigrants from Mexico may not be as attached to this country as those who came
from farther away," Schmidley said. Other studies have shown that citizenship
rates are also closely related to education levels.

The decline in citizenship is expected to hit bottom soon, in part because fear
of anti-immigrant sentiment -- evidenced by ballot initiatives in California and
1996 laws cutting services for noncitizens -- has prompted large numbers of the
foreign-born to seek citizenship.

"It has pretty much gone as low as it's going to go," Schmidley said. "It can't
go down much further."


Database editor Sarah Cohen contributed to this report.


Naturalized Citizens

Percentage of immigrants who have become U.S. citizens

1970 64%

1980 51%

1990 41%

1997 35%


Foreign-Born Citizens

Only 35 percent of the foreign-born people in the United States in 1997 were
naturalized citizens. This represents a smaller share than at any time in the
past century.

Citizenship of foreign-born population

1900 67%*

1910 51*

1920 49

1930 58

1940 68

1950 79

1960 N/A

1970 64

1980 51

1990 41

1997 35


Naturalized citizens by region of birth


Foreign-born

population

(In millions) Percent


Total 25.8 35.1

Europe 4.3 53.3

Asia 6.8 44.3

Africa 0.6 34.8

Latin America 13.1 23.6

Central America 1.8 23.7

Mexico 7.0 14.9

South America 1.5 31.5

Northern America 0.5 43.8


A breakdown by length of residence shows that citizenship is falling regardless
of how long immigrants have lived in the country.


SOURCE: U.S. Bureau of the Census



LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CH,,JOHN ANDERSON

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              104 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 28, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

How Immigration Re-Slices the American Pie

Peter Skerry

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C02; BOOK WORLD

LENGTH: 885 words



HEAVEN'S DOOR

Immigration Policy and the American Economy

By George J. Borjas

Princeton Univ. 263 pp. $ 27.95

George Borjas's "Heaven's Door" is a tour de force on the economics of
immigration. In a policy area where emotion or ideology usually overwhelms
analysis, this is a stunning piece of research--nuanced, lucid and forceful. Yet
as a guide to immigration politics and policy, "Heaven's Door" is much less
rewarding.

With this book, Borjas, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government,
secures his place as the preeminent student of the economics of immigration. In
scores of popular and scholarly articles, he has for some time now been
highlighting the declining skills of newcomers arriving here. Now he presents a
full-blown analysis and critique of U.S. immigration policy. This is a tough but
fair-minded book, not a mean-spirited diatribe. As Borjas tell us, at the age of
8 he himself arrived in Miami with his widowed mother a week before the Cuban
missile crisis shut down the "freedom flights."

Borjas's argument is simple and persuasive, arguing that the primary effect of
immigration is not its overall contribution to the economy. He estimates that in
1998 immigration increased the national income by about $ 8 billion--less than $
30 per native-born person. And even these modest gains are almost certainly
wiped out by the costs of services to immigrants.

But if immigration doesn't much affect the size of the national economic pie, it
does affect how it is cut up. Borjas demonstrates that immigration generates
enormous wealth for employers and the highly skilled at the expense of unskilled
and disadvantaged natives. Specifically, he estimates that "almost half of the
decline in the relative wage of high school dropouts may be attributed to
immigration." Black Americans in particular are big losers, with immigration
reducing the income of the average native black person about $ 300 per year.

Borjas's policy proposals follow from this analysis. He argues against the
present system of awarding visas overwhelmingly on the basis of ties to family
members already here and for a new system based on immigrant skills. He also
argues for a reduction in overall numbers, to around 500,000 legal immigrants
annually. Yet in addition to these, he favors generous refugee admissions.

As for illegal immigration, Borjas advocates stiffer penalties on those who
employ illegal aliens. He comes as close as he can--without actually doing
so--to endorsing a "national identification system" that would enable employers
to reliably distinguish legal from illegal workers. But he would go further and
impose stiff financial penalties on illegals themselves, and even suggests
seizing their assets before deporting them.

Whether or not one agrees with such proposals, questions arise as to how
realistic they are. Borjas correctly argues that stemming illegal immigration is
critical to any overall reform. Yet he has nothing to say about how those stiff
penalties will be imposed on employers who have repeatedly persuaded Congress to
soften them. As for his proposals for getting tougher on illegal immigrants,
they show a surprising naivete. The political will for harsher treatment of
illegals is just not there. And even if it were, moving in that direction would
be extremely divisive and imprudent.

This highlights a revealing blind spot in Borjas's understanding of the politics
of immigration. One would scarcely learn from his analysis that a major obstacle
to stemming illegal immigration is the inconvenience any such effort imposes on
ordinary Americans, many of whom are in any event imbued with the notion that we
are a nation of immigrants. Instead, Borjas points to "powerful interest groups"
that have "considerable financial incentives . . . to ensure that the current
policy remains in place." Indeed, he concludes that "the political lines . . .
are clearly drawn and "that the immigration debate is best viewed as a political
struggle between those who win and those who lose."

Yet this is simply not true. One would never know from Borjas that an important
force blocking reform is immigrant groups themselves. Nor would one realize that
significant roles in maintaining the status quo are played by the Catholic
Church and human rights organizations, which see themselves as champions of the
very disadvantaged who, Borjas demonstrates, lose from current policy.

Borjas argues persuasively that the economic benefits of immigration go to a few
well-organized interests, while the costs are borne by the unorganized many. And
as an economist he explicitly ignores all costs and benefits that are not
quantifiable. But as a policy analyst this leaves Borjas ignoring the large
questions--the impact of immigration on the environment, how immigrants are
changing our sense of national identity--that for many Americans are at the
heart of the immigration debate.

Yet despite such shortcomings, this is an enormously impressive book. In no
small part this is due to the clarity and honesty of an analysis that allows us
to learn from it while at the same time gauging its limitations.


Peter Skerry, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who teaches political
science at Claremont McKenna College.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              105 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 29, 1999, Friday, Final Edition

INS Says Citizenship Backlog Cut; San Francisco, Houston Face 19-Month Delays;
D.C., 10 Months

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 581 words



The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service announced yesterday that it
slashed the nation's immense backlog in citizenship applications by nearly a
quarter last year, and said applicants can now expect to wait about 12 months to
become citizens, down from 28 months a year ago.

Attorney General Janet Reno and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner announced the
figures in a news conference to highlight progress in reforming the troubled
naturalization program. But Republican critics immediately questioned the INS
statistics, and others complained that the agency had fallen behind in other
work--such as issuing green cards--while focusing on the citizenship backlog.

The backlog reached a high of 1.8 million applications last year, with
immigrants in some cities facing waits as long as three or four years after
submitting their paperwork. The delays led advocates to complain that the INS
was making it too difficult for immigrants to naturalize even as citizenship
levels among the nation's booming foreign-born population fell to the lowest
level in a century.

But Meissner said the INS is on track now to reduce the average processing time
to six months by the end of the next year. She said the INS processed a record
1.2 million applications last year, twice as many as the year before.

"Welcoming new citizens is one of the most important things we do as a nation,"
she said, attributing the progress to new technology and staffing made possible
by $ 176 million that Congress appropriated last year to boost naturalization
efforts.

INS officials said the average wait for immigrants applying for citizenship
varies from city to city, with those in San Francisco and Houston facing the
longest delays, about 19 months. Locally, immigrants in Virginia, Maryland and
the District applying for citizenship can expect an average wait of nine to 10
months.

Meissner stressed that the INS speeded the naturalization process without
lowering standards. Three years ago, Republicans accused the Clinton
administration of naturalizing immigrants without conducting thorough criminal
background checks.

Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a think tank that
studies the nation's Latino population, attributed the agency's success in part
to a sharp drop in the number of immigrants applying for citizenship, from
nearly 1.6 million in 1997 to less than half that this year. "People know
there's a long wait to get your papers processed, so they get discouraged from
applying," he said.

Crystal Williams, a spokesperson for the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, praised the reduction in the naturalization backlog but complained
that the INS has yet to help the nearly 1 million people waiting for green
cards.

INS officials say they now face an average wait of 33 months for green cards,
though the agency hopes to reduce that to 24 months in the coming year. "In the
meantime," Williams said, "businesses are desperate for employees and families
are waiting to be legally reunited."

Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), chairman of the House immigration subcommittee,
questioned the INS claims altogether, noting that agency officials testified
last year that the average processing time for naturalization applications was
14, not 28 months.

INS spokesperson Maria Cordona said Smith was using figures for applicants who
had just finished the process; the longer estimate was for applicants beginning
the process.



LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              106 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 6, 1999, Saturday, Final Edition

Prosecution in Darkness

Nat Hentoff

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 741 words



Around the country, 24 immigrants, most of them Muslim or of Arab descent, are
being detained -- that is, imprisoned -- by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which intends to deport them.

None of them, nor any of their lawyers, has been allowed to see the evidence
against them or to confront their accusers. This denial of fundamental due
process is justified on the grounds of national security.

In 1996, the president signed the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act, which authorized secret evidence. A federal district judge in Newark, N.J.,
William Walls, has now described this as "government processes initiated and
prosecuted in darkness." (The use of secret evidence, however, goes back to the
1950s).

Although many active lawsuits, in various stages, are attacking this use of
secret evidence, Judge Walls is the first jurist to flatly declare the use of
such evidence unconstitutional.

His decision was in the case of Hany Mahmoud Kiareldeen, a Palestinian who has
been in this country for nine years, managed an electronics store in New Jersey
and is married to an American citizen.

First arrested for having an expired student visa, he later was accused of
meeting in his New Jersey home, a week before the 1993 World Trade Center
bombing, with one of the men convicted in that attack. He also was accused of
threatening to kill Attorney General Janet Reno.

The source of this classified evidence is the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force.
But, as Judge Walls has noted, the INS failed to produce any witnesses -- either
from the FBI or from the INS -- or "original source material" in support of
these charges. Therefore no witnesses could be cross-examined at the hearings.

At the hearings, Kiareldeen produced witnesses and other evidence that he was
not living in the town where he is supposed to have met with bombing
conspirators. And an expert witness, Dr. Laurie Myleroie, appeared for him. She
is described by James Fox, former head of the FBI's New York office, as "one of
the world-class experts regarding Islam and the World Trade Center bombing." She
testified that no evidence showed that the accused had any connection with that
bombing.

The government's evidence, said the judge, failed "to satisfy the constitutional
standard of fundamental fairness." The INS -- part of the Justice Department --
denied Kiareldeen's "due process right to confront his accusers . . . even one
person during his extended tour through the INS's administrative procedures."

These due process protections, declared the judge, "must be extended to all
persons within the United States, citizens and resident aliens alike. . . .
Aliens, once legally admitted into the United States are entitled to the shelter
of the Constitution." The judge went even farther. Even if the government's
reliance on secret evidence has been provably based on a claim of national
security, Judge Walls -- quoting from a District of Columbia Court of Appeals
decision, Rafeedie v. INS -- asked "whether that government interest is so
all-encompassing that it requires that the petitioner be denied virtually every
fundamental feature of due process."

In Rafeedie, Judge David Ginsburg noted in 1989 that the permanent resident
alien in that case, in this country for 14 years, was "like Joseph K. in Kafka's
'The Trial' in that he could only prevail if he were able to rebut evidence that
he was not permitted to see."

Kiareldeen is now free after 19 months, but Judge Walls's decision that secret
evidence is unconstitutional applied only to the state of New Jersey. The INS
did not pursue its appeal because it wants to avoid a Supreme Court decision.
The INS continues to insist it will keep on using secret evidence.

One of the victims of these prosecutions in darkness still in prison is Nasser
Ahmed, who has been in INS detention for 3 1/2 years.

Congress has the power to bring in the sunlight by passing the Secret Evidence
Repeal Act of 1999 (H.R. 2121) -- introduced in June by Rep. David Bonior
(D-Mich.). It would "abolish the use of secret evidence in American courts and
reaffirm the Fifth Amendment's guarantee that no person shall be deprived of
liberty without due process."

Will a bipartisan Congress vote in favor of the Constitution? And then, will the
president allow the removal of the secret evidence provisions of his cherished
1996 Anti-Terrorrism Act?



LOAD-DATE: November 06, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              107 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 10, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

INS Chief Puts Office On New Path

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: PRINCE WILLIAM EXTRA; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 942 words



Warren A. Lewis, the new head of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service's Washington office, likes to refer to a statistic to describe his
approach to the job: In only 18 months in office, he has reprimanded, suspended
or otherwise disciplined more employees than his predecessors had in the last
several years.

As a result, he says, an office once saddled with a reputation for rude workers,
long lines, inefficiency and even corruption has begun to provide better service
to the hundreds of thousands of immigrants living in the District and Virginia
who seek citizenship, green cards, work permits, visas or other benefits.

"We had to change our overall attitude and the way we do business and be more
attentive to the needs of the customers," Lewis said in a recent interview,
explaining why he has disciplined more than 20 employees--including
supervisors--for offenses such as rudeness, unprofessional behavior, inattention
to duties and even absences from work.

"I believe that personnel is our biggest asset. Unfortunately, at times, there's
an attitude: 'I work for the government, and you can't do anything to me.'
That's unacceptable," he said. "The majority of our employees are good
employees, but a couple of bad employees can do a lot of damage."

Local immigration lawyers, long frustrated by the performance of Washington's
INS office, especially compared with its counterpart in Baltimore, acknowledged
that Lewis has made a difference.

"I think he's working very hard to improve the customer service, and, yes, it
has gotten better," said Mary Ryan, president of the local chapter of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, adding that there remains much room
for improvement.

Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer who once publicly compared the Washington
INS office to "Dante's rings of hell," also praised Lewis.

"I think Warren Lewis is doing a fabulous job," he said. "He was given one of
the toughest jobs in the immigration service, an office that has been grossly
underfunded, in a terrible building, where staff morale has been at an all-time
low . . . and he increased morale, increased efficiency and productivity, and
made the office much more customer friendly."

Lewis, 46, who is the brother of the District's U.S. attorney, Wilma A. Lewis,
accepts the plaudits with a little smirk--and the satisfaction of a bureaucrat
who has endured his share of criticism in the past.

Lewis, a native of the U.S. Virgin Island of St. Thomas, began his career there
more than 25 years ago after taking a civil service exam and finding a job as an
investigator for the INS. He worked his way up the ranks, serving in different
capacities in Dallas, Houston and the agency's Washington headquarters.

From the start, Lewis said, his goal was to be named head of one of the agency's
36 district offices. He applied repeatedly for openings. But despite high
performance reviews, the agency turned him down repeatedly.

Lewis, who is black, responded by filing a discrimination complaint against the
INS and leaving for a job with the Federal Aviation Administration. Shortly
afterward, in 1993, 19 black INS agents in Los Angeles filed a similar complaint
that grew into a class action on behalf of all black immigration officers. It
was one of the largest racial bias cases ever filed against the federal
government.

A year later, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner selected Lewis to head the INS
office in Newark. At the time, he was only the third black agent ever appointed
to head a district office.

It was the job of his dreams, he said, but it soon turned into a nightmare. In
June 1995, INS detainees rioted at the Esmor Immigration Detention Center in
Elizabeth, N.J. Twenty people were injured as detainees took over a building and
held two guards hostage for five hours before police broke through their
barricades.

The INS eventually confirmed allegations of physical and psychological abuse of
detainees by guards at the detention center, which was run by a private company.
The agency blamed the company for repeated coverups of problems but also
criticized its Newark office for failing to monitor the center properly. Lewis
was singled out for blame by some in Congress.

About the same time, Lewis also found his office in the middle of a criminal
investigation into its workings. He said he had noticed signs of corruption soon
after taking the Newark assignment.

Lewis brought his suspicions to his superiors and to internal investigators at
the Justice Department, as well as to federal prosecutors in New Jersey. In
1996, the office's No. 3 official, John Lonergan, was convicted of charges of
taking bribes and falsifying documents to help immigrants enter the country
illegally. By then, the INS had replaced Lewis as the head of the Newark office
and demoted him to deputy director of its Baltimore office.

Lewis thought he was being punished for exposing corruption, and he filed a
complaint under the Federal Whistleblower Protection Act. "My life became
miserable," he said.

The complaint was resolved when Lewis was appointed to head the Washington INS
office, and INS officials said they consider him a "member of the INS team." But
he said he still thinks some agency officials are out to make his life
difficult, citing the months he has waited for approval to fill key vacancies.

"The service is saying, 'Let's move forward.' That's what they're saying. But
I'm having difficulty getting the support to help me take this district where it
should be," he said. "I think we're doing a lot of things better, but there's a
lot more we can do."


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              108 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 1, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

Chicken Plant Jobs Open U.S. Doors for Koreans

Peter Pae, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 3457 words

DATELINE: SALISBURY, Md.


Hundreds of white-collar, middle-class Koreans, desperate to immigrate to the
United States, are paying as much as $ 30,000 each to work in chicken plants on
the Eastern Shore.

Immigration brokers advertise the poultry jobs in Korean newspapers as a
shortcut to the United States. Koreans who respond pay $ 10,000 to $ 30,000 in
fees and promise to work for a year in processing plants, according to
interviews with about 50 current and former poultry workers.

When they are hired, they receive legal permanent U.S. residency for themselves
and their families under a federal program designed to fill unskilled jobs. For
some, the process shortens a possible 15-year wait to immigrate. For others, it
is the only legal means of coming to America.

Under the program, U.S. companies can import foreign workers once they prove to
the Labor Department that they have advertised and recruited extensively yet
still have openings. About 10,000 people a year become permanent U.S. residents
under the program, which is used by such industries as hotels, maid services and
chicken processing companies.

The companies file for the work visas, but it is often middleman agencies and
brokers who recruit the specific individuals who will fill the positions.

The Koreans come to work in slaughterhouses with one primary goal: bringing
their children to the United States for what they believe are better educational
and economic opportunities. Most are middle-aged bankers, lawyers and managers
who spend their life savings to get the jobs and then find themselves handling
work far more difficult than they imagined.

For Koreans coming to the Eastern Shore chicken industry, often there is another
hurdle. Workers said in interviews that the Baltimore employment broker who
controls most local deals requires a $ 5,000 deposit that he holds in escrow
until the Koreans complete a year's work.

"It's like slavery," said Chan Hoo Choi, 37, who works at Perdue's Showell, Md.,
plant, cutting livers from chickens passing by on a conveyor line at 24 per
minute. In Korea, Choi was a homemaker and her husband, Young Soo, a food
company supervisor. "We were told American plants were automated and that we
didn't have to do so much manual labor," she said, speaking in Korean. "They
lied to us."

A Perdue official said this week that the company was not aware of the $ 5,000
deposit paid by the workers until questioned by a reporter. As a result, she
said, the company has begun an internal investigation into the transactions.

"That was truly a shock to us," said Tita Cherrier, a Perdue spokeswoman. "That
allegation about the $ 5,000, that was serious news to us. We are conducting an
internal investigation, and depending on the results, we will definitely
reassess how we are going to conduct the remaining portion of the program."

The little-known and lucrative traffic began more than two decades ago. It is
dominated locally by the Baltimore broker, Tai Young Lee, a former professor and
prominent Korean American businessman.

The workers arriving at Showell through Lee's connections come under an
arrangement that predates Perdue's 1995 purchase of the plant, Cherrier said.
Perdue does not use employment brokers or recruiters, she said, but as part of
its purchase agreement said it would honor visa applications made by the
previous owners.

The Koreans still arriving have been in the pipeline for years or took the place
of someone else already on the waiting list, Cherrier said. It could take a few
more years to clear the backlog, but Perdue "can't wait to get out of this," she
added. There are about 70 Koreans currently at the plant.

"We don't want to be associated with it because we don't believe in going to
other countries," Cherrier said. "We believe in hiring from the community."

Labor Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said they
were unaware brokering existed. Only company names appear on official documents
seeking the visas, "so we don't know they [brokers] are out there," said James
Norris, chief of the Labor Department's labor certification division, which
administers the program.

No law or regulation governs financial transactions between brokers and the
would-be chicken workers, meaning brokers can charge whatever the traffic will
bear. Competition for these spots is so fierce that there is a seven-year
backlog of applications. U.S. law forbids requiring the worker to stay in the
job for a fixed time as a condition for obtaining a green card--the certificate
that says a noncitizen is entitled to live and work permanently in the United
States. But immigration brokers have found a way to enforce the term without
running afoul of the law by combining legitimate contracts with other practices
that leave the impression that workers must complete a year's work.

"In reality, you can say it's one year of work in exchange for a green card,"
said Lee, the Baltimore broker. "Legally there is no term requirement. It's like
a gentleman's agreement."

The Korean workers interviewed said the contracts they signed do not stipulate a
term of work. They formed the impression that they must remain in the jobs for a
year, however, in part through the notice they received when they were directed
to wire a deposit to Lee's bank account. That notice, in Korean, states that
"when the agreement is performed (1 year of work) , we will pay back the full
amount." In addition, the workers said, an information sheet about the chicken
jobs they received when they first applied at the agency in Korea stated,
without explanation, "Term: One Year."

The workers said they received their green cards within one to six months of
arriving at slaughterhouses. Few left for another job even then, they said,
because they wrongly feared their green card could be revoked or their future
citizenship put in jeopardy. They also said they wanted to be sure they would
get a return of their deposit.

Lee acknowledged that he began requiring deposits to help ensure workers that
stayed at the plants for a year, in an industry where as many as 20 percent of
employees leave after three months. "It's something we had to do to maintain the
credibility and the integrity of the program" with employers, he explained.

"I'm not doing anything wrong, morally or ethically," said Lee, who declined to
say how much he earns in the transactions with Korean workers. The agency in
Korea, not he, collects the application and processing fees, Lee said, although
he said he receives a portion of the money. "I'm just trying to help people come
to the United States in a way that's mutually beneficial to the poultry industry
and the individuals," Lee said.

An official with the agency in Seoul said that once the agency receives money
from a prospective worker, most of it goes back to Lee. The "bulk of the fee
would be sent by Hyundai to the U.S. broker, in this case the Lees," said Kyu-Ho
Kim, director of Hyundai Emmigration Development Corp.

Even after paying the application fees, Korean workers normally wait six or
seven years before they receive permission to immigrate. But the process can be
hastened if someone drops out and another worker's name is substituted.

About one-third of the workers interviewed said they were substitutes and had
paid fees between $ 25,000 and $ 30,000 for the faster process.

The Labor Department, citing "the potential for abuse" and reports of a "reputed
secondary market involving the sale of labor certification," tried in the early
1990s to outlaw substitutions, but a court blocked that attempt, saying not
enough public notice of the policy change had been given.

Labor and immigration experts say the brokering is reminiscent of the
Colonial-era practice of indentured labor, in which European immigrants worked
for seven years as servants in exchange for passage to America. "The whole thing
is quite abhorrent," said Elliott Lichtman, a longtime immigration lawyer in
Washington, who expressed surprise that such a practice was still legally taking
place. "This is truly outrageous."

During fiscal 1999, the U.S. Embassy in Seoul issued 360 visas for Koreans
headed to work in poultry plants. Some brokers deliver workers to poultry
companies in southern Virginia, North Carolina and Arkansas.

Every year, 150 to 200 Korean workers come to Delmarva, where five companies run
a dozen slaughterhouses on the peninsula that includes parts of Delaware,
Maryland and Virginia east of the Chesapeake Bay. Most live in Salisbury,
headquarters of Perdue Farms Inc., and the largest single group works at
Showell.

As soon as they complete a year of work, they move on, many to join the Korean
American communities in Washington and Baltimore. Former chicken workers run
liquor stores in the District, a doughnut shop in Gaithersburg and a dry cleaner
in Manassas.

"It's very attractive to Koreans because they can get here quickly and bring
their family," said the Rev. Kyung Mo Koo, whose former Korean congregation in
Salisbury helped settle the workers. "But once they're done here, they move
elsewhere as quickly as possible to start a new life."


One Family's Saga


At first, the advertisement in one of Korea's largest daily newspapers seemed
too good to be true for the Chois. They had dreamed of immigrating to the United
States, but without close relatives who could sponsor them, the possibility
seemed remote.

Current immigration policy gives priority to spouses, parents and unmarried
children of U.S. citizens. Others such as siblings or professionals with
exceptional skills are placed in a waiting line.

"People who don't have skills, experience or family, this is the best way to
legally immigrate to get the green card," read an advertisement in the Korea
Times last August, adding that the "whole family can get it too."

On Aug. 27, 1990, the Chois walked into downtown Seoul's plush Koreana Hotel and
the offices of Hyundai Emmigration Development Corp., an intermediary of Lee,
the Baltimore-based broker, and signed a lengthy contract.

Documents from the Korean agency and Lee, wire transfer records and letters kept
by the Chois and reviewed by The Washington Post detail the family's financial
transactions as they pursued the visas.

The Chois were required to pay $ 3,250 into Lee's U.S. bank account. Another $
3,250 would be due once the Labor Department approved their application. For
acting as intermediary, Hyundai Emmigration was to be paid 450,000 won, or about
$ 550. The fees have since doubled, according to workers who have arrived
recently.

In return, the agency pledged to secure an employment agreement with a U.S.
poultry firm and all necessary Labor Department and INS permits and approvals.
It would take about four years, the agency told the Chois. Their money would be
refunded only if the broker or the employer canceled the deal.

Back in the United States, the broker, Lee, submitted the couple's name to
Mid-State Farms, a North Carolina firm that was later acquired by Perdue. A
month later, the firm petitioned the Labor Department for a permanent labor
certificate for the Chois. Lee submitted an application for the Chois to the INS
for their permanent work visas, which were approved three years later.

But in 1995, Perdue bought Mid-State Farms, complicating and delaying the
process for the Chois. Eventually Choi's application was transferred to Perdue's
Showell plant.

Meanwhile, Young Soo Choi became a victim of South Korea's paternalistic
employment system. Because workers in Korea traditionally are expected to stay a
lifetime in their jobs, many employers refuse to hire people seeking to leave
the country. Choi was laid off, unable to find a job as a manager, and found
himself driving a taxicab to support his family.

As the waiting turned from months to years, the Chois said they became anxious
and seriously began debating whether to immigrate. But a perplexing letter
strengthened their resolve.

The March 1996 letter from the Korean intermediary accused them of not providing
appropriate documents. It warned that the U.S. employer could withdraw the job
offer.

The Chois now say that the letter was an effort to replace them with a
substitute willing to pay more to get on the waiting list.

The Chois refused to drop out. They received another letter from the Korean
intermediary, this time asking the couple to wire an additional $ 5,000 to Lee
and providing the account number.

The money, according to the letter, was a deposit that Lee would hold in a
NationsBank escrow account until they finished their one-year work commitment.

"Majority of chicken butchers finish their job as agreed but some workers don't
keep their agreement and damage our reputation with the poultry firms," the
letter in Korean said, noting that the Chois would be penalized if they did not
meet their contractual obligation. Workers said that to get back their deposits,
they had to give Lee a letter from the chicken company saying they'd completed
their year's work.

The Chois said they paid, fearing they otherwise would jeopardize their
application and lose the time and money they already had invested.

"We didn't have a choice," Young Soo Choi said.

The Chois paid, and in December 1998, they arrived in Salisbury.


The Baltimore Connection


Tai Young Lee's ties to the poultry industry date to the late 1970s when he quit
his job at Salisbury State University to begin an international trading business
that supplied poultry equipment from Korea to companies on the Eastern Shore.

The company that Lee manages, PTC International Inc., grew and now is a
successful export-import business operating from a glass-walled office on the
22nd floor of the World Trade Center overlooking Baltimore's Inner Harbor. Lee
sits on several state and local economic development panels and has accompanied
former Maryland governor William Donald Schaefer (D) and Baltimore Mayor Kurt I.
Schmoke (D) on economic development missions to foreign countries. Last year, he
was named Baltimore's exporter of the year.

According to former brokers, Lee's brokering began around 1986. Lee said a
"chief executive" of a poultry company--whom he declined to name--asked him to
clean up the worker program, which was then being handled by some company
employees.

Jin Kim, who supplied workers to poultry firms on the Eastern Shore for two
years, started a brokering business in North Carolina in 1989 because he said he
could not longer compete with Lee. "We couldn't get in there," Kim said.
Companies "would say, 'We only deal with Mr. Lee.' " Kim estimates he has helped
bring 1,300 Korean families to the United States in the last decade.

Jim Wallston, vice president of planning for Townsends Inc.'s plant in
Millsboro, Del., said Lee's wife, Young Sun, approached them more than a decade
ago about sponsoring Korean workers. Lee said he could not recall whether his
wife approached the company.

Townsends hired about 200 Korean workers over a 10-year period, Wallston said.
"They provided the list of who and how many. We didn't pay for anything. The
only thing we guaranteed was a job," Wallston said.

Although Townsends continues to receive a small number of Korean workers who had
applied years ago and are only now arriving, the company stopped sponsoring
Lee's workers in 1996. Other poultry firms--Mountaire Farms Inc., Tyson Foods
Inc. and Allen Family Foods Inc.--also stopped sponsoring new workers although
they continue to receive those that applied earlier.

"We stopped doing it because we couldn't retain many. They stayed the year and
left," Wallston said. He added that the company often had to ask Lee to act as
an intermediary to workers who couldn't speak English. "You had to go through a
lawyer and the broker, and that was a nightmare for the employees," he said.

Lee, in several interviews by telephone and at his Baltimore office, said he had
a minimal role in finding workers and acts as an advisor helping process
paperwork. He denied charging fees, but in a later separate interview, he
acknowledged receiving a "small portion" of the processing fee for providing
"consulting work."

The worker pipeline extending 7,000 miles from Korea to the Eastern Shore was
created by the bride of a Korean War veteran who began working at the Showell
poultry plant. Chong S. Sines and her retired Army husband had relocated to
Salisbury from Seoul.

In the summer of 1975, a plant manager asked her if she knew anyone else in
Korea who would be interested in poultry and told her about the Labor
Department's program.

She approached relatives and soon found herself so swamped by eager applicants
from strangers in rural Korean towns, she said, that she quit the chicken plant
and become an employment broker for several Delmarva plants, bringing in 150
Koreans in some years. Her brokering business started to shrink in 1986 when
Showell began to deal with Lee and it ended in 1991 after the Internal Revenue
Service began to investigate a tip that she had not properly reported her
earnings. The tax case ended with a settlement that required Sines to sell all
her assets.

During her time as a broker, Sines said, the fee she charged applicants grew to
$ 1,100, with $ 700 for the attorney, $ 200 for processing paperwork and $ 200
for herself to cover the cost of helping families find apartments, fill out
government papers and enroll children in school.

Sines insisted that during this time, she required the workers neither to sign a
one-year contract nor to make a deposit she held, a fact former workers confirm.
"All I asked them to do was to work as long as possible," Sines said.

Several former workers who tried to leave their jobs early and tried to get back
their deposits from Lee said they complained to Perdue officials in 1996 when
the could not get their money. Perdue said it has no record of any complaints.

Eventually, Lee said, he agreed to return the workers' money if they kept the
matter quiet so others would not try to have their deposits returned.

Several other workers, who worked a full year, said they were unable to recover
their money after meeting what they saw as their obligation because they could
not produce receipts of their original wire transfers to Lee. Lee has also
refused to allow workers to borrow against the deposit to pay medical or other
emergency bills, workers say.

Hyong Taek Shin, who fell while working in the Showell plant in January, said he
racked up $ 1,700 in medical bills after Perdue refused to pay for treatment for
his back injuries because he did not immediately report the incident as required
under company policy.

Shin, a former accountant, sought his own doctor and has paid about $ 1,100 of
the bill. But Shin, 49, says he has used his savings and needs to dip into the
deposit he gave Lee to pay the balance. When he approached a plant manager at
Perdue for help in getting access to his deposit, Shin said, the manager
referred Shin to Lee.

Shin says Lee has not responded to repeated telephone calls from him. "I asked
if perhaps they could lend me the money, but I haven't heard from them," Shin
said. "The only time they called me was to tell me to go back to work."

A Perdue official said that Shin should have been told he could file an
application for an independent investigation of the incident, which could have
led the company to reimburse Shin for medical costs. "It was wrong, and it's not
the way we do business," the official said. "It's noted and corrected."

Lee said he was not aware of the Shin case but that the decision to return any
of the deposit would have to be made by the Korean agency. He also said that
deposits have been returned when the "appropriate requests" were made after
workers complete their term.


Staff writer Joohee Cho in Seoul and research editor Margot Williams contributed
to this report.

Bok Chul Kim gets instructions on how to use the deadbolt to his new apartment
in Salisbury from Huisik Kim. Moo Eun Kim, left, and Jung Hyun Choi help carry
luggage. Korean chicken worker Young Soo Choi, left, shops for a computer at
Sam's Club in Salisbury with his wife, Chan Hoo, his daughter, Jung Won, and
son, Jung Hyun. They want to read Korean newspapers on the Internet. Young Soo
Choi shows documentation that he says proves he paid a $ 5,000 deposit for a
chicken job. Every year, 150 to 200 Korean workers come to Delmarva to work in
one of the five slaughterhouses there. The largest group of them works at
Showell. Young Hak Yoo, foreground, enjoys an outing with his parents and
friends from the Korean community at a picnic.

LOAD-DATE: December 01, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: POULTRY'S PRICE: Importing Workers; Pg. 4/4

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              109 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 14, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Cuban Boy's Father Meets INS Officials In Havana

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 583 words


Two U.S. officials met yesterday morning with the father of a 6-year-old Cuban
boy to determine whether the child, who has been thrust into the center of
U.S.-Cuban relations after being rescued in waters off Florida, should return to
his father in Cuba or stay with American relatives.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez, a hotel doorman, met with a representative of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and an employee of the U.S. interests
section in Havana and told the Associated Press that he believed his son would
soon return.

"These people [the INS] have been on our side all along. They agree that he
should be back here, that the child should be returned as soon as possible," a
beaming Gonzalez said outside his comfortable two-story house in Cardenas, 95
miles east of Havana.

But a U.S. official in Washington said that Gonzalez's description of the
conversation was "absolutely erroneous." The official said that the INS officer
would write a report and that the INS would decide the boy's fate.

"The purpose of the interview was to receive from Mr. Gonzalez the documentation
certifying that he was the boy's father, that he can legally exercise parental
authority, and also to find out directly from him his wishes for the child,"
said James Foley, a State Department spokesman. "INS is following its standing
procedures to determine parental rights in this case. . . .They needed an
interview in order to accomplish that purpose. And now INS is going to assess
the results of that meeting." He said the INS would "go by the book."

The Associated Press reported that Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman, said
Gonzalez has established that he is the father of the boy, Elian Gonzalez. But
other officials said the issue of parental rights has yet to be decided. Such
rights involve a determination of whether the father had a genuine relationship
with the boy and was not an absentee parent.

Elian was found Nov. 25, clinging to an inner tube off the coast of Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., after a boat accident that killed his mother and 10 other
people as they fled to the United States.

The boy has been staying with relatives of his father in Florida since the
rescue, and the State Department has said the boy's return is in the hands of
the INS.

"I decided to meet with them to show I have no resentment toward them, and to
repeat my position that my son should be returned to me as soon as possible,"
Gonzalez said. The meeting was announced by Cuban National Assembly President
Ricardo Alarcon.

Cuban exiles in Florida have insisted that the boy's father come to the United
States to make known his wishes for the boy without political pressure from the
Cuban government, which has condemned the United States for not returning Elian.
Vice President Gore has suggested Gonzalez be allowed to travel to the United
States to express his views, but Gonzalez said, "There's no reason for me to go
there, and I won't do it."

A U.S. official in Washington said that the two officials in Cuba met with
Elian's father and then with the father and boy's paternal grandparents.

Although Cuba has organized demonstrations demanding Elian's return, Cuban
exiles in Miami--along with a range of U.S. politicians--have argued against
returning the boy. The Associated Press reported that lawyers for relatives in
Miami have petitioned for political asylum on behalf of the boy, who has become
a center of attention among exiled opponents of Cuban President Fidel Castro.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              110 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 16, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

OBITUARIES

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 531 words


Marion Ruth Metcalf

INS Project Manager

Marion Ruth Metcalf, 44, who joined the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in 1987 and was a project manager in the deputy commissioner's office since
1998, died Dec. 11 at Arlington Hospital after a heart attack. She lived in
Arlington.

Ms. Metcalf led the Integrated Card Production Management Team, which in
November won the Commissioner's Challenge Award for immigration services. Among
the other awards she received were the INS's Superior Accomplishment Award in
1992 for improving the quality and clarity of written projects and the
Commissioner's Challenge Award in 1996.

She was the principal author and oversaw the "Handbook for Employers"
distributed in the late 1980s to more than 8 million employers. The book
explained the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 that established the
I-9 employee-verification form to restrict the hiring of illegal immigrants.

In the 1990s, Ms. Metcalf was a member of the National Performance Review
overseen by the vice president's office.

She was born in Knoxville, Tenn., and graduated from Brown University in 1978
with a bachelor's degree in political science and history. She received a
master's degree in city and regional planning from Harvard University in 1980.

In the 1970s, she was a staff assistant and caseworker for Rep. Marilyn Lloyd
(D-Tenn.) and a program analyst at the Transportation Department's
transportation systems center in Cambridge, Mass.

She was a policy analyst at the Justice Department's criminal division from 1980
to 1986 and also worked in 1986 as a senior policy analyst at the U.S.
Sentencing Commission.

Ms. Metcalf was president of the Capitol Hill Choral Society.

Survivors include her husband of nine years, Alfred S. Gilman, of Arlington; two
stepdaughters, Nancy L. Bigler Gilman of Nahant, Mass., and Anne T. Gilman of
Cambridge, Mass.; her mother, Margaret H. Metcalf of Oak Ridge, Tenn.; and two
brothers, Lawrence M. Metcalf and Dr. Thomas H. Metcalf, both of Oak Ridge.


John F.J. Stinson

Navy Commander, Highway Safety Specialist

John F.J. Stinson, 80, a retired Navy commander who was a highway safety data
specialist at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration from 1970 to
1981, died of respiratory failure Dec. 2 at Martin Memorial Medical Center in
Stuart, Fla. He lived in McLean 34 years before moving to Stuart in 1996.

Cmdr. Stinson was born in Philadelphia and joined the Navy in 1941. He served in
the Caribbean, North Africa and Italy during World War II and retired in 1966.
His last posting was with the old Naval Command Systems Support Activity.

In the late 1960s, Cmdr. Stinson was an engineer at Vitro Corp. in Silver
Spring.

He graduated from the University of Maryland in 1966 with a degree in business
administration.

He was a past member of St. John's Catholic Church in McLean.

His wife of 48 years, Nell Lloyd Stinson, died in 1994.

Survivors include three sons, John Jr., of Chevy Chase, George L., of
Tallahassee, and Daniel R., of Jensen Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Elizabeth A.
Stinson of Carbondale, Colo.; a brother; a sister; and five grandchildren.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              111 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 16, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Low Marks for the INS

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A38; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 195 words


I read with interest the Dec. 13 front-page report about the favorable ratings
given by "customers" to various U.S. government agencies. I was particularly
astonished by how well the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) was
rated (69 out of 100). When I looked more carefully, however, I saw that the INS
customers surveyed were international travelers.

I speak from personal experience when I write that the INS has failed to serve
one of its most important customer groups--those seeking to immigrate legally to
the United States. The INS has twice lost my family's lengthy application forms
(once requiring us to recreate them), it has ignored dozens of letters and
telephone calls and it has not kept appointments. Indeed, on two occasions now,
the INS has failed to follow the precise instructions printed on its own forms.
A process that should take weeks, takes months or years because of INS
incompetence.

To say the least, the INS has not served our family well. Our discussions with
other legal immigrants only confirms our disappointing experiences. Please count
us as very dissatisfied customers.

DAVID P. FRANKEL

Washington



LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              112 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 19, 1999, Sunday, Final Edition

Persian Delights

Wendy Law-Yone

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X14

LENGTH: 738 words


SAFFRON SKY

A Life Between Iran and America

By Gelareh Asayesh

Beacon. 222 pp. $ 24

Reviewed by Wendy Law-Yone

"The history of immigration," wrote Oscar Handlin two decades ago in The
Uprooted, "is the history of alienation and its consequences." Reading Saffron
Sky, I wondered if, in America at least, immigration exacts alienation in the
same way anymore.

Where previous generations of immigrants were forced to suppress or deny their
pasts in order to forge new and acceptable American identities, the pursuit of
multiculturalism has created a different climate for newcomers nowadays.
Diversity, political correctness, opportunism, mandated recognition of other
cultures -- all combine further to promote tolerance -- or the illusion of
tolerance -- for once barely tolerated immigrant groups. Alienation, as a
result, is not quite what it used to be.

For one thing, today's aliens are better versed in the vocabulary of alienation
than their predecessors ever were. Gelareh Asayesh is a young Iranian woman who
first came to the United States in 1970, for a two-year stay. Seven years later,
at age 15, she returned as an immigrant to the United States with her parents
and sister. For the next 14 years, throughout high school, college and a career
as a reporter (with the Boston Globe, the Miami Herald and the Baltimore Sun),
Asayesh lived continuously in the States, never once returning to Iran. Only in
1990, after her marriage to an American, did she begin regular visits back to
her homeland: to visit family and friends, to retrieve lost connections with the
past and to document the journeys back and forth between two cultures. The
result of these travels is Saffron Sky, a memoir of "a life between Iran and
America."

Anyone who has lived the exile's split life will identify with the author's
feeling of being "trapped in a cycle of futile nostalgia"; will understand "the
futility of trying to bridge the distance." Anyone who has known uprooting will
recognize the amnesia necessary to successful transplanting, and the costs of
that amnesia. Every immigrant with divided loyalties will have wondered about
the usefulness of preserving culture in vacuum while experiencing "that inner
shriveling. . . the immigrant's small death."

Asayesh writes persuasively and with refreshing candor not only about the
conflicts of exile but about the declared motives of immigrants. "The mythology
says that people like myself come to this country seeking freedom." But "the
desire to live in a democracy is not, I suspect, our primary motive." "We stayed
in America because it offered us a better life

. . . because we had changed, like an animal that, adapting to a new habitat, is
no longer suited to the old." Turning to contemporary Iran, the author is
equally candid about the strictures of religion on women, the inferiority
complex of Iranians who are gharb-zadeh (West-struck), what she regards as the
irreconcilable contradictions of Islam.

Saffron Sky's most beguiling contribution, however, is its portrait of a
sympathetic, close-knit, middle-class family and the ties that bind despite
physical separation and the exigencies of distance. The rich texture of family
life is recreated in the author's childhood memories and re-lived in her more
recent visits home. Lazy afternoons of tea and gossip on the porch with loving
aunts. Meals spread out under trees, on wooden platform beds covered with
Persian carpets. Languorous siestas and hours of backgammon until nightfall.
Nights spent on the porch in the summer, with the city lights in the distance.
Visits from tradesmen like the salt-seller, the door-to-door sweepers (the
paroo-zan) and the nafti oil man. The cold sweet drinks of the Middle East. The
rich foods preceding Ramadan, "intended to fortify the body for fasting and
weeping."

This nostalgia for domestic idylls, crossed with an upbeat, life-affirming
spirit of inquiry, makes Saffron Sky a new kind of immigrant memoir.
Self-assured, self-centered in an inspirational way, this is a memoir with an
American message: Alienation itself can be turned to good effect, from liability
to opportunity. Speaking of "the immigrant's doom," Asayesh declares in the same
breath the need "to fashion for myself a destiny different from that of my
peers."

An American manifesto, if ever there was one.

Wendy Law-Yone's most recent novel is "Irrawaddy Tango."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              113 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  December 22, 1999, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Tightens Border, Airport Security; Algerian, Canadian Arrested At Crossing
Into Vermont

Lorraine Adams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1388 words


Responding to heightened concern about foreign terrorism, law enforcement
agencies yesterday tightened their grip at the nation's borders, increasing
inspectors and redoubling security at airports.

And last night the State Department reemphasized its warning that Americans
abroad may be the target of terrorist attacks in the next few weeks.

In Vermont, an Algerian man and a Canadian woman were arrested at a border
crossing and charged with immigration violations after dogs found what may have
been traces of explosives in their car. Authorities said that Bouabide Chamchi,
20, and Lucia Garofalo, 35, of Montreal, attempted to cross illegally from
Canada into Beecher Falls, Vt., on Sunday night. Chamchi was carrying a false
French passport. During the previous two weeks, Garofalo had brought another
Algerian passenger across the border and tried unsuccessfully to drive across
with a Pakistani-born man under circumstances authorities described as
suspicious. Chamchi and Garofalo were charged in U.S. District Court in
Burlington yesterday with conspiring to misuse a false French passport and
various immigration offenses.

Canadian and U.S. authorities were trying to determine whether the pair was in
any way connected to Algerian-born Ahmed Ressam, who was arrested in Port
Angeles, Wash., on Dec. 14 after he arrived on a ferry from Canada with a
carload of bomb-making materials.

Law enforcement officials said their chief focus is locating three possible
accomplices of Ressam in the United States or Canada--a man he shared a motel
room with in Vancouver, another man who may have been on the ferry with him and
a third man whom officials have not described.

At the White House, increased concerns about possible terrorism tied to the end
of the millennium prompted a high-level meeting Monday involving Secretary of
State Madeleine K. Albright, CIA Director George J. Tenet, Gen. Henry H.
Shelton, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and others. President Clinton
did not attend.

At his regular press briefing, White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said, "The
U.S. is not invulnerable to domestic terrorism, but there's no specific
information now about particular targets here."

Abroad, however, it is a different story. The State Department said last night
that recent arrests of 13 people in Jordan produced information that hotels,
tourist sites and tourist buses may have been targeted there and that even after
the arrests "we cannot rule out the possibility that attacks still may be
planned for this and other parts of the world."

Last night's warning tells Americans abroad to "review their security practices,
to remain vigilant to their surroundings and to exercise caution" and urges them
to "avoid large crowds and gatherings, keep a low profile, and vary routes and
times of all required travel."

On Dec. 11, the State Department warned U.S. citizens to be especially careful
through New Year's. That warning was apparently triggered in part by the arrests
in Jordan, although no country was named then. Last night's stronger warning
extended the caution period through mid-January.

Since Ressam's arrest last week, the U.S. Customs Service has transferred more
than 300 employees to points of entry along the Canadian and Mexican borders,
asked part-time employees who usually work during the summer tourist season to
return to duty, and waived overtime limits so inspectors can work longer hours.
There were reports of moderate border delays from the western seaboard to New
England as inspectors asked more questions and stopped more travelers.

Customs Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said travelers "may expect some delays. I
believe they will be minimal . . . but we think it is important for us to
intensify some of our activities."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced yesterday that it planned
to institute similar measures in the coming days.

The Federal Aviation Administration also issued a statement outlining more
stringent security precautions. The FAA said that passengers at airport security
checkpoints may notice the presence of uniformed police and the additional use
of trace explosives detector units. Passengers were advised not to gift wrap
items.

[In Canada, the customs agency said it would step up security at airports, while
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police confirmed an increase in security outside the
U.S. Embassy in Ottawa, apparently in coordination with the U.S. actions, the
Associated Press reported.]

Law enforcement officials cautioned that they have no evidence of a broad
conspiracy linking Ressam and the Vermont arrest; nor have they established any
firm evidence connecting the recent arrests with militant Islamic leader Osama
bin Laden.

The Vermont arrest, however, was unusual. "We have a number of border crossing
prosecutions that our office prosecutes every year," said Charles Tetzlaff, U.S.
attorney for Vermont. "I think the thing that makes it a little unusual was the
dogs alerting on the explosives residue--or whatever it is."

Two weeks before her arrest, Garofalo had entered the United States at the
Pittsburg, N.H., port of entry on Dec. 6, according to an affidavit filed in
Burlington federal court yesterday. Because the unmanned but controlled port of
entry is located in a remote area, she was questioned over a video camera rather
than face to face.

She drove a new Chrysler Neon and had two passengers who she told U.S.
inspectors were Canadians. Inspectors did not ask each individual for
identification, and all were allowed to enter the United States.

On Dec. 12, apparently returning, Garofalo crossed back into Canada at
Stanstead, Quebec, above the Vermont border. Canadian Customs officials
identified her two passengers as her son, and Mustafa Roubici, an Algerian
citizen who had no identification. Garofalo said she had entered the United
States with the same individuals on Dec. 6, suggesting that at that time she had
misrepresented to U.S. officials that Roubici was Canadian.

On Dec. 15, Garofalo appeared again at the Pittsburg, N.H., video port of entry
at 2:35 a.m. in the Neon. Her companion this time identified himself as Ahmed
Saheen, who claimed to be a Canadian citizen born in Pakistan. A check of the
trunk over the video revealed a large amount of baggage. At that point, they
were refused entry because Saheen did not have a visa. Garofalo was told to go
to a port of entry with inspectors present, but apparently did not.

Then, on Dec. 19, Garofalo and Chamchi drove to the port of entry at Beecher
Falls, Vt., where the two were questioned. Asked why they were making the trip,
Garofalo, according to the affidavit, said "she was looking for a restaurant in
East Hereford, Quebec, the Canadian town immediately across the border." She
said it was common for her to "take long pleasure rides with no specific purpose
or destination."

Chamchi had no identification document required for an Algerian citizen in the
United States, and a false French passport in the name of Boudjemaa Ben Ali was
found in a jacket of his in the car. Chamchi said he had never seen it before.
The FBI was notified and arrangements were made to have bomb-sniffing dogs
inspect the vehicle. One dog was certified to detect plastic explosives, the
other black powder explosives.

"The dogs were brought into Garofalo's car separately. Both dogs individually
alerted in the right-rear area of the car's quarter panel by sitting. They also
alerted to the portion of the trunk that adjoined the right rear quarter panel,"
the affidavit stated.

Canadian criminal records indicate that there was an outstanding warrant for
Chamchi for an assault charge on Aug. 18 in Quebec. Chamchi and Garofalo, if
convicted of the current charges against them, face sentences of up to five
years imprisonment.


Staff writers Stephen Barr and Charles F. Babington contributed to this report.

In stepped-up security along southern and northern U.S. ports of entry, a
Customs Service inspector empties the trunk of a car at the International Peace
Bridge at Buffalo. Across the border in Canada, officials scrambled to explain
how an Algerian terrorism suspect eluded them for nearly six years before his
arrest Dec. 14 in the state of Washington. Details, Page A8.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              114 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 4, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Acts to Ease Cuban Boy's Exit; Plans Prepared for Father to Pick Up Son

Karen DeYoung, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1038 words


Anticipating a decision by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to send
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez home to Cuba, U.S. officials have asked the Cuban
government to help arrange for the boy's father to travel to Miami to pick him
up.

American authorities hope the appearance of the father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
and his clear desire to take custody of his son, will limit a legal and
emotional backlash from Florida's large Cuban-American community, according to a
U.S. official. Elian has become a cause celebre among militant exiles opposed to
Cuba's Communist government who have demanded that he be allowed to remain with
relatives in this country.

The appeal to Cuba came after INS officials met for a second time with
Gonzalez--a meeting that took place in Havana on New Year's Eve. Cuba responded
that it would take "under advisement" a U.S. request that it facilitate an exit
visa for the father, according to the U.S. official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.

Under preliminary plans discussed in weekend consultations involving the INS,
the State Department and the Justice Department, Gonzalez would be issued an
emergency U.S. visa, flown to Miami and brought to the home of Miami relatives
where Elian is staying, perhaps accompanied by a Roman Catholic priest, the
official said. Although the relatives--who would be informed in advance--could
seek a temporary restraining order in federal court against the INS decision,
legal custody of Elian would immediately revert to his father, who would be free
to leave the country with him.

The issue is a touchy one for Cuba, because both Gonzalez and President Fidel
Castro have publicly rejected such a trip, insisting that the United States has
unilateral legal responsibility to return the boy with no action on their part.
In informal queries over the weekend, Havana sought confirmation that an INS
decision would be announced before Gonzalez reached Miami.

Washington is similarly nervous about arranging a sequence of events leading to
Elian's return in advance of a decision that the INS technically has not yet
made. But in the weekend discussions, U.S. officials agreed that the biggest
remaining impediment to resolution of the six-week-old impasse is the reaction
of the Cuban-American community.

Elian was found floating in an inner tube off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving
Day, one of three survivors of a shipwreck in which 10 Cubans drowned, including
his mother. Brought to shore by two fishermen, the boy was released into the
custody of his paternal great-uncles and aunts, Cubans who have lived in Miami
since the early 1960s.

His parents were divorced, and the family in Cuba insists he was taken from the
country by his mother without his father's permission. Backed by Elian's two
sets of grandparents in Cuba--and by the Cuban government--the father demanded
that the child be returned. But the Miami relatives have refused to send him
home.

Much to the outrage of Castro, who has charged the Miamians with trying to
"brainwash" the boy, they have showered him with gifts and trips to Florida
tourist attractions, all within television camera range, and prompted such
public utterances from him as "I love Miami." Their cause has been taken up by
Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) and by many in Congress, including Senate Foreign
Relations Committee chairman Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), who has said he will
introduce a bill granting Elian immediate U.S. citizenship.

For its part, the Cuban government has mobilized mass demonstrations around the
country demanding Elian's return and has charged that the crisis is a direct
result of U.S. immigration policies that encourage Cubans to leave the island
nation in unseaworthy craft. The Gonzalez family also has prominent American
supporters, including the National Council of Churches, whose representatives
met with Elian's father and grandparents yesterday in their home town, Cardenas,
east of Havana.

While the Clinton administration initially appeared tempted to use the
controversy to highlight its antipathy toward Castro's government, saying it
proves how desperate Cubans are to flee, it quickly decided to distance itself
from what it saw as a position of questionable legal merit. In recent weeks,
senior administration officials have described the case as purely an INS matter.

Elian's current status is that of an INS parolee who, under immigration law
applicable only to Cubans, is eligible to apply for permanent U.S. residence in
one year. But since he is underage, his legal representative would have to apply
for him--or decline to make such an application.

Although lawyers for the Miami relatives have indicated that they may try to
move the case into the jurisdiction of state family court in Florida, they have
not done so, and the INS insists that the case remains a federal matter. "The
governing law is immigration law," said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron. "We're not
making a decision on custody, but on who has the right to speak for the child"
on immigration matters. A decision made in favor of the father would give him
the option of declining to request permanent status for Elian. The INS has set a
Jan. 21 hearing in Elian's case, but Bergeron emphasized that "we can arrive at
a decision any time before Jan. 21."

INS officials first met with Juan Miguel Gonzalez, the father, in early
December, when he presented them with birth certificates and other documentation
proving paternity and his status as an active parent. Later last month,
officials met with the Miami relatives, who U.S. officials said told them, among
other things, that they believed Gonzalez was "under duress" from the Cuban
government to maintain a hard line in the matter.

The allegation led to the New Year's Eve meeting, held with no Cuban officials
present, at the home of the UNICEF representative in Havana. Gonzalez "said he
was not speaking under duress," said the U.S. official. "He said he really did
want his son returned; he was fairly emphatic that those reports were not
correct," the official said. Gonzalez, the official said, expressed "some
confusion" as to why the process was taking so long "and growing annoyance" at
the delays.


LOAD-DATE: January 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              115 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     January 7, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Reno Won't Reverse INS Decision to Return Boy to Cuba

Sue Anne Pressley; Karen DeYoung, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1184 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 6



Attorney General Janet Reno declined today to reverse a decision by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to return 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez to
his father in Cuba, as hundreds of Cuban Americans took to the streets of this
city in a mostly peaceful but determined protest.

"Based on all the information we have to date, I see no reason to reverse the
decision," Reno said at her regular Thursday news briefing in Washington,
responding to a formal request to intervene by the legal team representing
Elian's Miami relatives.

"What [the INS] took into consideration is who, under the law, can speak for the
6-year-old boy, who really can't speak for himself," she said. "He has a father.
And there is a bond between father and son that the law recognizes and tries to
honor."

The fate of the child has become an international dispute--and a sore point
among many Cuban exiles here--since he was found drifting in an inner tube on
Thanksgiving Day a few miles off the Florida coast. Elian's mother and nine
others drowned when their boat capsized as they attempted to reach the United
States. A custody fight ensued when Elian's father in Cuba, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, and Fidel Castro's government demanded the boy's return. The INS
decision Wednesday set a deadline of Jan. 14 for that to occur, sparking
demonstrations today that paralyzed traffic in downtown Miami.

Protesters blocked the entrance to the bustling Port of Miami, disrupting
business for more than an hour before Miami-Dade police in full riot gear moved
in to make dozens of arrests. On the busy thoroughfares, including the roads
leading to Miami International Airport, supporters slowed to 20 mph.

At a rally in front of the Claude Pepper Federal Building, demonstrators broke
through police barricades and flooded the streets, forcing traffic to a
standstill. They waved American and Cuban flags and shouted, "Free Elian!" A
handful of hunger strikers took up a vigil under a makeshift tent, vowing not to
eat until the child is allowed to remain here. Many of the protesters agreed
that Elian's case should be decided in family court.

"This is our way of sending a strong message to the Clinton administration that
we demand for the child Elian Gonzalez his day in court," said Ramon Saul
Sanchez of the anti-communist Democracy Movement, an organizer of today's
protests who was among the first of 100 people to be arrested.

Many of the demonstrators said they blame President Clinton for what they
described as kowtowing to Castro. One sign in the crowd read, "Castro Gives
Orders to Clinton, and Clinton Obeys."

Florida Gov. Jeb Bush wrote to Clinton seeking a reversal of the INS decision.

Officials in Washington and Havana said today that there had been no further
action on the case, and U.S. sources were puzzled by the failure of attorneys
for Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, and other relatives in Miami to file a
legal challenge they had threatened Wednesday, should they get no satisfaction
from Reno.

Cuban representatives in Washington said they, too, were waiting on the next
move. "We think that [the INS decision] was a big step, a significant one," a
senior Cuban official said today. "But what we need now is to have the
enforcement of that decision. . . . Our concern is the same. Time passes, and
the child is still in Miami."

A reference to the ruling on state television Wednesday in Cuba, where a
reported 3 million people rallied for Elian's return, warned against "excessive
optimism." But Havana has issued no official statement.

Politicians on the campaign trail in New Hampshire, however, had plenty to say
about the decision, with Republican candidates--Texas Gov. George W. Bush,
Arizona Sen. John McCain and businessman Steve Forbes--criticizing the decision
as a mistake and using the opportunity to denounce the Clinton administration
policy toward the Cuban government.

"The only people who have been sent back to Cuba in the past are criminals,"
McCain said.

Vice President Gore, also campaigning in New Hampshire, seemed to be distancing
himself from the ruling. Without expressly disavowing the INS decision, Gore
said he wants the appeals process to go forward and repeated his position that
no decision about the boy's fate should be made until the father can speak on
"free soil." He said he is not convinced the father was not coerced by the
Castro regime.

But Democratic candidate Bill Bradley effectively ducked the question, saying
that when the controversy began, "I thought Elian Gonzalez should stay in the
United States, but I'm not going to second-guess the INS."

Those members of Congress who felt moved to issue statements on the decision
were near-uniformly divided along party lines, with Democrats generally
supportive and Republicans critical. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman
Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), who had vowed to introduce a bill granting the boy
immediate U.S. citizenship as soon as Congress reconvenes in two weeks, said he
would forge ahead anyway. "That way, when he is old enough to make decisions for
himself, he will be able to claim the freedom his mother purchased for him with
her life," Helms said.

In the meantime, Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) urged the House Government
Reform Committee, chaired by Rep. Dan Burton (R-Ind.), to issue a subpoena to
Elian to block his return to Cuba until after Congress could make him a U.S.
citizen, and a spokesman said Burton would seriously consider the idea, the
Miami Herald reported.

The focus of all of this attention, young Elian Gonzalez, who had begun classes
this week at a private school in Miami, was kept away from school today,
relatives told reporters.

If and when a decision is made by the Miami relatives to relinquish the boy, the
National Council of Churches may help. Representatives of the group met with the
father and Elian's grandparents in their hometown of Cardenas, Cuba, earlier
this week, and the council issued a statement today that said, "We were told the
Cuban family will request that we bring the boy back. . . . We remain ready and
willing to do this."

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron confirmed today that Juan Miguel Gonzalez had
requested the council "to serve as his intermediary" in the return of Elian.
Although Gonzalez did not reject a possible trip to Miami himself, Bergeron
said, he made it clear he wanted the council involved.

But as the afternoon rush hour unfolded here, with car horns bleating in protest
of the INS ruling and demonstrators blocking many major thoroughfares throughout
the city, few of the anti-Cuban protesters seemed ready to give up their fight
to keep the boy here.

"There's no freedom in Cuba," said 22-year-old Web site designer Michael Glynn.
"I perfectly understand a father-son relationship, but here, he can have
freedom."


Pressley reported from Miami, DeYoung from Washington. Staff writers David A.
Vise in Washington and David Von Drehle and John F. Harris in New Hampshire and
special correspondent Catharine Skipp in Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: January 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              116 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     January 7, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Bomb-Plot Suspects Face Immigration Charges

Lorraine Adams; David A. Vise, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 345 words



A federal grand jury indicted a Canadian woman and an Algerian

citizen yesterday on immigration charges as the nationwide investigation into a
terrorist bomb plot continued.

In an eight-count indictment filed in Burlington, Vt., Lucia Garofalo, 35, and
Bouabide Chamchi, 20, were charged with alien smuggling and misuse of a
passport. The pair were not charged with any terrorism-related crimes, even
though previous filings by federal prosecutors linked them to another Algerian,
Ahmed Ressam, who was arrested with explosives in his car in Port Angeles,
Wash., last month.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Jerome Niedermeier agreed to reconsider his earlier ruling
that Garofalo be held without bail.

Garofalo and Chamchi were arrested Dec. 19 near the Canadian border in Beecher
Falls, Vt., after border officials recognized her from previous crossings that
had aroused their suspicions. Her attorney did not return calls asking for
comment.

Garofalo's other crossings were part of yesterday's indictment, with the
government alleging that she had illegally driven three foreign nationals
believed to be Algerian into the United States between Dec. 6 and the day of her
arrest. In addition to Chamchi, Mustafa Roubici and a man identified as John Doe
a.k.a Ahmed Saeen were named as her passengers from Canada to the United States.

Separately yesterday, the importance of the federal anti-terrorist effort over
the holidays was underlined in a speech at the National Press Club by national
security adviser Samuel R. "Sandy" Berger.

"Thankfully, the New Year's Eve celebrations around the world passed without a
terrorist attack. But just because we dodged a bullet doesn't mean there was no
bullet to dodge," Berger said.

"The last weeks of 1999 saw the largest U.S. counterterrorism operation in
history. Terrorist cells were disrupted in eight countries, and attacks were
almost certainly prevented, thanks to the good work of our law enforcement and
intelligence agencies."


Staff writer Charles Babington contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: January 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              117 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 18, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Doubt Cast On Image of Enterprising Immigrants; In Study Assailing Popular
Beliefs, D.C. Stands Apart

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 811 words



Whether it is the Korean greengrocer, the Polish butcher, the Ethiopian cabby or
the Cuban restaurateur, immigrants who run their own businesses have long
occupied a special place in popular imaginings of the American dream.

But a study of U.S. Census Bureau data found that high levels of immigrant
entrepreneurship are a myth in major metropolitan areas, with one exception:
Washington.

The report by the Center for Immigration Studies, a District-based think tank
that advocates lower levels of immigration, concluded that nearly 14 percent of
immigrants in the Washington-Baltimore area are self-employed, compared with 10
percent of other area residents. About one in five of all self-employed adults
in the region are foreign-born, the report said.

But Washington was the exception among the nine U.S. metropolitan areas that
have the most immigrants. It ranked highest in immigrant self-employment and was
the only one in which immigrants outpaced other residents by a sizable margin.

Nationally, immigrants once were significantly more entrepreneurial than other
people, but that is no longer true, the report said. In 1960, 13.8 percent of
immigrants were self-employed, compared with 9.6 percent of U.S. natives. By
1997, the rate was about the same for both population groups, between 11 percent
and 12 percent.

"While there is no evidence that immigrants nationally are more entrepreneurial
than natives, it may be that Washington is the one area where immigrants have
slightly higher rates of self-employment," said Steven A. Camarota, the report's
author. He cautioned that the figure for the Washington area was based on a
small sample, about 500 immigrant adults.

Advocates for immigrants criticized the study, saying it contradicts years of
research showing that immigrants are more entrepreneurial because they are risk
takers who are beginning new lives in a foreign land. They also said the study
failed to adjust for illegal immigrants, who are more likely to be counted by
the Census Bureau today and may be dragging down the new figures.

Stephen Moore, an economist at the libertarian Cato Institute, said small
businesses run by immigrants have fueled "the renaissance of American cities
over the last 25 years."

"If you're talking about Washington, just look around. Everything from the
high-tech companies in Northern Virginia to the concession stands by the
monuments are run by immigrants. I'm looking out my window right now, and
there's an Indian woman behind a hot dog stand," he said. "Washington may be the
golden example, but this is not unique to Washington."

Robert Manning, a Georgetown University sociologist who studies immigration in
the region, attributed the high level of self-employment among local immigrants
to their being unusually well educated.

Census surveys in recent years show that immigrants in the Washington area are
half as likely to be high school dropouts as immigrants elsewhere. And more than
half of Washington area immigrants have completed college, compared with barely
a third of other area residents and about a quarter of immigrants and natives
nationally.

Manning said more research is needed on whether self-employed immigrants in the
area are high-wage earners who create jobs, such as those who start technology
companies, or low-wage earners, including self-employed maids. The study found
that immigrant entrepreneurs in the Washington area earn less on average than
they do elsewhere.

Camarota attributed the high self-employment rate among local immigrants in part
to the population's diversity. Entrepreneurship varies widely by country of
origin, and the region has large numbers of immigrants from several groups that
have high rates of self-employment, including Koreans, Chinese and Indians, as
well as smaller numbers from Cuba and the Mideast.

Locally, about 26 percent of immigrants from the Mideast and Africa are
self-employed, as are 15 percent of immigrants from Asia and 5 percent of those
from Latin America, Camarota said.


Entrepreneurship


Self-employment rates for immigrants and natives in U.S. metropolitan areas with
the largest immigrant populations:


By percent, for employed persons 25 and over:


Location Natives Immigrants


Washington 10.0 13.8

San Francisco 13.9 13.7

Miami 13.5 12.7

Los Angeles 14.2 12.4

Chicago 9.4 10.1

Houston 10.9 11.4

New York 11.2 9.5

Boston 9.6 6.5

Dallas 10.2 6.4

Balance of country 11.9 11.3


Total U.S.  11.8 11.3


SOURCE: Center for Immigration Studies, based on a combined sample of the U.S.
Census Bureau's March 1997 and 1998 Current Population Surveys.



LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              118 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 18, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Cuban Official Speaks to Pope About Boy's Case

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: VATICAN CITY, Jan.17


Cuba's foreign minister said today that he briefed Pope John Paul II on the case
of a Cuban boy caught in a tug-of-war between the United States and Cuba, but
did not ask him to intervene.

Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque is in Europe seeking support for the return
of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez, who was rescued at sea Nov. 25 after his mother
drowned trying to reach the United States.

Perez Roque said he talked to the pope about "how Elian is being kept separated
from his father---something the pope was very worried about." He said he hoped
the meeting would help raise international concern for Elian.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has ruled the boy must be
returned to his father in Cuba. But Attorney General Janet Reno last week lifted
an INS deadline so Elian's relatives in Miami could fight a federal court battle
to keep the boy. A Florida judge also has scheduled a hearing in the case.

Some U.S. politicians and Cuban-Americans have suggested congressional action to
give Elian permanent residency or even American citizenship.

"If it had been a Haitian or Mexican boy, they would have thrown him back into
the sea," Perez Roque said after meeting with Italian Prime Minister Massimo
D'Alema.

The Vatican had no comment on Elian, but indicated it used the papal audience
and Perez Roque's sessions with the Vatican secretary of state and foreign
minister to push for more religious freedom in Cuba.


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              119 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 23, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

A Diverse, Growing Population

Scott Wilson; Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 794 words


The Washington region, more than any other major U.S. urban area, draws
immigrants from across Latin America. Unlike Los Angeles, Miami, Chicago or New
York, no single nationality dominates the Hispanic population here. The creation
of this multiethnic community can be traced to Washington's unique role as the
nation's capital.

Hispanic migration to the city began in the years immediately after World War
II, when Latin American embassies proliferated and international organizations
were established here. Many of the professionals who staffed those organizations
put down roots in Washington, bringing domestic workers who also remained--and
sent word home that the city was a place of opportunity.

At the same time, particularly as President Lyndon B. Johnson began his "war on
poverty," the growing federal government attracted significant numbers of
educated, American-born workers of Puerto Rican and Mexican ancestry from other
parts of the country.

But Washington soon became a primary destination for refugees who grew up in
countries where the capital city served as the traditional center of commerce,
culture and education.

In the 1950s and '60s, Caribbean revolutions brought Cubans and Dominicans. In
the late '70s and early '80s, Andean drought spurred Peruvians and Bolivians.
With the '80s and '90s came the largest wave, tens of thousands of Salvadorans,
Guatemalans and Nicaraguans fleeing civil war in Central America.

A significant demographic divide exists between the newest arrivals and the more
established Latinos. A survey conducted by The Washington Post, the Henry J.
Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard University indicates that Latinos born in
the United States are far more prosperous and better educated than the
immigrants, and trace their ancestry to a different mix of countries. In fact,
they are slightly better educated than the rest of the Washington region.

There are significant differences among immigrants, as well.

About one in four area Latino immigrants was born in South America, making
Washington one of the few cities in the United States with a large concentration
of residents from those nations.

Many of those families originated in the urban middle class, and the survey
shows that they are better educated and more prosperous than the area's other
Latino immigrants.

Jorge and Rocio Venegas are among them. University graduates and high school
teachers in Bolivia, the couple first saw Washington in 1978. Now Jorge
supervises a Sodexho Marriott housekeeping unit of 21 workers. One child is in
college; the other is college bound.

The United States "gave my son and daughter their education and their
opportunity to live a better life," said Venegas, 48, who purchased a house in
Arlington 12 years ago. "I can return to my country with my wife, but in our
country, they won't have the same opportunity they have here."

Nearly 60 percent of Latino immigrants in the Washington area identify
themselves as natives of Central America, and two in five describe themselves as
Salvadorans--the largest community in the region's Hispanic mosaic. Large
portions of some Salvadoran villages--Chirilagua and Intipuca, among them--have
resettled in Washington and its suburbs. Because so many of those immigrants
fled rural areas during the civil wars, their education and income levels are
particularly low, according to the survey.

The diversity and newness of the Hispanic population has complicated efforts to
unite the community in a political bloc.

The survey suggests that the region's Latino immigrants have maintained
particularly strong ties to their homelands. The vast majority remain legal
citizens abroad, and more than a third have voted in their native country since
coming to the United States.

Fewer than half of Washington area Latinos are U.S. citizens, and barely a third
of the population is registered to vote.

"Only if they organize can they make things better here," said Francisco
Pacheco, a Salvadoran activist and former guerrilla organizer now teaching
community leadership classes to Latinos in suburban Maryland. "The idea is to
wake up their interest in a common community. It is very difficult but not
impossible."


Washington's Latinos: Rich Diversity

For all Latino adults, including immigrants


Washington Area The Nation

Central American 48% 10%

Salvadoran 31 6

Guatemalan 9 1

South American 24 6

Puerto Rican 8 10

Mexican 7 61

Cuban 2 5

Other 10 8


Note: The numbers don't add up to 100 percent due to rounding.


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              120 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 23, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

The ABCs of Elian's Predicament

Jeff Balch

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 856 words


What should happen to Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old Cuban boat boy? Everyone
seems to have an opinion. Who's right? Take the quiz!


1. THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE. After mulling it over for six
weeks, INS officials said that he belongs with his surviving parent--his father
in Cuba. They should have:

a) decided within two days that Elian belongs with his father

b) taken as much time as needed to put the question to Florida voters in a
special referendum

c) mulled it over for 12 years, by which time Elian would have reached maturity


2. PRESIDENT CLINTON. He said Elian's case, being of an international nature,
should be decided by the INS--and that politics should play no role in settling
the issue. The president:

a) was right, and should meet personally with Elian at Disney World to hug him
and tenderly explain the rationale for his repatriation

b) was right, and should meet personally with Fidel Castro at Disney World to
hug him and tenderly explain the rationale for our continued unilateral embargo

c) was right, but should meet with Sylvia Iriondo, fiery spokeswoman for the
Cuban American protesters. A hug would be nice, but only if his pollsters
approve


3. ATTORNEY GENERAL JANET RENO. She asserted that the INS decision was correct
and that a state court judge in Florida, who had granted temporary custody of
Elian to his great-uncle, had no jurisdiction. The attorney general:

a) cannot understand Elian's needs until she has a child of her own

b) made the right call, assuming she's in touch with the Pentagon regarding
National Guard backup

c) should appoint an independent counsel, damn it!


4. VICE PRESIDENT GORE. He broke with the Clinton administration, arguing that
the INS lacked the expertise to decide the case and that it properly belonged in
the courts. He should:

a) adopt Elian, bring him along on the campaign trail and challenge Bill Bradley
to adopt a Cuban boy, too

b) instruct his motorcade to drive around Nashville blocking traffic

c) make citizenship for Elian a litmus test for prospective Supreme Court
justices


5. REP. DAN BURTON (R-IND.). He subpoenaed Elian to appear before his House
Government Reform Committee, in order to delay compliance with an INS decision
he judged to be rushed. His appropriate next step would be to:

a) introduce a bill to terminate funding for the INS and, at the same time, the
rest of the executive branch

b) introduce a bill to triple INS funding, enabling the department to purchase
inner tubes and life jackets and sell them at a discount in the Florida Straits

c) subpoena Elian's mother in a crafty bid for further delay


6. SEN. BOB SMITH (R-N.H.). After meeting with Elian, he announced that the
6-year-old boy preferred the United States to Cuba and that the INS had failed
to consider the boy's father's alleged consent to his ex-wife's plan to defect
with their son. He vowed to do anything in his power to keep Elian in the United
States. He now should:

a) introduce a bill to provide Secret Service protection for the boy's father in
the event that Smith's allegation about him is publicized in Cuba

b) spend a sabbatical year teaching constitutional law to first-graders

c) come to my house and vigorously defend my 8-month-old daughter's preference
for sweet potato over beets


7. ELIZABET BROTON RODRIGUEZ, ELIAN'S MOTHER. She took him with her in a rickety
boat that foundered, but helped him survive. She acted:

a) bravely, but should have left Elian with his father when the boat had to
return to the Cuban shore for repairs

b) presciently, somehow foreseeing the possibility that Elian's grandmothers
would soon be making the journey from Cuba themselves

c) recklessly, neglecting to file a will with the INS delegating Elian's
guardianship to Sen. Bob Smith


8. JUAN MIGUEL GONZALEZ, ELIAN'S FATHER. He has asserted custody rights but has
refused so far to leave his wife and infant son and come to the United
States--perhaps because he is not free to leave Cuba, perhaps because he fears
he would be trapped here until the case is over. He:

a) should contact Burton's office and request that his wife and baby be
subpoenaed, too

b) fails to grasp that Elian's need to grieve is best fulfilled during Disney
World tours and photo-ops with caring politicians

c) cannot, as a member of Cuba's Communist Party, truly love Elian


9. MIAMI-DADE CIRCUIT COURT JUDGE ROSA RODRIGUEZ. She determined that she had
limited jurisdiction over Elian's case. She should:

a) attend Sen. Bob Smith's class on constitutional law


10. CUBAN PRESIDENT FIDEL CASTRO. He has harshly criticized the U.S.
government's handling of Elian's case. He is:

a) intolerant of political dissent in his own country, but correct on this issue

b) grandstanding, but correct on this issue

c) ambivalent about the case and its repercussions, but hoping Elian will pick
up some spare parts for a '57 Chevy before he returns



Jeff Balch, a freelance writer who lives outside Chicago, never did well on
multiple choice tests in school.



LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, phil marden for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              121 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    January 24, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

Northern Border Has an Extra Edge; Security Tighter on Friendly Vermont-Canada
Frontier

Pamela Ferdinand, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: DERBY LINE, Vt.


Brian Fletcher's property backs up to a forest, which in these parts means his
yard serves as an unofficial entryway for illegal immigrants sneaking into the
United States from Canada.

From his porch, Fletcher sees shadowy figures carrying backpacks and
"you-don't-know-what-else" emerge from the thicket of trees behind his house,
and he rushes to alert border police. It doesn't take long for authorities to
nab suspicious intruders in this northern Vermont village of less than 900
people, where customs stations outnumber grocery stores and enforcing
international security is a way of life.

"It's all part of living on the border," says Fletcher, with a mild-mannered
shrug.

Derby Line, like few other small towns across the nation, is literally spliced
in two in places where Vermont collides with Quebec through the center of
buildings and down the middle of streets. A painted black stripe runs through a
historic library and opera house, demarcating national boundaries established
more than a century ago, and homeowners in one nation must report to customs
before visiting their neighbors in the other. Signs posted along roads leading
into foreign territory instruct travelers in English and French to report to the
nearest manned inspection station, creating a maze-like terrain where wrong
turns can result in inadvertent border-jumping and possible arrest.

All this would be mere grist for the novelty mill if it were not for the
events--or, as some here say, non-events--in late December. The Dec. 19 arrest
of an Algerian man and Canadian woman at a border crossing east of here in
Beecher Falls, Vt., coupled with the capture of an Algerian in Washington state
on bomb-related charges, caused nationwide jitters and shifted attention from
the hectic Mexican border to the 3,897-mile northern stretch known as the
longest undefended frontier in the world.

Border stations have since been placed on heightened alert, and authorities are
rethinking the "low risk" status of certain crossings in remote areas. In
Vermont, agents who once worked solo have doubled up at the 14 official land
checkpoints along the state's 100-mile northern perimeter. They also are manning
continuously a rural port-of-entry in Pittsburg, N.H., formerly equipped after
hours with only a video camera.

"It didn't feel so bad when it was out in Washington state, but when they pulled
up at Beecher Falls, it got everyone extremely nervous," said Edward F. Cyr, who
is based here as area port director for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service. "I guess it's like the first time you get your car stolen or your
pocket picked. You feel a lot more vulnerable."

Overall, New England represented a fraction--about 13 million--of the nearly 116
million inspections conducted at northern border checkpoints in the last budget
year, according to INS. But that doesn't mean the hinterland of Vermont lacks
its own brand of excitement.

Agents in this region detained a relatively high number of people over those 12
months, with about 2,300 apprehensions in New England and eastern New York,
compared to 9,400 elsewhere along the border. Derby Line's low-slung facility on
Interstate 91, about a 90-minute drive from Montreal, is one of the most
frequented ports of entry in New England, INS figures show. Agents conducted
more than 1 million inspections here last year, detaining up to 140 people and
refusing entry to 1,000 others.

They found more than two dozen people, including 14 Chinese and 12 Pakistani
nationals, hidden in a truck between rolls of newsprint during a spot check in
September in what was the largest smuggling bust on the Vermont border. In
February, a kidnapping and sexual assault suspect wanted in Connecticut was
arrested here. And in July 1998, 27 Costa Ricans were found crammed into a van
driving along a nearby dirt road.

Federal prosecutors in Burlington, Vt., alleged the Canadian woman arrested in
December, Lucia Garofalo, had repeatedly tried to enter the United States with
illegal immigrants, once attempting to cross the border in the middle of the
night on an unguarded rural road west of here. Garofalo remains in custody
without bail on charges of smuggling and passport violations.

Prosecutors, who have not charged Garofalo, 35, with any terrorist-related
crimes, recently used telephone records to try to link her to Ahmed Ressam, the
Algerian arrested with explosives in Washington state, and one of his
accomplices. Garofalo has denied she is part of a terrorist conspiracy. Border
agents, who noticed her route was unusual and itinerary vague, are not so sure.
Said Cyr, "My boss told me the other day, 'We'll probably never know what we
stopped, but I swear we were stopping something.' "

While Cyr and others want more resources to deter future gate-crashing, many
Vermonters--including Gov. Howard Dean (D)--say they will fight to keep the
border with their top economic partner as open as possible. Derby Line, in
particular, shares some municipal services with its foreign neighbor and sees a
steady flow of international tourists and commuters throughout the year. Given
the weak Canadian dollar, it's not uncommon for villagers to take advantage of
bargain groceries on the Quebec side while Canadians flock here to fill their
vehicles with less expensive gas.

Nowhere are the advantages of cross-pollination and the desire to sustain amity
more apparent than here at the Haskell Free Library and Opera House (motto:
"Good Books/Good Neighbors"), an ornate turn-of-the-century Queen Anne revival
building that physically straddles the border and has dual addresses and
telephone numbers, and an international board of trustees. The front door leads
to the Victorian homes and tree-lined streets of Derby Line, the back fire exit
opens onto Rock Island, Quebec. The building has hosted three criminal trials
involving smuggling of drugs, bombs and illegal immigrants with two judges--one
sitting on each side of the border.

"We function here like one community," said Kim Prangley, a second-generation
Haskell librarian with dual citizenship who lives in Canada. "So if they really
tighten up on border crossings, it would make life tougher not only for the
library, but people on both sides of the border."

Several residents said terrorism does not rank high on their list of daily
concerns, which are more likely to include the lower drinking age in Canada and
rowdy teenagers than the "so-called Algerian business." The fact that Garofalo
and her companion were stopped at the border is a source of comfort to locals
who have only to head down to the nearest flood-lit intersection for
confirmation they are surrounded by law enforcement.

In nearby Beebe Plain, where the border cleaves a main avenue in half and makes
neighborhood dinner parties tricky, an Alpine-style Canadian checkpoint building
sits just a crosswalk away from its brick U.S. counterpart. Another inspection
station stands here across from the Border Mini-Mart and next door to Village
Hall. Border Patrol and state police officers, immigration agents and the
sheriff live in town, too, and are active in organizations from the school board
to the International Boundary Rotary Club.

As Fletcher, the village road supervisor, put it, "Can't get away with nothing
in Derby Line."

INS agents at Derby Line, Vt., checkpoint on Interstate 91 conducted more than 1
million inspections last year, detaining about 140 people. INS agent Burton
McNeal questions Philip Lawandi of Montreal, who is crossing the border at Beebe
Plain, Vt., on his way to his weekend home on one of the state's lakes.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              122 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 2, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Austrian Right Defies Europe; Conservatives Enter Alliance With Party Denounced
by EU

William Drozdiak, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1114 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, Feb. 1


Defying threats by the European Union to impose a political quarantine on
Austria, the leader of the country's main conservative party announced tonight
that he had reached agreement on terms of a pact to form a new coalition
government with the far-right Freedom Party.

Wolfgang Schuessel, head of the Austrian People's Party, said he will present
the outline of a legislative program to President Thomas Klestil on Wednesday
morning, a move that may clear the way for participation by the Freedom Party,
whose xenophobic, anti-immigrant views have been condemned in Europe, the United
States and Israel.

At a hastily assembled news conference, Schuessel said he resolved the final
terms of a reform program tonight with Freedom Party leader Joerg Haider, who
has been branded a pariah by other European states for his anti-immigrant
diatribes, past statements praising Nazi labor policies and opposition to
bringing East European countries into the 15-member EU.

Schuessel acted a day after Austria's 14 partners in the EU, in an unprecedented
intrusion into the domestic politics of a member state, warned that if Haider's
party enters government it would cut political contacts with Austria, downgrade
the role of Vienna's ambassadors to their capitals and refuse to support
Austrians seeking posts in international organizations.

Schuessel's decision to flout the EU warning reflected widespread anger across
the political spectrum in this country of 8 million people over the threatened
sanctions. Austrians complained they had been unfairly singled out, while
Schuessel declared that EU demands that he break off talks with the Freedom
Party before hearing its policy proposals were "not fair and not in harmony with
the spirit of the European treaties."

Haider castigated the sanctions threat as "a massive offense to all honorable
democrats and decent citizens of Austria." He said the new government "will put
to shame all those who prematurely condemned us and tried to promote prejudice."

In Washington, State Department spokesman James Foley said "if the Freedom Party
were to enter the Austrian government, this would affect our relations, and we
would consider what steps to take in that event."

(And in Israel, Foreign Minister David Levy said Wednesday that his country will
withdraw its ambassador to Vienna if Haider's party joins a governing coalition.

"Should a coalition like that arise, our ambassador will return to Israel for an
indefinite period," Levy told Israel's army radio. "If such a coalition arises,
there is no place for an Israeli ambassador in Austria--period.")

As Austria's president, a largely ceremonial position, Klestil will decide
whether Schuessel will be able to assume power as chancellor at the head of a
rightist government that includes the Freedom Party. Even though that might
provoke the most serious diplomatic crisis here in more than a half-century,
Schuessel expressed confidence Klestil would let him proceed rather than call
new elections. "Austria is a stable country that is and will remain open to the
world," Schuessel said. "But it now needs a functioning government fast."

Many Austrians professed shock at what they considered the impetuous and unfair
nature of the EU decision. They noted that Italy was not penalized in 1994 when
a new conservative government, headed by media impresario Silvio Berlusconi,
included the separatist Northern League and the National Alliance, a party
considered by some to be the heir to Mussolini's Fascists.

Similarly, France did not suffer any consequences in 1981 when President
Francois Mitterrand's Socialists allied with the hard-line Communist Party of
Georges Marchais, who never condemned Soviet leader Joseph Stalin's reign of
terror.

"We absolutely reject the possibility of accepting that foreigners can decide
over us," said acting Defense Minister Werner Fasslabend, a member of
Schuessel's party. "We must now keep a cool head, but it must be totally beyond
dispute that Austria can in no way yield to this pressure from abroad."

Haider's opponents also expressed dismay with the EU action, saying it could
provoke a popular backlash that would only boost his standing among the
electorate. An opinion survey published here today said the Freedom Party would
win 33 percent of the vote if national elections were held now, up from the
record 27 percent it won when it finished second in parliamentary elections Oct.
3.

Klestil has tried to avoid the kind of international isolation Austria suffered
during the 1986-1992 presidency of Kurt Waldheim--who tried to hide his World
War II service record as a member of a German army unit involved in atrocities.
The president had urged the People's Party and the left-of-center Social
Democrats to renew their 13-year governing alliance, but the distrust between
Schuessel and outgoing Social Democratic chancellor Viktor Klima proved so great
that their negotiations on a new government collapsed last week after nearly
four months.

"If Klestil now opts for fresh elections, there is almost no doubt that the
Freedom Party would emerge strengthened, and perhaps even come out as the
biggest party in the land," said Werner Beutelmeyer, a prominent political
pollster. Faced with the alternative of early elections that could give the
Freedom Party an even greater claim on power and possibly make Haider
chancellor, many commentators say Klestil will probably offer grudging consent
for a new rightist government despite his deep misgivings.

While many Austrians consider Haider a populist firebrand rather than an
exemplar of neo-Nazi thinking, some European governments fear he would
legitimize xenophobic sentiments across Europe and fuel the rise of far-right
parties in their own countries.

Yet even more than his anti-immigrant rhetoric, what scares many European
governments is that Haider's party in power would send a negative signal to
prospective EU members in Eastern Europe.

Haider has said that this would leave Austrians vulnerable to an influx of cheap
labor, but Schuessel says Haider has agreed to support further expansion of the
EU.


Staff writer Steven Mufson in Washington contributed to this report.

Flemish Christian Party leader Stefaan Declerck, center, takes part in Brussels
protest of proposed Austrian coalition. Placards at right say: 'Where are you
going, Austria' and 'Austrian People's Party joins with fascists'--suggesting
the 1938 Anschluss in which Austria was incorporated into Nazi Germany. Freedom
Party leader Joerg Haider gestures to reporters at Parliament building prior to
final meeting with People's Party on alliance.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              123 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 3, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Most 'Unaccompanied Minors' Quickly Sent Back

Cindy Loose, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 306 words


In immigration parlance, Elian Gonzalez is an "unaccompanied minor." The arrival
of such minors on U.S. soil, and their return to their home countries, is an
everyday occurrence.

In any given year, the Immigration and Naturalization Service apprehends 5,000
children arriving in the United States without their parents. The children most
often are from China, Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, according to
a spokeswoman. Most are teenage boys.

"Most of the kids are churned through the INS system really fast," said Wendy
Young, of the Women's Commission for Refugees, Women and Children. "You name a
world hot spot, and you'll probably find unaccompanied minors from that country,
and they'll probably be sent home."

Poverty and repression in a home country are not enough to warrant political
asylum at any age: Otherwise, a large chunk of the world's population could
assert a right to live in the United States. Rather, under U.S. law, the person
must show he or she specifically faces persecution because of race, religion,
nationality or political opinion.

Even if Elian were targeted by the regime of Fidel Castro, Justice Department
officials say that only his father would have the right to speak for him on
immigration matters--despite the team of lawyers who say they speak for him.

Elian, in a childish scrawl, printed his first name on paperwork submitted to a
federal court, informing the court that he had consented to having the various
lawyers appear on his behalf. But family law experts said they find that
ludicrous.

"For any attorney saying a little kid signed a letter making me his
attorney--that's absurd," said Michael Oddenio, general counsel for the
Children's Rights Council, a nonprofit group that has filed a
friend-of-the-court brief supporting the Justice Department.

LOAD-DATE: February 03, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              124 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 6, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Borderline Hypocrisy; Do We Want Them Here, Or Not?

Louis Freedberg

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1890 words


From where I crouched--in a ditch on the Mexican side of the steel fence that
snakes up and down the caons on the outskirts of Tijuana--the border seemed
impenetrable. On the U.S. side, bulldozers had cleared away all vegetation,
leaving no hiding place from the Border Patrol agents who waited in shiny white
SUVs.

The dozen Mexicans I was with knew where to go. As dusk approached, we darted
forward and crawled through a small hole at the bottom of the fence, into
California. Ahead of us lay a minefield of ground sensors, sophisticated
surveillance equipment and checkpoints, and it was far from certain that my
companions would make it through. Twice in the preceding week, they had tried to
cross, but had been apprehended and sent back to Mexico.

Still, they were determined to try again, because the reward was worth the risk.
All but one of them had jobs waiting: picking crops in Salinas, Calif., working
construction in Los Angeles, washing dishes in a restaurant in Chicago.

Those determined Mexican workers making the crossing last fall symbolize one of
the most glaring contradictions at the heart of U.S. immigration policy: Even as
U.S. taxpayers are spending billions of dollars to keep illegal immigrants out
of the country, that effort is being severely undercut by hundreds of thousands
of otherwise presumably law-abiding employers who offer the immigrants work that
most Americans are loath to do.

In this booming economy, America's de facto policy on illegal immigrants is
"don't ask, don't tell." Neither the immigrant who needs a job nor the employer
who needs a worker has much incentive to obey the laws against hiring
undocumented aliens. Congress has responded sympathetically to the pleas of the
high-tech industry to hire more skilled workers from abroad, but it has yet to
do anything for employers of those at the bottom end of the labor market--the
end where U.S. citizens don't want to work.

Now, with a record number of illegal immigrants living in the United States--an
estimated 6 million, with most of them working, some even paying taxes and
joining unions--it is time to bring our immigration policies in line with what
is actually happening in the labor market. It is time to recognize that we need
the immigrants as much as they need us.


As an immigrant myself, I had a far easier route into the United States than my
companions on the border: Thirty years ago, I arrived on a plane from South
Africa to attend Yale University on a scholarship, and I became a citizen 15
years later. But on some level I identify with those Mexicans entering at the
bottom rung of society. We were all motivated by the same desires: to share in
the riches, educational or otherwise, that America has to offer.

I joined the Mexicans last fall as part of a year-long exploration into U.S.
immigration laws that has taken me from the dusty fields of California's Central
Valley to a housing project outside Washington, D.C., populated by migrants from
a single village in El Salvador. On my travels, I've talked with illegal
immigrants picking crops, cleaning office buildings, and painting the houses and
tending the children of my friends. In most cases, no one asks if they are here
legally or not. Most Americans benefit from immigrants' work without having to
acknowledge their shady status.

Throughout America's history, each new wave of immigration has been met with
suspicion or outright hostility, especially during economically troubling times.
The most recent wave, beginning in the 1970s, has been dominated by
Spanish-speaking migrants who by now make up about half of the 26.5 million
foreign-born residents of the United States. More than 7 million of these come
from Mexico. Unlike their predecessors, these migrants had no ocean to
cross--they literally could walk to the United States.

By the mid-1980s, the number of illegal immigrants in America was estimated at
between 3 million and 5 million. To stem the flow, Congress in 1986 approved the
landmark Immigration Reform and Control Act, which for the first time imposed
fines on employers who hired illegal immigrants. To ensure a stable work force
for U.S. employers, the law also granted a generous amnesty to immigrants who
could prove they had been in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982. Because the
influential agricultural industry had particular need of migrant workers, the
law offered amnesty to farm workers who had been here for a much shorter time.

The outcome was not what lawmakers had anticipated. By the time all the amnesty
applications had been processed, an unexpectedly high total number of
immigrants, nearly 3 million, had been granted permanent residency. Their new
"green cards" opened up undreamed-of employment options. Within two or three
years of receiving their legal papers, large numbers left the jobs that the
amnesty was designed to fill in search of more lucrative work. The exodus from
farms was especially dramatic: Today, fewer than 300,000 out of the 1.2 million
farm workers legalized under the 1986 law are still in agriculture. In a final
irony, a number of them began working at the one trade for which they had unique
qualifications: recruiting workers, many of them illegal, for the agriculture
industry. And so a new generation of undocumented immigrants flooded into the
fields.

Meanwhile, the enforcement provisions of the 1986 law were ineffectual. As
Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner once told me,
the law has "loopholes large enough you could drive a Mack truck through them."

The most obvious is that in order to prove a violation, the INS has to show that
an employer knowingly has hired an illegal worker. That's almost impossible:
Under the law, a job seeker can show any one of 25 approved documents to prove
legal residence, including the obscure Alien Registration Receipt Card or Coast
Guard Merchant Mariner Card. The flourishing fraudulent document industry is
happy to sell such papers, and few employers are held accountable for not being
able to verify them. The General Accounting Office has estimated that the INS is
only able to check on 3 percent of the employers who are thought to harbor
illegal immigrants.

So the number of illegal immigrants has kept growing. To deter them, the federal
government initiated the first serious effort to seal our southern border,
beginning with Operation Hold the Line in El Paso in 1993.

Again, the law had consequences its framers didn't intend. Though the U.S.
spends about $ 2 billion a year to control the Mexican border, there is no solid
evidence that fewer migrants are trying to cross--or that fewer are making it.
On the contrary, there is ample evidence that because it is more difficult and
more expensive to cross, people who in earlier days might have migrated
seasonally--returning to Mexico for the winter--are staying longer once they get
here, adding to the permanent illegal population instead of reducing it.

The result? There are about twice as many illegal immigrants in the United
States than there were a decade ago. More than half are from Mexico. Because of
the voracious appetite of our full-employment economy, the numbers are unlikely
to decline any time soon. Over the past year, I have come across numerous
companies that say they had to fill their job slots with foreigners--and have
jumped through bureaucratic hoops to fill them legally. A St. Louis trucking
firm went to Barbados to find drivers. A Wisconsin amusement park signed up
students from Bosnia. The Hilton Hotel near the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport hired
Kosovo refugees, while another Dallas hotel recruited housekeepers from Jamaica.

But many employers simply hire workers who present what appear to be legal
documents, including false Social Security cards. Those who get on a formal
payroll--in chicken or meatpacking plants, or on major construction sites--find
that Social Security and income taxes are routinely deducted from their
paychecks. Of course, because they're illegal, most will never claim tax refunds
or get Social Security benefits.


What is to be done? One option being discussed in Congress is to expand visa
programs already on the books that would allow growers to import foreign workers
temporarily, along the lines of European "guest worker" programs. But as
Europeans have discovered, people who come to a richer nation temporarily
usually end up staying permanently.

Another option would be to extend a new amnesty to illegal immigrants, which
would allow them to live permanently in the United States. The most public push
in this direction has come from growers, who have a permanent need for unskilled
laborers. Sens. Bob Graham (D-Fla.) and Gordon Smith (R-Ore.) have introduced
legislation that would allow undocumented farm workers to earn amnesty if they
agree to stay in agriculture for five years. In response to the concerns of
advocates for farm workers that this represents a form of indentured servitude,
the bill would also require growers to pay 5 percent above prevailing wages, and
contribute to their workers' housing and transportation costs.

Similar ideas are spreading to other sectors of the labor market. The AFL-CIO,
for example, is under pressure from within its ranks to reverse its
long-standing support for employer sanctions, and to come out in favor of
amnesty for illegal immigrants. Leading the campaign is Eliseo Medina, head of
the Service Employees International Union in Los Angeles, which has successfully
unionized janitors despite the fact that many of its members are here illegally.
"You shouldn't have people living in the shadows, under threat of deportation,"
Medina, a former migrant farm worker, told me last summer. "The bottom line is
that this country needs people to work in these jobs. It is only right that they
have their status recognized."

Offering a new amnesty has its pitfalls--even if we try to protect ourselves
from some of the failures of the 1986 law. It runs the risk of legitimizing a
system that essentially says that anyone who has been bold enough to evade
immigration authorities will be allowed to stay here. It runs the risk of
encouraging even more migrants to cross unlawfully into the United States. It
rewards people who have broken laws to get here, hardly the kind of lesson we
want to teach prospective citizens.

But what are the alternatives? To invade productive workplaces across America
and deport millions of workers? To do nothing and allow them to live "in the
shadows," with few legal protections and limited access to health care and
social services? A better way is to figure out reasonable ways to incorporate
these undocumented aliens into the larger American community.

We cannot eliminate the desire of millions of people in poorer or more
repressive countries to come to America; it was the same desire that brought
almost all of us, or our forebears, here. What we can eliminate is the
hypocrisy. Ultimately, it comes down to accepting America's destiny as a nation
of immigrants, and embracing those from whose labor we willingly profit.



Louis Freedberg, an Alicia Patterson Journalism Fellow, is an anthropologist and
journalist who has reported extensively on immigrant communities in the United
States.




LOAD-DATE: February 06, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, matthew martin for The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              125 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 7, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

By the Numbers; Divided Over Immigrants' Impact; One Study Sees a Threat to
Suburbs, Another Finds Successes

Peter Behr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F13

LENGTH: 686 words



The fruits from a tide of immigration into the Washington region over the past
two decades are plentiful and plain to see, from Ali Shali's simple Kurdish
restaurant at a Falls Church strip mall to the Indian CEO High Tech Council, the
gatherings of which feature a growing number of millionaire technology
entrepreneurs.

But so are the costs and challenges, as immigrants with limited English struggle
to make their way. One 1998-99 survey put the unemployment rate among
Alexandria's Hispanic residents at 12 percent, for example, almost six times the
city's overall jobless figure.

Throughout the Washington suburbs, school enrollments document a dramatic
increase in immigrant populations.

The percentage of students with limited English proficiency rose 20.3 percent
from 1995 to 1998 in the Maryland suburbs and 15.7 percent in Northern Virginia,
while declining by 3.3 percent in the District, according to the Greater
Washington Research Center (www.gwrc.org).

Brookings Institution analysts argued last year that the financial health of
older Washington-area suburbs is threatened by growing concentrations of
low-income immigrant students. The Brookings report, "A Region Divided," said
that schools with high percentages of immigrant and minority students "struggle
to create an effective learning environment for students from distressed
families, but they face enormous difficulties." The result is a "flight of
middle-class families from distressed schools [which] only accelerates decline
in the neighborhood overall," said the report. (Web site: www.brook.edu)

But a new analysis of the Washington region by urban analyst Dowell Myers points
in a different direction, toward evidence of economic success within immigrant
communities.

"The force of upward mobility is neglected because it is disguised by the
changing composition of the population," he said. New arrivals, typically young
people, frequently land at the bottom, with limited English, education and job
skills, said Myers, a University of Southern California professor writing in
Housing Policy Debate, published by the Fannie Mae Foundation. (Web site:
www.fanniemaefoundation.org)

In areas where immigration is growing, it will appear that poverty is increasing
because of the impact of the newcomers, but those measurements miss the point
that older, more established immigrants have moved on economically, he said.

Myers uses Census data recording when immigrants entered the United States to
live, permitting him to track how immigrants' income changed over time.

On average, 15 percent of the immigrants arriving in the 1970s were below the
poverty level, according to the 1980 census. But by the 1990 census, the poverty
rate for this group had dropped to slightly more than 5 percent--lower than the
overall rate for the Washington region that year.

A higher percentage of Latino immigrants to the Washington area were living
below the poverty line than were immigrants from Asia, in both 1980 and 1990,
Myers found. But for both groups, the extent of poverty declined significantly,
he said.

Myers agrees with the Brookings analysts on one key point.

"The big problem is that certain areas [like Washington's older suburbs] become
immigrant gateways and get caught carrying all the costs for preparing
immigrants to succeed." On the other side of the ledger, immigrant communities
also revitalize commercial areas and pump new life into housing, he said.

How all of these currents played out in the 1990s won't be known until the 2000
census results are released. Few communities have a bigger stake in those
answers than does the nation's capital region.


A Diversity Challenge


One measure of the Washington area's increasing immigrant population is the
number of area schoolchildren who need help communicating in English.


Limited English proficiency enrollments

1995 to 1998, percent change


D.C.  - 3.3%

Suburban Maryland 20.3%

No. Va.  15.7%

Wash. area 12.6%


SOURCE: Greater Washington Research Center



LOAD-DATE: February 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              126 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 10, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Immigrant Lesson Comes Alive; For Many Students, History Project Seems Close to
Home

Emily Wax, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 840 words



The homework assignment scribbled on the blackboard in the seventh-grade
Arlington social studies class read: "Draw what you think a typical immigrant in
the year 2000 looks like."

One of the handouts was an immigration crossword puzzle with questions like,
"What's happening to Asian and Latin American countries today that causes many
immigrants to come to the U.S.?" And the field trip was a boisterous bus ride to
Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty.

All 240 seventh-graders at Gunston Middle School have spent the last month
plunging into the history of immigration in the United States. For most of them,
the lesson doesn't go back very far.

About 65 percent of Gunston's students are immigrants or the sons and daughters
of foreign-born parents, and many of the seventh-graders say the immigration
project has made them feel that their lives are an important part of U.S.
history.

"I actually felt sort of proud to be an immigrant at this school," said
Bangladeshi native Madiha Khan, 13, as she unloaded her locker and listed facts
she had learned about her old country from her parents as part of a class
assignment. "The food is spicy. We used to be part of India, and we are mostly
Muslims. My parents really wanted to come here so I could have a better life. We
are actually studying something that I am a part of."

The project, which lasts eight weeks and spans English, math, social studies and
computer classes, included an Ellis Island reenactment in the school cafeteria.
Students were packed onto "boats" and got squirted with water--to simulate the
chilly ocean journey--and they were not allowed to utter sentences longer than
two words, so they could better understand the language barrier immigrants
faced.

"This is the unit that the students get instantly," said Barbara Formoso, who
teaches English to immigrant students at Gunston. "For once, it's in their
backgrounds. For once, they are the experts. You may talk about the American
Revolution, but that's not something they can bring a lot to."

Increasingly, schools across the country with large immigrant populations are
using lessons in the classroom to help students take pride in their heritage and
share their roots. The units help foreign-born students feel accepted and also
increase empathy for the immigrant experience among American-born students,
educators say.

"Students suddenly realize that their families are not that weird." said Pastora
San Juan Cafferty, a University of Chicago social policy professor. "I think
that too often the immigrant experience is not seen as a continuum. Somehow we
treat this as if it never happened before."

In the halls of Gunston, maps of Africa and Central America and Asia are pasted
above lockers. Inside Stefanie Holbrook's social studies class yesterday,
students were discussing whether the statements she had given to them were for
or against immigration.

Raquel Terrazas, 12, was wearing two silver clips in her dark hair. She had
black polish dabbed on her fingernails. She is American in every way. But her
parents were born in Bolivia, something she never thought about much until now.

"Immigrants had hard journeys," she said. "They were all stuffed into these
stinky ships. I didn't realize it was so hard for my parents."

Many students said they now feel more sympathy toward their parents, whom they
have sometimes been ashamed of because of their accents and different ways of
dressing.

"Everybody was an immigrant at one point," said Julie Brobeck, 13, whose parents
are from Spain and Cuba. "I guess I never realized that."

In Formoso's classes, students were assigned to interview their parents about
why they came to the United States, what their expectations were and how those
have changed. They used the information to write an essay called "Hardships and
Dreams."

The assignment helped Willy Ekasone, 12, a small boy with spiky black hair,
learn more about Laos, the country his parents are from. "I also learned how
immigrants were treated badly, like my parents," he said. "It took them a long
time to get jobs and get money."

Teachers said they also discuss arguments against immigration. Occasionally
students, even those with immigrant backgrounds, decide they don't want more
people coming to this country.

As she stood in the hall at school yesterday, Madiha recalled how she sometimes
felt left out around non-immigrant students, unsure if they understood her
background. So she melded into American life. Her favorite male pop band is 'N
Sync, and she clips their photographs and tapes them inside her locker.

But sometimes she wants people to know she's from Bangladesh. Now it seems a
little easier to explain, she said as she slammed her locker shut.

Melissa Westwick left, of Polish and Scottish descent, and Sara Remedios of
Asian and Irish descent, consult. Stefanie Holbrook talks with Danny Villatoro,
13, left, and Victor Salmeron, 12, both of Salvadoran descent, while they work
on an immigration project.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              127 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  February 16, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Can't Link Canadian to Terrorist Plot

David A. Vise , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 425 words


A Canadian woman who federal officials had linked to a group of Algerians
suspected of planning bomb attacks in the United States was released from
federal prison yesterday in Vermont after prosecutors said she knew nothing
about any terrorist plot.

Lucia Garofalo pleaded guilty to two immigration charges--attempting to
transport an alien into the United States and conspiracy to transport
aliens--and was turned over to U.S. immigration officials. Her attorney,
Maryanne Kampmann, said Garofalo could be released by immigration authorities as
early as Friday, return to Montreal, and then come back to the United States for
sentencing in the spring.

"We do not have evidence that she knowingly participated in any terrorist
activities," said U.S. Attorney Charles R. Tetzlaff. "Having said that, this
investigation continues on a number of fronts in Washington and New York and
Vermont, and we will see where the evidence leads us."

While Garofalo could face a maximum of 10 years in jail, Kampmann said she
likely would serve six to 12 months based on her plea agreement. Kampmann said
the government will argue that Garofalo was transporting aliens across the
Canadian-U.S. border to make money.

"There was nothing linking her to terrorism," Kampmann said. "She doesn't know
anything."

Tetzlaff disagreed, saying there are various links between Garofalo and
terrorists but no hard evidence linking her to a terrorist plot after she was
questioned by federal investigators.

Federal prosecutors had used telephone records to indirectly tie Garofalo to
Ahmed Ressam, an Algerian arrested in mid-December for crossing the border from
Canada to Washington state with explosives materials in the trunk of his car.
But the phone records proved to be inconclusive.

Yesterday, the Seattle Times reported that federal prosecutors have filed a
motion asking Ressam to provide blood and saliva for DNA tests, according to
court filings. The filings said that law enforcement authorities have uncovered
evidence that Ressam apparently burned himself while handling dangerous
bomb-making materials in his Montreal apartment.

An examination of Ressam's limbs by FBI agents last week revealed recent scars
on his upper right leg that appear to be burns, according to court documents,
and investigators found a pair of pants and sneakers in Ressam's Montreal
apartment that show burn marks and holes caused by a chemical reaction from an
explosive called EGDN. Traces of another explosive, RDX, also were discovered on
his clothing.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              128 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 20, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Victimized Woman Faces Deportation; System Designed to Help 'Turned Against'
Mother Who Can't Speak English

Philip P. Pan , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2171 words



The bruises on her neck have faded but not the memory of his hands around her
throat. Ask Maria Sanchez about it, and the young hairdresser quietly describes
how her husband attacked her at a friend's home on Thanksgiving, choking her
into unconsciousness in front of their children.

Ask whether she called the police, and she says no--she knows better.

The last time police visited Sanchez's home in Fairfax County, the officers
arrested her for biting her husband's shoulder. She tried to tell them he had
been beating her again, that she was defending herself--but, unlike her husband,
Sanchez speaks little English, and the officers didn't speak Spanish.

Language put her in peril in court, too. Sanchez says she didn't know what was
happening as she signed a form, printed in English, waiving her right to
counsel, then pleaded guilty to misdemeanor assault. The court interpreter at
her trial has failed Virginia's certification exam three times.

Now, because of a recent law requiring the deportation of legal immigrants
convicted of domestic violence, the government is trying to force the
30-year-old mother of two back to her native Guatemala.

Sanchez's story offers a glimpse into the isolation of immigrant women trapped
in violent relationships, women who feel they have nowhere to turn in a foreign
land, who are afraid to call police because they can't speak English or are here
illegally.

And it shows that even when these women do reach out for help, the police,
courts and immigration authorities may not intervene effectively--and might make
matters worse.

"Law enforcement has made great strides against domestic violence," says Lori
Humphreys, managing attorney of the domestic violence program at Ayuda, the
Adams-Morgan legal clinic. "But these women are in a particularly difficult
position. . . . It's a huge problem, and people are only beginning to address
it."

Over the past decade, most police agencies have adopted strict policies to fight
domestic violence, requiring officers to make arrests when they see any sign of
abuse. But these same agencies are short on bilingual staff, and their officers
routinely make critical arrest decisions after interviews conducted in broken
English.

In addition, neither Virginia nor Maryland sets minimum standards for court
interpreters, though immigrant families account for up to one-fourth of the
domestic violence cases in some courts.

Advocates for battered women say Sanchez's experience is remarkable only because
it demonstrates how much can go wrong when a woman seeks help--and why most
women in her situation choose instead to suffer in silence.

"The system didn't just fail this woman," Humphreys says. "It turned against
her."

Sanchez was 18 when she left her family in Guatemala in 1988 and set out for
Washington. She moved into the Fairfax apartment of her boyfriend, Mardoqueo
Acevedo, who is three years older and was a construction worker.

It was the first time they had lived together, and she recalls the excitement of
arriving in a new country to be with the man she loved, their future seemingly
full of promise.

She says the beatings began a few months later.

"He'd come home drunk, and he would hit me in the head or the face. He would
pull my hair. . . . He would slam me against the wall," she says, in Spanish.
"We'd be in the car, and if I turned to look outside, he'd hit me and say I
shouldn't look at anything. I had to look straight ahead."

She says Acevedo barred her from leaving the apartment without permission and
beat her for inviting friends to visit. He checked the caller ID device nightly
to interrogate her about her telephone conversations, she says, and refused for
years to let her find a job. By limiting her contact with others, he made it
difficult for her to learn English.

"In the beginning, I was ashamed. I would try to please him, hoping he would
change. I would do nice things for him," she says. "But the abuse kept getting
worse and worse."

Once, she threw a surprise birthday party for him. During the party, he dragged
her out of a bathroom by her hair and kicked her repeatedly until the guests
restrained him, she says.

Acevedo has not been convicted of a crime against Sanchez, and efforts to reach
him were unsuccessful. In April, Sanchez obtained a protective order barring him
from contacting her, and she says she doesn't know where he lives or works.

David Bernhard, the attorney who recently defended Acevedo on charges that he
violated that protective order, says he can't locate him. But he says Acevedo is
not an abusive husband.

Like many women in her situation, Sanchez for years hesitated to call police.
Growing up in Guatemala, her father beat her mother, and the police never did
anything. She assumed that police here wouldn't do anything either.

She also worried that involvement with police might jeopardize her immigration
status while she was seeking political asylum. She didn't become a legal
resident until 1997.

She says Acevedo played on her fears, threatening to get her deported, taunting
her, telling her that he could speak English, that he had a job and a home, and
that she had nothing.

Early on, Sanchez mustered the courage to walk away, going to live with
relatives in Chicago. But when she learned she was pregnant, she gave Acevedo
another chance. "Against the will of my family I returned, because I thought the
baby should be with a father," she says. "I thought things would change. I was
hoping things would get better."

She gave birth to a baby girl, and a year later, the couple had another
daughter. When Sanchez applied for residency, the couple married so he too could
get a green card. But the abuse never stopped for long, she says.

Eventually, against her husband's wishes, Sanchez sought more independence by
taking classes to become a hairdresser. She endured beatings after each class,
she says, then missed graduation because she was too ashamed to appear with her
face bruised.

Again and again, she tried to leave him.

"But when I got to the door, I would ask myself: Where am I going to go, with
two girls and not speaking the language? And then I would come back," she says.
"You convince yourself to stay for your children, for not having family here,
for fear. I was very afraid of him.

"I still am."

Fairfax police say their records indicate officers responded to the
Sanchez-Acevedo home five times in the past six years for domestic disputes.
Court records show police visited at least two other times during those years.

Sanchez says none of the officers spoke Spanish. Nor did they call a
Spanish-speaking officer or interpreter. She says she was not really able to
communicate with them--but her husband could. "Sometimes, I think I'd hear him
tell them I was crazy."

Police declined to release reports from the home visits but said they don't show
whether officers called for Spanish backup. A spokeswoman said officers often
won't bother with an interpreter if the couple speaks some English and they
believe they can figure out what happened.

Sanchez remembers the first time police arrested Acevedo, in September 1994. She
was sleeping and woke to searing pain, opening her eyes to see her husband,
drunk and hovering above her. She says he punched her in the face and dislocated
her jaw. She fled the apartment and ran to a nearby 7-Eleven to call police.

Acevedo hired an attorney and pleaded guilty to misdemeanor assault, court
records show. The judge ordered him to attend an anger management class, then
set aside the conviction after good behavior for a year.

That year, police visited the home at least twice. The first time, no one was
arrested. The second time, police again charged Acevedo with misdemeanor
assault. When the case went to trial, prosecutors dropped the charge.

It's unclear what happened in court or whether Sanchez or other witnesses showed
up. Witnesses in immigrant communities sometimes don't cooperate with
authorities because they consider family violence a private matter or because
they are in the country illegally. Sanchez says her husband frequently hit her
in front of neighbors or friends, but none wanted to speak to police.

The fights also occurred in front of their children.

In December 1997, Acevedo tried to take the girls away and Sanchez tore his
necklace and grabbed his sweater trying to stop him, she says. He called police,
and officers arrested her. A month later, Sanchez pleaded guilty to misdemeanor
assault. A judge agreed to dismiss the case if she stayed out of trouble for six
months.

But police arrested her again in June after the incident in which Sanchez says
she bit her husband in self-defense. He had been drinking, and the two were
arguing about one of the girls. She says he dragged her out of the child's room
and pinned her on the living room couch.

"He sat on me and started beating me with his elbows. He hit me so hard. . . .
He knocked the wind out of me," she says. "I thought I couldn't breathe anymore,
and then I bit his back."

Acevedo called 911. Police say the dispatcher heard someone in the background
trying to take the phone away from him. Three officers arrived and questioned
the couple and their two girls in English. One child said Acevedo started the
fight, the other said Sanchez did, police said.

The officers arrested Sanchez, noting the bite mark on Acevedo's shoulder and
bruises on his shins. Police said they saw no injuries on her.

"I tried to tell them what happened," she says, "and they laughed at me."

Misdemeanor trials in Virginia, unlike the District or Maryland, are not
recorded or transcribed, so it's impossible to know what happened at Sanchez's
trial. Court records indicate she pleaded guilty to misdemeanor assault and was
sentenced to six months' probation.

But Sanchez says that she did not plead guilty and that the court interpreter
told her the judge convicted her based on police testimony. She says the
interpreter also had her sign several forms without translating them, one of
which she later learned waived her right to an attorney.

Antonia Fuentes, 42, of Alexandria, a friend who accompanied Sanchez to the
trial, also says the interpreter never translated any forms.

The interpreter in Sanchez's trial, Carmen Kunkel, hasn't passed her
certification exam in three attempts, according to Virginia's judicial planning
department. But courts in Virginia and Maryland, unlike the District, are not
required to use certified interpreters.

Kunkel, a court interpreter for 13 years, said she doesn't remember the Sanchez
case. She declined to answer further questions.

In 1996, Congress passed a law requiring the "removal" of legal immigrants who
are convicted of domestic violence, stalking, child abuse or violating a
protective order. But Sanchez left court that day with no idea she could be
deported.

Judges in Virginia say they routinely accept guilty pleas from immigrants
without advising them that the pleas may result in deportation, though such
warnings are required in Maryland and other states. As a result, many immigrants
unwittingly put themselves in jeopardy. Sometimes they do so even after hiring
an attorney, because criminal defense attorneys often are unfamiliar with
immigration law.

Advocates for battered women say the 1996 law is a particular problem for
immigrant women. If a woman's residency status is tied to her husband's, or if
she doesn't want her husband deported, she may hesitate to call police.

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,
says 303 people, including six women, were deported under the law during the
last fiscal year, less than 0.5 percent of all criminal deportations that year.

Bergeron says the INS doesn't monitor the courts to find immigrants convicted of
domestic violence. It pursues only cases that are brought to its attention. In
Sanchez's case, it's unclear who reported her to the INS, and INS officials
won't say.

Sanchez goes before an immigration judge in May. Her attorney, Michelle Morales,
says her chances of avoiding deportation are slim, because the law allows judges
little discretion.

Sanchez has been hiding from her husband for the past few months. In January,
when she agreed to meet at a friend's apartment to tell her story, slight
bruises were visible on her throat from the injuries she says her husband
inflicted on Thanksgiving.

"I can never be calm or at peace anymore, because I'm always scared of him," she
says, checking to make sure her children are out of earshot. They are 9 and 10
now. "The girls are in school. They're accustomed to their lives here. . . .
It's just not fair for me to have to leave this way."

Sanchez also worries about her safety. "He can follow me to Guatemala and beat
me, because the laws there don't work."

But ask her about the laws here, and she shakes her head: "Instead of protecting
me, they let a monster go free."


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              129 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 21, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

Boosting the Count

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 387 words


IN AN EFFORT to encourage participation in the 2000 census, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service will instruct its agents to put off routine enforcement
actions this spring that might interfere with census activities. The move is
part of a broader government campaign to boost responses to the census, which
swings into high gear next month when questionnaires are mailed to households
across the country.

Residents will be asked to complete the forms and return them by April 1. After
that, an army of census workers will fan out and begin knocking on doors,
seeking to count those who didn't respond. The Census Bureau is working against
a history of declining participation, fueled in part by cynicism--census forms
are just more junk mail--and in part by fear that private information given to
census-takers will be shared with other government agencies. The nervousness is
understandable, and it's not surprising that immigrants are disproportionately
likely to be missed in the count: Long-form questionnaires, which go to about
one in six households, ask where respondents were born, whether they are
citizens and when they came to the United States. But in outlining the
guidelines for agents Monday, INS official Ken Elwood emphasized that the
immigration agency does not want and cannot legally request information from
individual census forms.

As the INS steps back, it won't stop working on cases involving national
security, wanted felons or public safety. The policy is similar to one used
during the 1990 census, but this time will be better coordinated with census
officials. It may seem odd that the two agencies need to coordinate a policy
that emphasizes the separation between them, but the INS is right to create a
climate that may make some residents less fearful of census-takers.

Census figures are used to allocate $ 185 billion a year in federal money, so
all local governments have a big stake in making sure that their populations are
fully counted. For Northern Virginia there is an added political spur: the
redistricting of state legislative districts that will be done before next
year's elections. The region has seen dramatic growth in its immigrant
population since the last census; those numbers should be adequately reflected
in Richmond in the next decade.



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              130 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                  February 23, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Cuba Won't Withdraw Official; U.S. Says Spy Suspect Could Lose Immunity, Face
Arrest

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 604 words


The United States and Cuba appeared on a diplomatic collision course yesterday
as Washington insisted that Havana withdraw a consular official accused of
spying and Havana refused to comply, saying the man was innocent and ready to
defend himself in a U.S. court.

State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said he believed the Cuban position
was unprecedented and a violation of international conventions.

If the consular official, Jose Imperatori, fails to leave by the deadline of
1:30 p.m. Saturday, Rubin warned, his diplomatic immunity will be lifted. "He
would [then] be subject to our laws, and if there were grounds for his arrest,
he would be arrested," Rubin said.

The United States last Saturday ordered the withdrawal of Imperatori, a vice
consul at the Cuban Interests Section here, charging that he was an intelligence
contact for Mariano Faget, a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
official in Miami. Faget, who immigrated to this country from Cuba as a child,
was arrested last Thursday and charged with spying for Cuba.

In a statement issued over the weekend, the Cuban Interests Section said it was
determined that Imperatori "remain in the United States to testify and prove
full falseness of that accusation no matter what the consequences might be." A
Cuban spokesman reiterated that position yesterday.

If his diplomatic immunity is lifted, Imperatori could be subpoenaed to testify
in the Faget case or in pending court actions involving Elian Gonzalez, the
6-year-old Cuban boy whose Miami relatives are defying an INS order to return
him to Cuba. U.S. officials said deportation proceedings also could be brought
against Imperatori as an illegal alien.

A lengthy editorial yesterday in Cuba's Communist Party newspaper, Granma,
questioned the "coincidence" of Faget's arrest just a few days before a federal
court hearing in the Gonzalez case.

Rubin said Cuba's allegation that the spy charges were a U.S. "smokescreen" to
disrupt the Gonzalez case were "utter nonsense."

In the Granma editorial, Cuba acknowledged that Imperatori and other Cuban
officials had numerous contacts with Faget both by telephone and in person in
New York and Miami. It said the head of the Interests Section, Fernando Remirez,
first met Faget at a gathering convened by New York businessman Peter Font.

Font has been identified in news reports as Faget's alleged intelligence conduit
to the Cuban government, but no charges have been brought against him.

The Granma editorial described Cuba's contacts with Font and Faget as normal
business. Font, it said, was interested in investing in Cuba. Faget, whose job
was to process applicants for political asylum, was a contact on immigration
issues who also was interested in investment in Cuba after his upcoming
retirement, according to the newspaper.

A U.S. official noted that U.S.-based Cuban diplomats traveling outside of
Washington and New York are required to inform the State Department of their
plans 72 hours before departure. The required form asks if any out-of-town
meetings with U.S. officials are planned, but at no time did Imperatori indicate
he was meeting with Faget, the official said.

Meanwhile, a hearing in a federal lawsuit brought against the INS and Attorney
General Janet Reno in the Elian Gonzalez case was postponed yesterday after the
judge was hospitalized for a possible stroke. Miami District Judge William M.
Hoeveler was replaced by K. Michael Moore, who said he would begin hearings
March 6 on a petition by the boy's Miami relatives to order Reno to consider
granting him political asylum.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              131 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    February 25, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Perdue Ends Program For Korean Immigrants; Brokers Charged Workers High Fees

Peter Pae , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 863 words



Perdue Farms Inc., the nation's third-largest poultry producer, has terminated a
program that brought hundreds of Korean immigrants to work in its processing
plants on the Eastern Shore.

The company said it made the decision after an internal investigation prompted
by a Washington Post article detailing how white-collar, middle-class Koreans,
desperate to immigrate to the United States, were paying as much as $ 30,000
each to work in chicken plants.

For more than 25 years, hundreds of Koreans a year have come to the United
States by paying immigration brokers who advertise the poultry jobs in Korean
newspapers as a shortcut to America. In return for working at the chicken
plants, the immigrants receive legal permanent U.S. residency for themselves and
their families under a federal program to fill unskilled jobs.

Even under the program, it can take years for a worker to enter the United
States, but the arrangement still sharply reduces the usual wait. Some Korean
immigrants coming to the chicken plants were required by brokers to sign a
pledge to work at the plant for one year and to make an additional $ 5,000
deposit that would be returned only after they completed the term.

Perdue officials said they had been unaware of the one-year agreements or the
fees paid by the workers until the Post article was published. As a result of
its internal investigation, the company said it made "personnel changes" in its
human resources department. A Perdue spokeswoman declined to be more specific,
citing company policy not to discuss personnel matters.

Because private brokers maintain the waiting lists for the program, it is
unclear how many Koreans will not be able to immigrate because of Perdue's
policy change.

The firm, which is based in Salisbury, Md., and whose Showell plant is the
single largest employer of Korean workers, has also begun posting signs in
Korean telling employees the "company does not have a one-year employment rule."

"We want your long-term employment, but we will abide by your decision," the
sign reads.

No law governs financial transactions between brokers and the workers, but U.S.
regulations forbid employers to require a worker to stay in a job for a fixed
time as a condition for obtaining a green card.

"We wanted to make sure there was no misunderstanding," said Tita Cherrier,
Perdue's spokesman.

Perdue officials said that they didn't find anything illegal about the
transactions but that they were troubled by the deposit system and the fees.
When Perdue purchased the Showell plant in 1995, it agreed to honor visa
applications for foreign workers made by the previous owners.

In a letter to the U.S. Embassy in Seoul, Perdue said that although it "will
continue to offer employment to any original applicants" who are in the pipeline
to arrive, it will not "under any circumstance" offer employment to any
individuals who are substituted for original applicants who took themselves off
the waiting list. Many of the Koreans who arrived recently are substitutes for
original applicants. The substitutes paid three to four times as much in fees,
or up to $ 30,000, to jump ahead of others on the waiting list, according to
current and former workers.

Perdue's Cherrier said there are a "couple of hundred approved applications in
the pipeline," though it was unclear how many of the applications involve
substitutions.

"Recently, certain concerns were raised about the program, specifically the fees
charged by individuals in Korea who serve as employment services for the
applicants," wrote Robert H. Heflin, Perdue's vice president for human
resources. "Following a thorough review . . . we would like to clarify our
position regarding the offers of employment."

The move angered dozens of Koreans, some of whom have been waiting since 1992 to
immigrate to the United States.

An official with Hyundai Emmigration Development Corp., an immigration service
agency in Seoul, said yesterday that at least three clients had their
applications withdrawn in the past week.

"They are furious," said Kim Kyu-Ho, a director of the agency. "These people
have been waiting since 1992. And now their hopes are gone."

In a written statement, Tai Young Lee, a Baltimore businessman whose company has
arranged many of the transactions, said Perdue's decision "will bring a great
deal of harm and damage to innocent individuals."

Perdue is "destroying the dreams and hopes of hundreds of Koreans and their
families who have been waiting for years to immigrate to America," Lee said,
noting that the decision will affect about 45 of his Korean clients.

Lee also confirmed that the deposits, which he called "performance bond
agreements," were being returned to Perdue workers. Without explanation, he said
his company "decided to adopt a different program."

"People who got their money back are pretty happy about it, but they don't know
what to do," said one worker, noting that some workers still wrongly fear that
if they left their jobs, their green card could be revoked or their future
citizenship jeopardized.

"We haven't seen any exodus" of workers, Cherrier said.


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              132 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      March 3, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

In Suburbs, Fighting a Global War Against TB; Immigration Fueling Number Of New
Cases in Montgomery

April Witt , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1510 words


The young immigrant from Africa had a job at a Burger King and a secret she was
desperate to keep: tuberculosis.

She moved, skipped doctor's appointments and refused medication until public
health sleuths tracked her down last month in Germantown at the Home of the
Whopper.

As her panicked suburban co-workers queued up to be tested for TB exposure, the
woman spent two weeks quarantined in an undisclosed hospital, taking her
medicine with a court-ordered guard at her door.

Increasingly, tuberculosis in Montgomery County and the nation wears an
immigrant's face.

All but three of the 78 people diagnosed with TB in Montgomery County in 1999
were immigrants or refugees, preliminary public health statistics show.

The disparity was only slightly less dramatic in Arlington, Alexandria and
Fairfax, where an average of 84 percent of 130 new TB cases last year were among
immigrants, according to Virginia's Division of TB Control.

Nationwide, immigrants accounted for 42 percent of all new TB cases in 1998, up
from 22 percent in 1986, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. The trend is a function of booming immigration at a time when the
number of new TB cases among people born in the United States is declining.

Half of the counties in the country reported no TB cases in 1998, and more than
a dozen states had fewer cases that year than either Montgomery or Fairfax
counties did last year.

Arriving from regions where tuberculosis is endemic--Latin America, Asia and
Africa--foreign-born TB patients are challenging public health workers to
eradicate the disease without stigmatizing sufferers.

"My greatest fear is that there will be this terrific xenophobic response to
anyone who is a quote-unquote refugee or immigrant," said Nancy G. Baruch, chief
of Maryland's Division of Tuberculosis Control, Refugee & Migrant Health. "All
that does is drive someone away from getting the help they need."

TB, spread through airborne bacteria, can seem arbitrary in selecting its
victims. Some people contract it with minimal contact, but in most cases it is
the result of prolonged exposure, and many people who are exposed to it never
develop the disease.

"It's much more difficult to catch than something like measles or chickenpox,"
said Nancy Binkin, associate director for international activities for the CDC's
Division of TB Elimination. "Obviously, people can get it with a shorter
exposure. . . . But it's usually associated with contact of a longer and more
intense duration than many other infectious diseases."

TB, known as "consumption" in past centuries, is marked by coughing, fever and
malaise. It remains a killer in much of the developing world. In Montgomery,
however, 99 percent of its victims are cured.

"There is always hysteria every time the public hears about a case of TB," said
Thomas Walsh, medical director of the TB clinic at the Dennis Avenue Health
Center in Silver Spring. "We try to reassure people TB is an extremely
slow-growing organism. It generally takes eight hours or more of face-to-face
exposure with someone who is active and contagious. In our data, only one out of
three cases we see is contagious to the general public."

Still, Montgomery County public health workers taking TB medication to the
foreign-born chauffeur of a wealthy Potomac family parked their county-marked
vehicle two blocks away for fear of what the neighbors might think.

Walsh recalls diagnosing a nanny with active TB one Christmas Eve, just as the
clinic was about to close. The doctor implored the nanny's employers, a
Rockville couple, not to eject her from their home while she was sick.

"The people went nuts," Walsh said. "I told them, 'The damage has been done. You
and your kids have to be tested. But everybody is going to be okay.' I don't
think I said, 'This is Christmas Eve--remember the story of Jesus and Mary
looking for a place to stay.' But pretty close.

"They put her out anyway."


Worldwide, almost 2 billion people, or one-third of the world's population, are
infected with TB. An estimated one in 10 of them will develop the disease at
some point in their lives, the CDC says.

U.S. immigration officials are stepping up efforts to detect TB among
immigrants, installing X-ray machines in some centers where illegal immigrants
are detained. But the very nature of TB--the bacteria that causes it can lie
dormant in the body for decades--makes it impossible to detect all people who
will develop active cases.

The speed and ease with which business travelers and tourists, as well as
immigrants legal and illegal, cross the globe today make it impossible to screen
everyone with the potential to spread TB.

Doctors at the CDC, along with a host of other public health experts, say the
key to limiting new TB infections in the United States is helping to eradicate
the disease overseas while aggressively detecting and treating it here.

Rep. Constance A. Morella (R-Md.) will co-sponsor legislation with Rep. Sherrod
Brown (D-Ohio) advocating that the United States spend $ 100 million in 2001 to
combat TB worldwide, up from $ 35 million.

Fitzhugh Mullan, a pediatrician at the Upper Cardozo Community Health Center in
Northwest Washington, is the grandson of a public health doctor who worked at
Ellis Island early in this century. His grandfather screened immigrants for
contagious diseases or disabling conditions that made them candidates to be
shipped home.

"The question of exclusion and stopping disease at our borders and our shores
seems much less plausible today than it was at the turn of the century," Mullan
said.

"The facility with which people move these days is so much different today. The
ability for disease to move around the world, whether it's tuberculosis, or HIV,
or Ebola fever for that matter, is staggering. The tuberculosis in Latin America
is a plausible problem in this country a week or a day later. So the approach
must be global infection control.

"We must not think we can throw up some medical Maginot line and live safely
behind it."


In Silver Spring, the TB clinic at the Dennis Avenue Health Center is a new
model for controlling TB. Examining rooms are engineered so air can't slip into
the hallways. Instead, air is vented outside, where sunlight kills TB bacteria.

Clinic workers, who together speak more than a dozen languages, offer free TB
screening and treatment to anyone who lives or works in Montgomery County.

That's crucial, because TB medications typically cost $ 600 a month, and most
clients work two or more low-paying jobs to support their families, said clinic
nurse-administrator Yvonne Richards.

With county and state funds, the clinic offers support to some poor clients
forced to stop working until they are not contagious.

The number of TB cases reported in Montgomery peaked at 112 in 1993 and has
fluctuated in recent years: 51 in 1996, 76 in 1997, 73 in 1998, 78 last year.
(Similar fluctuation occurred in Fairfax, where the number of people diagnosed
with TB peaked in 1996 at 100, dropped to 72 in 1997 and 1998, then rose last
year to 77.)

To Walsh, the fact that only three out of the 78 victims in Montgomery County
were U.S.-born represents a partial success story. "That tells me we're
diagnosing and treating cases quickly enough that no secondary cases are arising
in the U.S.-born population," he said. "We're certainly not seeing spread."

It's too early to tell if anyone who worked at the Germantown Burger King with
the reluctant TB patient from Africa was infected by her, Walsh said.

On Monday, she was released from quarantine. Public health workers visit her
daily to watch her take the pills that should cure her and protect those who
live and work around her.

"We're keeping our fingers crossed," Walsh said.



Cases in Maryland


In Maryland, the number of new cases of tuberculosis diagnosed each year has
declined, a trend driven largely by a drop in the number of U.S.-born patients.
By contrast, the number of foreign-born residents diagnosed with TB has
increased. Last year, for the first time ever, half the people diagnosed with TB
were foreign-born, and in some counties, such as Montgomery, almost all TB cases
were among immigrants and refugees.


Tuberculosis cases in Maryland


All patients


1992: 442

1999: 294


Foreign-born


1992: 128

19991: 53


The proportion of TB cases among foreign-born persons nationwide has steadily
increased since 1986.



Year/ Total new TB cases/ Foreign-born/ Foreign-born as percent of total


1986/ 22,768/ 4,925/ 22%

1987/ 22,617/ 5,025/ 22

1988/ 18,361/ 4,868/ 22

1989/ 23,495/ 5,411/ 23

1990/ 25,701/ 6,262/ 25

1991/ 26,283/ 6,982/ 27

1992/ 26,673/ 7,270/ 27

1993/ 25,287/ 7,354/ 30

1994/ 24,361/ 7,627/ 32

1995/ 22,860/ 7,930/ 35

1996/ 21,337/ 7,704/ 37

1997/ 19,851/ 7,702/ 39

1998/ 18,361/ 7,591/ 42


SOURCES: Maryland Division of TB Control, Refugee & Migrant Health; Centers for
Disease Control



LOAD-DATE: March 03, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, TWP

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              133 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      March 6, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 65 words


In an article yesterday about the U.S. deportation of men and women adopted as
children from abroad, captions for two photographs of Joao Herbert were
incorrect. He is being detained at the Medina County, Ohio, jail by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, which wants him sent back to his native
Brazil. An immigration judge has said he will decide Herbert's fate on Friday.


LOAD-DATE: March 06, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              134 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 8, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Khannouchi Too Late, INS Says

Athelia Knight , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D02

LENGTH: 364 words



The world's fastest marathoner will not be a U.S. citizen in time to compete in
the Sydney Olympics, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
said yesterday.

World marathon record-holder Khalid Khannouchi of Morocco cannot even apply for
U.S. citizenship before the 2000 Olympic Games in September, said Russ Bergeron,
INS director of media relations. He said the earliest Khannouchi could become a
citizen likely would be sometime in 2002.

Khannouchi, who came to New York from Morocco in 1993, has been trying to obtain
U.S. citizenship since about three months after his marriage to a naturalized
U.S. citizen in 1996.

Khannouchi's application for immigrant status was approved on July 28, 1998,
which is when he became a permanent resident alien, Bergeron said. He said that
under immigration law, an applicant must wait three years after becoming a
permanent resident alien before applying for U.S. citizenship. After that, there
is usually an additional 15 months before becoming a citizen.

The INS agent handling Khannouchi's case was convicted of bribery and conspiracy
in November. However, Bergeron said the process was not delayed, as had been
reported in several news outlets, including The Washington Post.

"The implication that there has been some unnecessary bureaucratic delay is
wrong," Bergeron said. "And even if there had been, [Khannouchi] still would not
be able to gain citizenship in time for the Olympics.. . .In the rush to win
Olympic gold, everyone wants to ignore the rules in order to grant Khannouchi
citizenship."

Two U.S. lawmakers, Rep. Sue W. Kelly (R-N.Y.) and Sen. Charles Schumer
(D-N.Y.), have supported Khannouchi's bid for citizenship, hoping to expedite
the process so he could run in the Olympics. With Khannouchi, the U.S. marathon
team would vault from distant underdog to one of the favorites.

Yesterday, Schumer's press secretary, Cathie Levine, said, "As much as we would
like to see Khalid Khannouchi run in the Olympics, he should be treated like
every other potential citizen. We have been looking at every legal avenue to
help Khalid gain citizenship and will continue to do so."


LOAD-DATE: March 08, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              135 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 12, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Immigrants Are Good for the Neighborhood

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. B08; CLOSE TO HOME

LENGTH: 557 words


A wag once quipped, when commenting on the District's exotic eating
establishments, "Lose a country, gain a restaurant." Although culinary
specialties may be the most visible signs of what immigrants have brought to the
region, a study by the Alexis de Tocqueville Institution shows that the biggest
benefit they bring is in the form of increased property values.

Most cities have a neighborhood that has been revitalized by immigrants. This is
not a new phenomenon. Long before the Vietnamese moved to Bailey's Crossroads,
and the Ethiopians and Central Americans came to Adams-Morgan, New York had
Little Italy and the District had Chinatown.

Foreign-born Americans, both past and present, have renovated communities that
had fallen into disrepair. And, as this study indicates, when more immigrants
come to a neighborhood, property values--a useful index of a community's
health--tend to go up. Immigrants also often generate jobs, improve schools and
even contribute to reduced crime.

The study looks at areas with big increases in property values; areas with large
declines or smallest relative gains in property values; areas with a sharp
influx of immigrants; and areas with an outflow of immigrants or a
smaller-than-average increase of immigrants. This was done over 18 years in
geographically based units that have an average population of about 3,000.

In the District, the 10 census tracts with the lowest number of foreign-born
persons showed a 7.6 percent decrease in property values from 1980 to 1998.
During the same period, the average increase in property values District-wide
was 2.36 percent.

In the 10 census tracts with the highest number of immigrants, property values
increased 13.77 percent, more than five times the D.C. average. The greatest
positive change came in Adams-Morgan and Mount Pleasant.

The results in Northern Virginia and suburban Maryland showed a similar
relationship, though the trend appears strongest in the District. Suburban
Maryland suffered a steep decline in property values in areas where the
immigrant population decreased most significantly. In Northern Virginia, the 10
tracts with the highest number of immigrants experienced a 37.5 percent increase
in overall property values.

Similarly, in the 10 Virginia neighborhoods with the largest rise in property
values--an average of 75 percent--the percentage of foreign-born increased by 60
percent.

How do newcomers to America afford housing and increase property values?

Most immigrants start off as tenants but work toward home ownership. According
to real estate agents, immigrant renters appear to have a low default rate. When
they do finally achieve their goal of ownership, they tend to turn rental
properties into owner-occupied housing, increasing neighborhood stability.

A drive through Springfield or walk through Mount Pleasant shows the economic
vitality immigrants have imparted to these areas. Restaurants, markets, video
stores and small businesses are a testament to community revitalization. The
renewal has gone far beyond the commercial realm, however, and has resulted in
an economic improvement that benefits our entire area.

--Tom Davis

a Republican representative from Virginia, chairs the subcommittee on the
District of the House Government Reform Committee.




LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, barrie maguire

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              136 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 16, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Riley Endorses Two-Way Bilingual Education

Kenneth J. Cooper , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1038 words


Education Secretary Richard W. Riley yesterday endorsed a novel approach to
bilingual education that simultaneously teaches English to immigrants and a
foreign language to their English-speaking classmates.

The Clinton administration has strongly backed bilingual education in general,
but Riley's comments in a major address on the education of Hispanics were the
first time he has singled out a particular method of teaching students whose
first language is not English. Bilingual education has grown increasingly
controversial in some portions of the country because immigrant students
sometimes spend years speaking mostly their native language in special classes.

In the "dual language" classes that Riley endorsed, students are taught about
half in their native tongue and half in another language, with the goal of
making them proficient in both. The classes are typically an even mix of
students who speak English as their first language and students who have another
mother tongue. The method is sometimes also called "two-way bilingual" or "dual
immersion."

Riley said the nation's economic competitiveness would be enhanced if
dual-language instruction expands and more students learn to speak both English
and another language.

"I think that it is high time we begin to treat language skills as the asset
they are, particularly in this global economy," he said at Bell Multicultural
High School in Northwest D.C. "Anything that encourages a person to know more
than one language is positive--and should be treated as a positive."

The dual-language method was first used in a public school in 1963 and has
spread from the Miami suburb of Coral Gables to 261 schools in 23 states and the
District, according to the Center for Applied Linguistics. Most are elementary
schools that teach in Spanish and English, and some receive federal funding.
Nine are in the Washington metropolitan area.

Riley called on the nation to nearly quadruple the number of dual-language
schools to 1,000 within five years. The number has already been rising rapidly,
increasing by about two-thirds since 1992, according to the linguistics center.

"It has become much more popular in the last 10 years," especially among
English-speaking parents interested in their children learning a foreign
language, said Heidi Ramirez, a bilingual education specialist at the Education
Department.

Nancy Rhodes, a foreign language specialist at the linguistics center, said
long-term studies have shown the method to be perhaps the most effective of
various bilingual techniques.

"The two-way model is something we're seeing more and more of because they're
getting better results" as immigrants develop English skills as well as
"maintain and develop literacy in their native language," Rhodes said.

Delia Pompa, executive director of the National Association for Bilingual
Education, called Riley's endorsement "wonderful" and suggested that it might
ease the controversy over bilingual education. "I do hope his comments go a long
way toward bringing people together on this issue," she said.

Tim Schultz, a spokesman for U.S. English, which has opposed other bilingual
methods, said the group supports the technique that Riley favors. "We agree that
dual-immersion programs are good," he said. "We just want kids to learn
English."

But Schultz said the method is not a complete solution because some schools in
heavily Hispanic areas of Los Angeles and Albuquerque, for instance, do not
enroll enough English-speaking students to form dual-language classes.

According to the Education Department, about 75 percent of the 3 million
students in the nation with limited proficiency in English are Hispanics, the
fastest-growing ethnic group in the country. Riley said about 20 percent of
teachers have training in bilingual education methods, but slightly more than
half teach students whose proficiency in English is limited. President Clinton
has requested an increase of $ 54 million, or 13 percent, in federal spending
for bilingual and immigrant education programs.


Language Osmosis

Two-way bilingual immersion programs put native English speakers and speakers of
another language in the same classroom.

Two-way bilingual immersion programs

California 83

New York 50

Illinois 22

Texas 22

Arizona 14

Massachusetts 14

Oregon 10

Florida 9

Virginia 6

Colorado 5

New Mexico 4

Connecticut 3

Maine 2

Maryland 2

Michigan 2

New Jersey 2

North Carolina 2

Oklahoma 2

Pennsylvania 2

Alaska 1

D.C.  1

Kansas 1

Minnesota 1

Wisconsin 1

Total 261

Schools

Spanish/English 240

Chinese/English 6

French/English 4

Korean/English 4

Japanese/English 2

Navajo/English 2

Arabic/English 1

Portuguese/English 1

Russian/English 1

SOURCE: Center for Applied Linguistics



LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              137 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 16, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

County Gets Set for Census; Officials Emphasize Tally of Minorities, Immigrants,
Poor

Dan Eggen , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA - FAIRFAX; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 797 words


More than 300,000 census forms will begin arriving in Fairfax County households
this week as part of the federal government's $ 6.8 billion push to count all
U.S. residents.

Officials expect the county's population will end up at just under 1 million in
the 2000 Census, reflecting the ongoing influx of thousands of new residents
seeking jobs in technology firms and other booming businesses.

Volunteers and census officials are making a special effort to reach residents
who are less likely to participate in government tallies: racial minorities,
immigrants and the poor.

Organizers are distributing thousands of fliers in seven foreign languages at
churches, mosques, temples, groceries and other locations, urging residents to
stand up and be counted. Volunteers are also handing out pencils, refrigerator
magnets and other trinkets aimed at boosting participation.

Mohamed Majid, director of the All Dulles Area Muslim Society center, said many
recent arrivals fear that census data will be used by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service or other agencies. Federal officials insist that all
census information will remain confidential.

"Some immigrants have very little trust of government, because they come from
countries where they can't be trusted very much," Majid said. "In those
countries, a census might be used against them. . . . I try to tell them the
positive side, how they will benefit in terms of schools, police, firefighters
and other services in their neighborhoods."

Carol Hawn, chairman of the 30-member Fairfax Complete Count Committee, said
volunteers are focusing particularly on the Route 1 corridor and the Baileys
Crossroads neighborhood, both areas with high minority and foreign-born
populations.

The seven languages chosen for fliers illustrate the wave of diverse residents
who have flocked to Fairfax in the last decade: Spanish, Vietnamese, Chinese,
Korean, Tagalog, Farsi and Urdu. The census forms are available in all but the
latter two languages.

"It's very important that we reach our non-English-speaking residents," said
Hawn, a veteran volunteer from Sully. "Minorities are often undercounted in the
census, so we want to make a special effort to reach out to them."

Two forms will be mailed to households beginning this week: The short form
includes just seven questions per individual, and will be received by five of
every six households.

A longer form, sent to the remaining families, includes 52 questions per person
and will be used to estimate more detailed demographic trends.

In 1990, Fairfax had the highest response rate in Northern Virginia, officials
said, when 76 percent of households returned their forms by mail. That tally
found nearly 819,000 residents, with an estimated 15,000 missed.

Hawn and others said rapid growth in overall population, and especially within
immigrant communities, could mean a lower response rate this time. Officials
expect the county's population to reach 966,000, an increase of about 18 percent
since 1990.

"We were formed to get the word out, to let people know that it's easy and safe,
meaning it's confidential," Hawn said of her committee. "We're at the point now
where we want to get the word out wherever we can."

Nationwide, Census Bureau officials estimate that only 61 percent of Americans
will return their forms, the lowest response rate ever. It was 63 percent in
1990, 75 percent in 1980 and 78 percent in 1970.

The bureau will send enumerators to each household to which a form was mailed to
get information; if people cannot be found to be interviewed after six tries,
the enumerators will interview neighbors.

Even so, people will be missed. The net undercount of Americans in 1990
(subtracting people counted twice from those not counted) was 4.7 million. For
the first time, census officials say, the 1990 count was less accurate than the
one before.

To fill in the missing people, the Census Bureau intends to take a statistical
sample of 300,000 households.

The Supreme Court ruled last year that sampling data cannot be used to divide up
congressional seats among states, but can be used to redistrict within states
and to allocate federal funds. The Clinton administration says it will use it
for those purposes, but Republicans have threatened lawsuits over the
redistricting issue.

Census data is used to redistrict legislative bodies from state legislatures to
local school boards, to allocate $ 185 billion a year in federal funds, and to
help businesses and governments decide where to locate roads, stores, fire
stations and the like. The new census will change state totals in the Electoral
College for the 2004 and 2008 presidential elections.


Staff writer D'Vera Cohn contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              138 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 16, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Areas Getting Set for Census; Arlington County, Alexandria Reach Out to
Immigrants

Emily Wax , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 1021 words


From school lessons using comic books and maps to posters at malls using Spanish
and Arabic, the warning across Arlington County and Alexandria is clear: Fill
out the 2000 Census forms or risk losing millions of dollars in funding for
parks, housing and education.

During the previous census 10 years ago, about 10,000 residents were uncounted
in Arlington, while Alexandria missed about 3,000. Neighborhoods with the lowest
response rates were often those populated by recent immigrants, where many
worried that giving private information to the government could hurt their jobs
and immigration status.

This year, officials are working to tell everyone from youths to elders that the
census cannot be used against anyone. It is used instead to collect information
and obtain funding, in many cases for more English as a second language classes
and more low-income housing and transportation.

"When I first came, I didn't fill out the census," said Patricia Yurrita, who
emigrated from Guatemala in 1982 and works on Arlington County's Census 2000
Complete Count Committee. "When you have many people living in one apartment,
you don't want them to push you out onto the street, so you worry about what you
say."

After going to a meeting about the census and how it could help the Hispanic
community, Yurrita decided to volunteer and help explain its value to her
community. She is running a help center at Henry Elementary School from 9 a.m.
to noon March 25, one of 10 sessions being held in the area to encourage parents
to fill out census forms.

"I'll tell people, 'You know how hard it is to find good transportation to
work?' " Yurrita said. "I'll tell them that this won't get them in any trouble,
but it may be able to help the bus system."

Arlington County and the City of Alexandria have budgets of $ 20,000 each for
getting the word out about the census. Arlington schools have developed a
curriculum for high school students who take ESL classes. The curriculum
combines information about the census while teaching skills used during
Virginia's new Standard of Learning tests.

Using reading, math and social studies skills that would be used on the
standardized tests, teachers instruct students to discuss the difference between
a family and a household. They make maps and compare statistical data, discuss
the importance of the census and design an advertisement for it.

"Ten years ago, we didn't do as much and didn't do it as systematically," said
Emma Violand-Sanchez, supervisor of English for speakers of other languages in
Arlington public schools. "Immediately, I realized how important this was for an
ESL family. It's important that they know this information is confidential and
how important this form is."

She knows that many Spanish-speaking families might not get around to reading
every piece of mail written in English. But if the students know about the
census, they will make sure their parents fill it out, she says. About 23
percent of Arlington's 18,723 students are enrolled in ESL or similar programs.

For younger students, Arlington and Alexandria schools are using a comic book
designed to encourage parents to fill out the form. Arlington County designed
the comic book.

The first frame has a picture of a boy holding a soccer ball. His father is
tossing a form in the trash.

A bubble above the son's head reads: "Wait, Dad! Don't you want to be counted?"

"Counted? Counted for what?" his father asks.

"At school they told us how important it was," the son says. "Unless everyone
fills out the census form they won't know how many schools to build."

Adds the boy's sister, "Or where to put playgrounds, fire stations, all sorts of
things."

After some more prodding, the father fills out the form and proclaims how easy
it was.

At Barrett Elementary School in Arlington, teacher Richard Godwin used the comic
book with his fourth-grade class. Then they talked about how the census would
benefit them.

"It was as basic as there could be--more money to buy computers," Godwin said.
"I think using the book gave children the ability to explain to their parents
how important the census is."

Virginia could lose out on $ 176.7 million in funds for poverty-based and other
programs based on an estimated undercount of 1.75 percent, according to the
study done by PricewaterhouseCoopers for the Democratic appointees to the Census
Monitoring Board. The money would go to communities based on size. The study
also says that communities with larger minority populations could be
undercounted by as much as 3 percent.

Arlington County, where 39 percent of students receive free or reduced-cost
lunches, could lose as much as $ 13 million, the study said. There was no
estimate for Alexandria, but local officials said they estimate that the loss
would be in the millions.

"This money is really important for a city like Alexandria," said Jim Akin,
director of Alexandria's educational programs and accountability and a member of
the census committee. "We don't all live in Old Town. The wealth is very
polarized here."

In Alexandria, about 45 percent of students receive free and reduced-cost
lunches.

Alexandria officials say funding for ESL classes is essential because the school
population is 25 percent Hispanic, and students speak more than 53 languages.
Officials have held special census sessions at malls and are putting up posters.

"We are sending out 35,000 postcards to those Zip codes that were poor
respondents last year," said Ralph Rosenbaum, city demographer and a member of
the city's Complete Count Commission. "The money you lose is compounded over 10
years. That's a lot of money."


CENSUS MEETINGS IN ARLINGTON

Arlington County is holding sessions on the census in English and Spanish at
these schools:

Glen Carlyn: 7 to 9 p.m. Wednesday

Henry: 9 a.m. to noon March 25; 5 to 8:30 p.m. March 30

Oakridge: 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. March 27

Randolph: 7 to 9 p.m. March 29

Key: 5 to 8 p.m. March 30 and 31; 9 a.m. to noon April 1

Barrett: 7 to 9 p.m. March 30

Claremont: 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. March 31


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              139 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 21, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

INS Faulted In Review Of 'Railway Killer' Case; Probe Blames Weak Fingerprint
Training

David A. Vise , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A23; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 730 words


Serious failures by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to train
employees on its automated fingerprint system, as well as errors by individuals,
permitted the "Railway Killer" to be released by a border agent last year, a
decision that had deadly consequences, the Justice Department's inspector
general said yesterday.

Although he was on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted List and was sought by local
authorities for a spree of murders, Rafael Resendez-Ramirez was released by an
INS border agent in June 1999 after he was caught attempting to enter the United
States illegally from Mexico. Within days, Resendez-Ramirez, also known as Angel
Maturino Resendiz, allegedly sneaked back into the United States and killed four
people in two weeks before surrendering to authorities on July 13.

The IG said that despite prior reports on problems with training, many INS
employees still don't know how to use the fingerprint system, known by the
acronym IDENT. When Resendez-Ramirez was released, the border agent who let him
go didn't realize he was a dangerous killer, the IG report said, in part because
the INS fingerprint and FBI criminal database systems are not linked.

"We don't fault the Border Patrol agent for releasing Resendez, given their
operating instructions and the information available to them at the time,"
acting Inspector General Robert L. Ashbaugh said yesterday. "We certainly do
fault INS, however, in particular, for its failure to train its employees on how
to effectively use IDENT's capabilities."

In an official statement last night, the INS said it intends to develop an
action plan to improve training.

Resendez-Ramirez had been apprehended by the Border Patrol in Texas and New
Mexico seven times in 1998 and had been "voluntarily returned" to Mexico each
time. In early 1999, Texas police sought him in connection with a murder in
Houston. As part of their search, local and state police contacted INS
investigators, but none of them placed a "lookout" for Resendez-Ramirez on the
fingerprint system.

Even though the automated fingerprint system can be used by the INS to identify
criminal aliens, no one told local police about the system or informed them that
it could be checked to determine when Resendez-Ramirez had been previously
apprehended while trying to enter the United States. Local and state police said
that information would have provided leads in their search.

In addition, INS employees failed to act on a suggestion made in early 1999 to
send an electronic wanted poster for Resendez-Ramirez to Border Patrol stations.
As a result, when Resendez-Ramirez was stopped on June 1, 1999, while attempting
to cross the border into New Mexico illegally, nothing alerted the border agent
that he was dealing with someone who had an extensive criminal record.

Instead, the border agent followed standard policy and returned him to Mexico.

"The failings by the INS employees who did not place a lookout for Resendez in
IDENT were partly caused by, and indicative of, larger failings in the INS's
design and implementation" of the fingerprint system, Ashbaugh said. For
example, the system was designed on a "day-forward" basis, meaning that it is
less useful since it doesn't contain historical data about convictions and
deportations.

INS said while it agreed that IDENT would be more effective if it contained
earlier information, that would have proven too costly.

Ashbaugh said the killings illustrate the urgent need for the FBI and the INS to
integrate their fingerprint and criminal database systems. But federal officials
say that would take millions of dollars and years to implement.

This is not the first time the INS fingerprint system had been scrutinized by
the IG. In 1998, the IG said IDENT had numerous problems, including a weak
training program. But the INS said then that its training was adequate and
officials were learning the system.

"Contrary to the INS's claims, however, during the Resendez review we found a
widespread lack of knowledge throughout the INS about IDENT and its operations,"
Ashbaugh said.

The IG made 25 recommendations, including integrating IDENT with the FBI's
criminal database swiftly. "While some of these measures may be expensive, we
believe they are critical steps that could help prevent tragedies similar to the
Resendez case," Ashbaugh said.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              140 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    March 22, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Judge Upholds INS Decision on Elian; Great-Uncle's Lawsuit Over Asylum Bid Is
Dismissed; Miami Lawyers Vow Appeal

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1003 words


A federal judge in Miami yesterday dismissed a lawsuit filed by the great-uncle
of Elian Gonzalez against the Justice Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, saying he found no reason to reverse an INS decision to
send the 6-year-old shipwreck survivor back to his father in Cuba.

Judge K. Michael Moore rejected great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez's argument that the
INS was obliged to consider the political asylum petitions he filed on the
child's behalf, over the objections of the child's father. As the government
official ultimately responsible for the INS, Moore ruled, Attorney General Janet
Reno had acted within her legal discretion in refusing such consideration.

"A judicial review of the exercise of that discretion . . . has found no abuse
that would warrant a contrary conclusion," Moore wrote in a 50-page decision.

The ruling appeared to move Elian a step closer to returning to Cuba--and Reno
said the government would proceed in a "fair, orderly and prompt way" to "ensure
this child is reunited with his father"--but there was little reason to believe
it would happen any time soon.

The Miami attorneys for Lazaro Gonzalez said they would appeal Moore's ruling to
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta. Speaking before a small crowd
at the federal courthouse in Miami, attorney Spencer Eig said, "Elian has not
had his day in court. We have some hope that with an appeal . . . he just may."

Justice officials maintain that the government has the power to implement the
INS return order at any time, but they said yesterday that no precipitous action
would be taken. They acknowledged that the appeals process could take months,
eventually reaching the Supreme Court.

In Havana, the Cuban government said it was still analyzing "the apparently
positive news . . . without underestimating the obstacles and difficulties we
still need to overcome." Gregory B. Craig, the Washington lawyer representing
Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, requested a meeting with Reno to discuss
the case.

Members of Congress who have introduced legislation to make Elian a U.S.
citizen, thus removing him from INS control, said yesterday that they would
renew their efforts to bring the measures to a vote. But in the face of
widespread opposition to such a move, Republican leaders indicated that they
would keep the bills on the back burner until the appeals process is exhausted.

The two presidential candidates, who are competing for Florida's 25 electoral
votes, warned the Justice Department against immediate action in the case and
said that Moore's decision seemed to preclude court consideration of the merits
of returning Elian to Cuba. "We still need a full and fair court hearing based
on due process . . . according to the facts available about what is in the best
interests of the child," said Vice President Gore.

Texas Gov. George W. Bush said the case should be decided "by a Florida family
court . . . not by a Clinton-Gore Justice Department whose record of putting
politics ahead of the law does not inspire confidence."

The Justice Department has said the state court has no jurisdiction over the
case.

Seeking to put the best face on the day, the Miami lawyers noted that they had
won two out of three points the Justice Department had contested in their
federal suit. In his ruling, Moore affirmed the court's right to review INS
decision-making and agreed that Lazaro Gonzalez had standing to ask for such a
review. But on the actual merits of the case--whether Reno and the INS had acted
improperly in refusing even to consider asylum petitions filed by anyone other
than Elian's father--Moore came down firmly on the government's side.

Elian was found floating in the Atlantic on Thanksgiving Day, after a shipwreck
in which his mother and others fleeing Cuba drowned. The INS temporarily placed
him in the care of his great-uncle, but within days his Cuban father, who said
he had not been consulted on the departure by his former wife, asked that he be
returned. After interviewing the father twice in Cuba, the INS said it saw no
reason to deny his parental rights. On Jan. 5, citing both U.S. and
international law, it ordered his return.

Lazaro Gonzalez, backed by many in South Florida's Cuban American community,
insisted that Elian would be better off in Florida than in communist Cuba and
asked that the boy be granted political asylum. The INS never ruled on the
merits of the asylum petitions, saying that only Elian's father had the right to
speak for him in immigration matters. In his lawsuit filed Jan. 19, Lazaro
Gonzalez argued that the INS had violated Elian's constitutional rights to due
process, as well as laws giving "any alien" the right to petition for asylum.

Moore's decision said that Elian has no constitutional rights because he was
never officially admitted to this country. And in any case, the judge said,
while applicable law permits any alien to apply for asylum, " 'any alien' was
evidently not intended by Congress literally to include all aliens." In such
decisions, particularly concerning a child of such a young age, Moore said the
Administrative Procedures Act and legal precedent give the attorney general and
agencies under her broad discretion.

"In the absence of congressional intent indicating otherwise, courts hold agency
findings and decisions unlawful only if they are 'arbitrary, capricious, an
abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law,' " Moore wrote.

In dismissing the case, Moore said that Lazaro Gonzalez's "well-intentioned
litigation has the capacity to bring about unintended harm." Given "the reality
that each passing day is another day lost between Juan Gonzalez and his son, the
Court can only hope that those on each side of this litigation place the
interests of Elian Gonzalez above all others."


Staff writers Eric Pianin, Helen Dewar and David A. Vise and special
correspondent Catharine Skipp in Miami contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              141 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 31, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

INSTALL NOW?

SECTION: FAST FORWARD; Pg. E14

LENGTH: 789 words


GENERATIONS FAMILY TREE

MILLENNIUM COLLECTION, Sierra Home

What: Genealogy toolkit. Details: Sierra clearly sees a market in the more than
100 million Americans estimated to be related to immigrants who passed through
Ellis Island; the box shouts "Exclusive Ellis Island CD-ROM" and "Ellis Island
Records, 1892-1954." But don't count on finding your ancestors unless they
became celebrities: The "records" are pages from ship-passenger lists that
include people, such as Irving Berlin and Bob Hope, who became famous later in
life. The Ellis Island history CD has a few interesting facts, but they're not
going to lead you to your ancestor anytime soon, and the included one-hour
"documentary video" manages to make the tearful, joyful history of the immigrant
experience sound boring (although the book on researching naturalization records
is terrific). A CD with a list of passenger vessels arriving at New York from
1820 to 1850 isn't as helpful as it seems, since Ellis Island opened well after
then and this information lacks passenger names. The Millennium package also
suffers from sloppy mistakes: Its three "1800 Census" CDs, which only cover New
York, Charleston and Philadelphia, are mislabeled, and the CD advertised as
listing U.S. marriage records from 1560 to 1900 actually only appears to cover
marriages "early to 1850." And couples' names are displayed by the county where
they were married, but not the state. Don't bother with Millennium; in a few
months, Sierra plans to ship Generations Grande Suite 8.0, with enhanced
family-tree-making functions to help you organize your data--the most useful
part of genealogy software. Bottom line: They shouldn't have let this in.

-- Sarah Mark

Win 95-98; $ 70


INTERNET EXPLORER 5 MACINTOSH

EDITION, Microsoft

What: Web browser. Details: IE 5 makes a visual splash with a cool, crafty,
iMac-inspired interface: You can select one of nine colors (although not basic
Mac gray), select from a spread of 16 toolbar buttons or collapse the entire
toolbar to a sliver of small buttons to maximize your Web view. You might need
the extra room; in an effort to compensate for the tiny text in some
Windows-designed sites, Microsoft changed IE's settings in a way that makes type
look too big on many other sites. Less noticeably, but equally important, IE 5
catches up to its year-old Windows counterpart by squashing the JavaScript bugs
that made its predecessor unusable on many sites and offering keyboard-only
navigation within Web pages. It surpasses Windows IE with two convenient
additions, the Auction Manager and the Scrapbook. The first tracks ongoing
auctions at multiple sites in one window; the second lets you collect copies of
Web pages (say, receipts from online stores) in an onscreen drawer. The built-in
search functions have also been souped up, with shortcuts to locate people or
businesses, request maps or redo previous searches--but you can't switch the
default search engine from Microsoft's MSN. That's the only self-back-scratching
I could find here; otherwise, IE 5 is an upstanding Mac citizen, with fine
support for such Apple standards as text drag-and-drop and the flexible
open/save dialog boxes introduced in Mac OS 8.5. Bottom line: I'd rather use
this than the Windows version. Is that what Microsoft wanted?

-- Rob Pegoraro

Mac, free at http://www.microsoft.com/mac


WINDOW WASHER 3.0,

Webroot Software

What: Data-laundering utility. Details: Suspect your bosses are being a bit too
nosy? A free-trial download of Window Washer might be in order (after 30 days,
you need to pay $ 30 to keep using it). With it, your computer at 6 p.m. can
look exactly as it did at 8 a.m., even if you spent the 10 hours in between
hocking office supplies on eBay and arguing in the alt.tv.buffy-v-slayer
newsgroup. It does this by systematically blanking Windows' short-term
memory--menus, such as the recent-documents list and the find-files menu, that
track recent activity, Web browser caches and history files, Internet cookie
files and your recycle bin. You can manually rub out this data or set the
program to eliminate evidence on a regular schedule. A special "bleaching"
option repeatedly overwrites deleted files to cover your tracks further;
optional add-ons cover such popular applications as America Online and Microsoft
Office. In tests, this program did everything it claimed, leaving no detectable
trace of my Web wanderings. But this program can't protect you from real-time
monitoring of your computing, which is probably a bigger bugaboo these days.
Bottom line: Even paranoids have real enemies, and real needs.

-- John Breeden II

Win 95-98; Mac; $ 30, http://www.webroot.com



LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              142 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    April 20, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

The INS; Huge Legal Hurdles on Path to Asylum

Bill Miller , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 966 words


Despite yesterday's court ruling keeping him in the United States for the
immediate future, Elian Gonzalez and his Miami relatives face formidable legal
obstacles in their quest to gain political asylum for the boy, according to
legal specialists.

First, they must persuade the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta that
the 6-year-old is entitled to an asylum hearing, despite the wishes of his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who wants to return the child to Cuba. And even if
the court rules that the Immigration and Naturalization Service must consider
Elian's asylum application, the request ultimately could be denied for a host of
reasons, the specialists said.

"I have thought from the beginning that the Cuban American community has a lot
of political and financial weight they can throw around, but they have no legal
claim," said David D. Cole, a law professor from Georgetown University who
frequently handles immigration matters. "I think that the legal claim here is
frivolous."

Cole said he was surprised that the three-judge appeals panel granted an
injunction yesterday barring Elian from being returned to Cuba until his case is
decided. He said the judges appeared more swayed by "political realities" than
years of legal precedents. In the end, however, Cole predicted that the case
will turn on the question of who has the legal right to speak for Elian: the
boy, his relatives, or his father.

Justice Department lawyers and INS officials have maintained that Elian is too
young to move forward with his own asylum application. In court papers, they
argued that Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, had no standing to pursue
Elian's asylum claim as "next friend," even though he had been caring for the
youngster since the boy was rescued on Thanksgiving Day after Elian's mother and
nine other Cuban migrants drowned after their boat capsized. The Justice
Department and the INS contended that only Elian's father can speak for the boy.

In yesterday's ruling, the appellate judges indicated that Elian might well have
the legal right to seek asylum on his own. They pointed to a federal statute
that gives "any alien who is physically present in the United States or who
arrives in the United States" the right to apply for asylum. They said they had
doubts about the INS's interpretation of that statute because nothing in it says
anything about age.

The statute's language and intent will become critical issues in briefs and oral
arguments. Despite their concerns about how it squares with the INS actions, the
judges struck a cautionary note in their opinion yesterday, writing, "No one
should feel confident in predicting the eventual result in this case. . . . We
need to think more and hard about this case for which no sure and clear answers
shine out today."

Cole said the courts typically give broad leeway to agencies such as the INS on
questions concerning their interpretation of the law. Under INS regulations, a
living parent would speak for a minor in Elian's circumstances, Cole said. "I
just don't see any result that would say the father's wishes would be overborne
here," he said.

After the asylum applications were filed last December, INS officials met with
Juan Miguel Gonzalez. They quoted the father as saying, "As for him to get
asylum, I am not allowing him to stay or claim any type of petition; he should
be returned immediately to me." They met with him again and determined he was
not speaking under duress, leading to their decision finding the asylum
applications for Elian were invalid.

Even if the asylum request goes forward, the legal requirements are daunting.

Elian or his Miami relatives would be compelled to convince an INS hearing
officer that the boy has a "well-founded fear of persecution on account of race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political
opinion." The INS is anything but a rubber stamp for such applications. If the
hearing officer rejects the application, Elian would be entitled to keep
pressing the case before an immigration judge, the Board of Immigration Appeals
and a federal appellate court.

"For a child, it's extremely difficult to show that you would be subjected to
torture, imprisonment or detention without trial," said George R. A. Doumar, a
Washington lawyer who handles asylum cases. "I think the INS has taken a very
liberal view on asylum with respect to applications from Cuba, but if you really
apply the standards of asylum law, I don't believe there's any way that Elian
can be granted asylum. . . . His classroom is waiting for him in Cuba and he's a
national hero in Cuba."

No matter what happens next, Doumar said, the case will remain fascinating to
watch because of its political ramifications. "Our legal system is always
influenced a little bit by the political realm," he said. "But usually it's a
much more subtle presence than in this case, where the political pressure seems
unrelenting, especially from Miami."

Michael Maggio, another Washington immigration lawyer, said he was stunned by
yesterday's appellate court ruling because the 11th Circuit typically rules in
favor of the INS in legal disputes. "Surprised isn't the word. I'm astonished,"
Maggio said.

Like Doumar, Maggio said Elian will be hard-pressed to win asylum. "How is a
6-year-old boy going to show this? How is he going to show he was singled out
for persecution? What is the political opinion of a 6-year-old boy?" he asked.
But if the court opens the door to an asylum hearing, Maggio said, the INS
administrative process moves at a "snail's pace" and Elian could wind up in the
United States for years.

Maggio said he met last week with Juan Miguel Gonzalez in an effort to explain
the complicated legal process to him.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              143 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                    April 26, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Change by The Books; Libraries Respond to Immigrants in Array of Languages

Peter Pae , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1041 words


Not long after she moved here from Taiwan, Sherry Yu found something shocking in
an American library. It was a library card application form written entirely in
Chinese.

"I came here to see what an American library looks like and I'm leaving with an
American library card," Yu, 21, said in Chinese, smiling as she held up a key
chain with a library tag on it. "Can you believe that?"

Thirty years ago, Montgomery County fit the stereotype of suburban
America--overwhelmingly white and English-speaking. Now the evolution that has
tripled the percentage of foreign-born county residents has spread its influence
even to the library stacks.

Though Yu barely reads or writes English, she can check out books from the
Wheaton Regional Library in her native Chinese, one of eight languages reflected
on the shelves. Wheaton's eclectic and growing non-English collection
underscores the demographic diversity of an area whose once plain-vanilla
library now is an international drawing card.

The library's foreign language catalogue lists more than 1,500 books in Chinese,
1,500 in Korean, 1,400 in Spanish and 500 in Vietnamese. There are 37
periodicals in the four languages, and audio and videotapes aimed at helping
people learn English. A smattering of French, German and Russian works also can
be found in the library's overall collection of 200,000 items.

Since 1898, when Congress authorized that the District open its first library in
a house on New York Avenue, public libraries across the region have strived to
maintain a broad collection to serve varied interests. Now, librarians say the
demand for diversity is immensely greater, and though Wheaton's foreign language
collection is large, demand often outpaces supply.

"They are some of the most popular materials in the library," said Cynthia
Hicks, the Wheaton manager, a 30-year library veteran. "We can't keep them on
the shelves. . . . What people want in their libraries has changed, particularly
the demand for Internet access and for materials in other languages."

Even as libraries step up their interest in helping this diverse clientele,
librarians concede they're playing catch-up. At George Mason Regional Library in
Annandale, there is a two-month waiting list for some Korean books.

Fairfax County put nearly $ 400,000 into a special foreign language account for
the coming fiscal year, about double what it set aside last year. Fairfax's
population is closing in on 1 million, and more than a third of the residents
speak a primary language other than English, up from 10 percent 20 years ago.

Librarians charged with purchasing foreign materials must decide which slice of
the demographic pie to serve--a decision usually based on population
figures--and then find the best buy. Foreign materials tend to be more expensive
and difficult to acquire. Unlike heavily marketed English titles, foreign books
usually have a small press run and often sell out before libraries can order
them.

Rather than buying directly from foreign language publishers, libraries
increasingly are turning to outside vendors such as Pan Asian Publications USA
Inc. to select books from their own inventories.

"They rely on our expertise," said Sheng Chiu, president of California-based Pan
Asian, which stocks 27,000 titles in nearly a dozen languages and counts
Montgomery, Fairfax, Prince George's and Howard counties among its clients.

"Most libraries don't have the money or resources to have a separate
multilingual staff to manage the foreign language collections," Chiu said.

For libraries, the challenges go beyond acquiring books. Some of those who want
to read them are new library users who need help--logistically and
linguistically--negotiating their way around a library. Their children often
serve as translators.

Woodrow Wilson Library in Baileys Crossroads has hired a multilingual staff that
can speak 18 languages, among them Urdu, Tagalog and Mandarin.

At the Wheaton library, patrons sometimes line up even before the doors open.

Young Bonner arrived early one recent weekend to flip through a stack of Korean
women's magazines, eager for celebrity gossip from home. A few feet away, Mark
Chung struggled to hold 10 Chinese books as he waited in the checkout line with
his wife and parents, who accompany him to Wheaton every Sunday from their home
in Loudoun County, 35 miles away.

Wheaton is the only public library in the Washington area where he can browse
through a large collection of Chinese books and periodicals, Chung said, adding
that even though he has lived in the United States 10 years, he still prefers to
read books and newspapers in Chinese.

"This is our weekend getaway," said Chung, 37, an Ashburn resident who emigrated
from Hong Kong.

The popularity of the foreign titles was evident from the number of people
combing the shelves. "I can't believe someone already checked it out," moaned
Quoc Lai, a Vietnamese immigrant now living in Silver Spring, as he tried in
vain to find a title by his favorite author, Ngan Ngoc Nguyen. "I wish they
would have more."

Many recent immigrants did not have access to libraries in their native country
or grew accustomed to government censorship.

At Wheaton, Sherry Yu scanned the Chinese collection one recent Sunday and then
sheepishly turned to a companion, her hands placed over her mouth so others
couldn't hear.

"You know, there are some books here that are banned in Taiwan," she whispered
before surreptitiously pulling one from the shelf.


FOREIGN LANGUAGE COLLECTIONS GROW

Many libraries throughout the region are dedicating funds to build and maintain
their foreign language collections as a response to the growing number of
non-English speakers in their communities.


Library spending for foreign language materials:

District: $ 85,000 (Includes an $ 80,000 grant from the Carnegie Foundation)

Montgomery: $ 250,000

Prince George's: $ 60,000

Arlington: $ 40,000

Fairfax: $ 230,000


NOTE: The following libraries either didn't have a foreign language collection
or did not have a separate budget for purchasing the material: Alexandria,
Fauquier, Loudoun, Prince William, Anne Arundel, Calvert, Charles, Howard.



LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IG,,TWP

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              144 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     April 28, 2000, Friday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

INS Says It Feared Violence in Raid; U.S. Claims Many Close to Elian's Miami Kin
Were Armed, Set to Fight

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1551 words



Immigration and Naturalization Service agents charged with setting up and
executing the seizure of Elian Gonzalez had identified as many as two dozen
potentially armed individuals--many known to have concealed weapons permits and
criminal records--around his Miami home who agents believed were prepared to
thwart any government operation, INS officials said yesterday.

All of those individuals, the officials said, were involved in a structured
security system designed to prevent Elian's removal from his relatives. They
said the system included a five-man contingent of bodyguards around the family
itself, one of whom had been seen by a government informer carrying a gun inside
the Gonzalez house.

These revelations were part of a concerted effort by the government yesterday to
justify the level of INS force and weaponry used in the operation. Republican
members of Congress have described the agents as "jack-booted thugs" and "storm
troopers" and charged that unwarranted combat tactics were used against a
defenseless family and a largely docile crowd of innocent demonstrators outside.

To counter the charges in advance of a congressional hearing next week, the INS
yesterday made available for interviews two senior officials--the supervisory
agent in charge of intelligence for the operation, and James D. Goldman, the
assistant Miami district director for investigations who personally led the
raid.

Together, they described the two separate but related tasks they were assigned:
determining the level of threat and using that information to develop and train
for the best and safest way to extricate Elian from the house and remove him
from the area.

Their efforts included the use of aerial surveillance, covert agents and local
informers. Over the course of a week, a special tactical unit was brought in
from Texas for possible forced entry, supplementing INS agents gathered from
throughout Florida. Actual preparation for the operation included everything
from developing mock-ups and diagrams of the house itself on an empty, locked
floor of the local INS building to outfitting all vehicles with puncture-proof
tires.

Photographs of the Gonzalez front door were taken from an anti-Castro Web site
and blown up to study the structure and locks. Repeated test runs were held--of
the entry and exit of the house, the vehicle escape route along a local highway,
the helicopter flight to Homestead Air Force Base south of Miami.

The intelligence officer, who asked not to be identified by name, said that
their orders came from the Justice Department on April 14, the day that Elian's
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, defied an INS order to deliver Elian for return to
his Cuban father.

"There was a difference between the information collection process prior to the
14th and after the 14th," Goldman said. "Since day one, we've listened, we've
been all ears. But starting on the 14th, the whole complexion of the problem
kind of changed."

"We were required to gather as much intelligence information as we could about
the environment around the Gonzalez residence and any persons or groups who
might pose a possible threat," the intelligence agent said. Using "the whole
gamut of information-gathering . . . we basically determined . . . that there
was in fact a layered threat element that we had to deal with, to overcome in
any enforcement."

The first layer, he said, was "an immediate bodyguard contingent" of five men
who "provided immediate, close-in security for the Gonzalez family and Elian."
All of the five were found to have concealed weapons permits. "Source
information told us that part of what they were to do, if needed, was to help
prevent the recovery of Elian from the house . . . and that while they were on
the scene, they might well be armed."

A second layer, he said, consisted of a "cadre of between 15 and 20 individuals"
headquartered directly behind the Gonzalez residence in the home of an elderly
woman who had accepted their activities.

"We were successful in identifying about eight or nine of these individuals,"
the intelligence agent said. "Virtually all had notable criminal histories,
including convictions for crimes such as armed robbery, weapons, aggravated
assault. They were acting in a robust and somewhat structured security effort.
Sources told us [they] viewed their mission as alerting the Gonzalez family to
any attempt by the government to recover [Elian] as well as, if possible, to
thwart that effort."

Using walkie-talkies and cell phones, traveling on foot and on bicycle, the
individuals had set up observation posts and maintained a link to a local
Spanish-language radio station, which they contacted to broadcast a call for
large quantities of demonstrators whenever they felt it was necessary.

A third layer, he said, was the crowd itself. "We knew that there were people in
the crowd who, perhaps rhetorically, had threatened to literally die" to prevent
Elian's removal. The agents also identified a cadre of five members of Alpha 66,
a radical anti-Castro group that employs paramilitary and weapons training,
which was active in the crowd.

"With all of these elements combined," the agent said, "we knew that we had a
significant potential threat to our operation, not only to the safety of our
officers, but to innocent people."

Asked whether the Gonzalez family was involved in the security efforts, the
agent said there was no information that the family "controlled or commanded"
the operations. "However, we do know from direct observation and sources and
informants that the family and the bodyguard contingent had regular
communication with the people in the house behind and with the Alpha 66 people.
They were observed talking to them, meeting with these individuals on a regular
basis. . . . We don't believe they actually called the shots . . . but we're
certain they were at least aware" of their operations.

Even as intelligence-gathering continued, a BORTAC--Border Patrol Tactical
Unit--was brought in from El Paso, along with additional INS agents from
Jacksonville, Orlando and Tampa--for a total of about 140 agents who rehearsed
commands in Spanish and practiced hold techniques.

"We couldn't just show up in a public park," Goldman said. "BORTAC and some of
the recovery teams isolated a floor in an INS building. . . . We changed the
locks to simulate the house, set up desks and chairs to show halls and
entryways."

"Detail was the name of the game," Goldman said. "The three white vans were
selected . . . because of sliding doors on both sides." Tires were changed and
tinted windows installed. "There was some defensive driving training."

Two helicopters were stationed at the transfer point on nearby Watson Island. In
case of bad weather or breakdown, a "go-fast boat" was stationed in Biscayne
Bay.

Meanwhile, covert intelligence teams were deployed to the street around the
house to determine the complexity and size of the crowds at different times of
day and to probe the security response time to perceived threats.

On Tuesday, April 18, the team reported "that we were mission-capable," Goldman
said. "When asked, I stated that I would prefer to have a couple more days under
our belt so we could collect a little more intelligence, drill and rehearse.
Thursday was a possible date. Saturday was a possible date. Saturday had
'win-win' written all over it."

The government, he said, "attempted to maintain a moral high ground; they were
disinclined to effect a search warrant on Good Friday or Easter Sunday. Saturday
had advantages over work days: . . . different traffic patterns, life begins a
little earlier" during the week. School days were a problem, lest the agents not
be off the street by 6 a.m. "There were a multitude of issues that made early
morning, Saturday, a good time, an optimum time."

The agents started assembling at midnight Friday, even as last-minute
negotiating attempts were still underway among mediators working with the
relatives, Attorney General Janet Reno, and the lawyer for Elian's father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez. The agents had told Reno they needed an hour between the
go-ahead signal and the actual raid--which was tentatively scheduled for 4 a.m.
At 3 a.m., she told them to stand down and wait. At 4 a.m., Reno has said, she
determined there was no hope for the negotiations. She told the agents to
proceed.

Goldman, who was at the front of the six-agent tactical team that entered the
house, along with a female agent to take charge of Elian, insisted yesterday
that, had the relatives cooperated, the raid might not have taken place the way
it did. "If they had . . . and complied with the demands to open the door, if
they had let me in, in all probability I would have been in a position to
explain the circumstances and tell them I had a warrant, that I was recovering
Elian and was not taking him to Cuba."

As it was, he said, "we met resistance in the front yard," as the officers were
charged and demonstrators attempted to wrap them in television cables lying in
the yard. The relatives placed a couch in front of the door, he said.

"In 22 years in federal law enforcement, the intensity level, the effort to stop
us, I've never seen anything like it before," Goldman said.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2000

CORRECTION: An April 28 front-page article incorrectly characterized the
government's intelligence findings on the likelihood of armed individuals around
the home of Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives before the April 22 raid. It should
have said the government had identified as many as two dozen potentially armed
individuals, many known to have concealed weapons permits or criminal records,
rather than weapons permits and criminal records. Florida does not issue
concealed weapons permits to people with criminal records.

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              145 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     April 28, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

At Home in Any Language; Foreign-Born Real Estate Agents Help Immigrants,
Companies Close the Sale

Manuel Perez-Rivas , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1168 words


Paulo Baioni moves through the Bethesda split-level with the keen eyes of a
prospective home buyer. He steps in and out of rooms, casts glances at the
ceilings, inspects the bathrooms and the carpeting, and steps out for a look at
the yard.

Beside him is Mila Clifton, his real estate agent, there to answer questions and
help him sort through the details, big and small. It's a typical American scene
being conducted in a foreign language: in this case, Portuguese.

These days, particularly in the region that includes the nation's capital,
hearing business conducted in a foreign language isn't as foreign as it once
was.

As the Washington area becomes increasingly diverse, businesses are becoming
more aware that a knowledge of foreign languages and cultures can provide them
with a competitive edge. With the region's abundance of immigrants and other
international residents who are looking to set up homes, the real estate
business, too, has noticed.

At the North Bethesda office of Long & Foster where Clifton works, there are 17
agents who are immigrants, and who speak an array of languages in addition to
English. Many of them do much, if not most, of their business with foreign-born
clients.

For example, Clifton, who like Baioni is from Brazil and speaks Portuguese,
estimates that half her business is conducted either in Portuguese or Spanish,
which she also speaks fluently.

Her closeness to the culture helps, too. For instance, Baioni, a World Bank
employee from Sao Paulo who moved to the United States in 1992, likely would not
have called her if they hadn't socialized in the same Brazilian circles here in
the Washington area.

According to census data, immigrants make up one in six residents in the region.
In Montgomery County, the international flavor is even more striking. Recent
estimates show that one in five of the county's 850,000 residents is
foreign-born.

"All you have to do is just look around," said Marie Shannon, who manages the
North Betheda Long & Foster branch on Rockville Pike. Shannon said her office
has made a conscious effort to diversify its staff, adding, "The industry would
really be foolish if it weren't cognizant of the diversity of this area."

The sensitive nature of the real estate business, where people make decisions on
what is usually their biggest financial investment, means that there is no room
for even little doubts.

Shannon said it is not good enough to know the client's language; she prefers to
bring on agents who also understand the nuances of their culture. "I think more
than anything, as people, we look to operate within a certain comfort zone."

Since the office was established in 1995, it has been adding to its staff of
multilingual--and multicultural--agents. Agents such as Alice Fernandes,
originally from Portugal, Chinese native Edmund Ko, Thailand-born Mary Sokhor
and the Brazilian-born Clifton.

A quarter of the 72 agents based there are multilingual, and a similar share of
the office's total business comes from sales to a multinational clientele. On a
few occasions, when both buyer and seller speak a foreign language, entire deals
are closed with little English in between.

In fact, this market is so important that the office has prominently advertised
the multilingualism of its agents, placing ads in local papers that proclaim:
"We Speak Your Language."

For some of these agents--such as Mary Sokhor, who speaks Thai and
Laotian--business from the area's multinational community accounts for most of
their sales. Sokhor, who has been an agent for about a year, has spread the word
about her expertise through events at local temples in both Maryland and
Virginia, with contacts in embassies and via foreign-language press in the area.

Her clients, many of whom are newcomers, are often dependent on her not just for
information, but also for advice. "You feel that you're helping, because many
people don't know where to go or what to do," she said.

Much of that has to do with the vast differences in the house-hunting process
itself. Here there are countless additional steps, from home inspections, to
seeking pre-approval of a mortgage, to making written offers, that are not
typical in other countries. And beyond the process itself, there are other
factors to consider.

"This may be the biggest purchase they ever make in their lives," Clifton said.
"This is all new to people, and they really want someone with whom they can
share opinions and who they can trust to understand their concerns completely,
so there isn't even the smallest doubt. Even if language is not an issue, they
want someone who understands their culture."

In dealing with Latin American clients, for example, that often means
understanding the importance of the extended family. Many families, for
instance, need enough space for relatives whose visits can last for weeks.

Alice Fernandes, who deals regularly with immigrants from her native Portugal,
has been in the business since the 1970s. And the fact that she knows not only
the language, but also the culture, helps. She knows, for example, that many of
her countrymen prefer a brick exterior over clapboard because brick is closer to
the solid stone houses they left behind.

And in some cases, people want a home in neighborhoods where there are already
stores and services that cater to their cultures.

"Everything is new here. It's a new language, a new culture, a new life. And
many people are looking for something that reminds them of where they came
from," Clifton said.

And, yet, they are also looking for what everybody else is looking for: a good
home.

"E bonito, nao?" Clifton asked Paulo Baioni, praising the house in Portuguese as
they walked back down the steps of the Bethesda split-level.

Clifton's client nodded, uncommitted, and they left for the next house.

Baioni and his wife, a native of Peru, are looking for a bigger home where their
young boy will have room to grow. They also want good schools.

Baioni and Clifton first met in 1994, at an Arlington bar where many Brazilians
had gathered to watch the World Cup and where they had mutual friends. They
didn't keep in contact, though, until this year when the time came for Baioni to
look for a house, and then he called Clifton.

"I trust her," Baioni said.


Doing Business in Many Languages


A look at the region's immigrants shows the wide diversity in their native
languages. Businesses such as the North Bethesda office of Long & Foster find
that recruiting employees who understand different languages and cultures can
give them a competitive edge.


Immigrant languages in the Washington region, 1990-1996


Spanish: 26%

English: 17

Chinese: 6

Hindi: 5

Filipino: 5

Vietnamese: 5

Korean: 4

Arabic: 4

Thai: 4

Amharic: 3

Punjabi: 3

Persian: 2

French: 2

Russian: 2

Other: 12%


SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service; numbers analyzed by Dan Keating
of The Washington Post



LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, TWP

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              146 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     April 28, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Flooded by Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A30; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 152 words


The April 18 news story about overcrowding in Los Angeles schools brings to mind
the nursery rhyme about the old lady in the shoe. Unfortunately, this story is
no fairy tale.

As the reporter noted, the reason for this population explosion is "a surge in
the number of immigrants who came to this country in the past two decades."

The Rand report "Immigration in a Changing Economy" (1997) notes that half of
all students enrolled in elementary school in California are children of
immigrants. The influx is so staggering that California must build the
equivalent of an elementary school a day to keep up with this enrollment
pressure.

Americans are a generous people.

But having to provide an education to millions of foreigners, many of whom are
here illegally, is generosity gone amok. This is the proper domain of foreign
aid, not immigration.

TIM AARONSON

El Cerrito, Calif.



LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              147 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 3, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Ignoring Immigration

Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 1028 words


The Elian Gonzalez case reminds us, in a curious and unintended way, of the
great forgotten issue of the 2000 presidential campaign--immigration. It is
forgotten because hardly anyone seriously discusses it, certainly not Al Gore or
George Bush. It is an issue because, more than most of what they are discussing,
immigration will shape America in the 21st century.

The Census Bureau issued a long report the other day ("Profile of the
Foreign-Born Population in the United States: 1997") that catalogs immigration's
already immense effects:


* In 1997, almost 10 percent of the population was foreign-born, double the
level of 1970 (4.7 percent) and the highest since 1930 (11.6 percent).


* Today's immigrants come mainly from Latin America (51 percent in 1997) and
Asia (27 percent), a huge change from 1970, when most came from Europe (62
percent) and Canada (9 percent).


* Although some immigrants do well, many do not. For households headed by
immigrants, the poverty rate among children under 18 (32 percent) in 1997 was
almost twice as high as among households headed by native-born Americans (18
percent).


* A smaller proportion of immigrants are citizens. In 1997, about 35 percent
were, down from about two-thirds in 1970.


* Of today's immigrants (25.8 million in 1997), about half have congregated in
five metropolitan areas--Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County (4.8 million); New
York-New Jersey-Connecticut (4.6 million); Miami-Fort Lauderdale (1.4 million);
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose (1.4 million); and Chicago-Gary-Kenosha (1.1
million).

The Elian Gonzalez controversy has taught--if nothing else--that immigration
issues quickly become inflamed. Social statistics are drab and impersonal. Each
immigrant's story is unique and, often, intensely moving. What is one person's
glorious "multiculturalism" is another's abrasive social conflict. The whole
issue is a thicket of ethnic, racial, national and ethical passions. This almost
certainly means that the hard questions won't be asked in the campaign, even
though the next president can--at least in theory--influence immigration policy.

The hardest questions are these: Are we getting the "right kind" of immigrants?
Can we do anything about it?

In "Heaven's Door" George Borjas--a Harvard economist who immigrated to the
United States from Cuba at age 12 with his mother--argues that present
immigration policy courts disaster. It tends to result in poor, unskilled
immigrants. Poorer immigrants, he says, assimilate slowly into the larger
society. They tend to cluster in ethnic ghettos. They are heavy users of
government services. The United States would be better off, Borjas contends,
favoring better-educated immigrants.

Borjas's message has a common-sense appeal. Don't stop immigration--but be more
selective. To some extent, the Census Bureau report corroborates his portrait of
immigrants. They have lower earnings than native-born Americans: 25 percent
lower for men, 14 percent for women. About 20 percent of people without private
or government health insurance are immigrants. About 25 percent of immigrants
receive some sort of income-related federal assistance, from food stamps to
Medicaid.

There's also a connection with an aging America. Baby boomers feel entitled to
government benefits, mainly Social Security and Medicare. On the one hand,
immigration should make it easier for the country to pay for these benefits. It
increases the number of workers and taxpayers. On the other hand, many of these
workers--and their families--may be poor and in need of their own government
benefits. There could be a collision between the needy young and the expectant
old.

Canada has a point system that gives preference to better-educated immigrants.
Borjas is suggesting something like this for the United States. Though this is a
reasonable proposal, it is unlikely to be debated. To discuss immigration in
anything but the blandest terms is to risk sounding like a bigot. In practice,
Borjas's plan would discriminate against Hispanics. More than 25 percent of
today's immigrants are from Mexico; they are among the poorest and least
skilled. They would suffer under any plan promoting skills-based immigration.

Both Bush and Gore are pursuing Hispanic votes. Neither wants to sound like Pat
Buchanan. Even Borjas concedes that his proposal is easily dismissed as
"racist." Practical and ethical issues also loom. Can we better police our
borders to limit illegal immigration? Then there's the present policy on legal
immigration. It gives preferences to family members--the children, spouses,
parents and siblings of U.S. citizens or "permanent residents" (holders of
"green cards"). Everyone favors some family prefer-ences. It's simple humanity.
But how far should they go? There are real conflicts between uniting families
and favoring skilled immigrants.

We evade choices. High-tech companies are now clamoring for more software
programmers and computer specialists who they say can't be found in the United
States. The response has been to raise the number of visas allowed under the
H-1B program, which permits foreigners temporarily to fill vacancies. The number
of H-1B visas was raised from 65,000 to 115,000 for 1999 and 2000--and now there
are congressional proposals to raise it to 200,000 annually. The visas typically
last six years; but many of these workers want to remain permanently. Estimates
by B. Lindsay Lowell of Georgetown University show that immigration quotas can't
accommodate all of them.

America has a huge social and economic capacity to absorb newcomers; but that
capacity is not unlimited. As long as immigration quotas exist, questions of who
and how many are unavoidable. By 2025, the Census Bureau projects immigrants to
be 12 percent of the population; their American-born children will probably
represent an equal number. That's one-quarter of the population. Perhaps it is
naive to expect presidential candidates to address an issue fraught with
political hazards, ethical ambiguities and uncertain social consequences. But if
this isn't about the future, what would be?



LOAD-DATE: May 03, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              148 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      May 4, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 509 words


Iraqi Doctor Eligible for Asylum, Judge Says


LOS ANGELES--An Iraqi doctor who languished in jail for 3 1/2 years while the
Immigration and Naturalization Service tried to deport him as a spy is not a
security risk and is eligible for asylum, a judge has ruled.

Ali Karim was one of the "Iraqi Six," the Iraqi National Congress members who
fought Saddam Hussein's troops in northern Iraq and were spirited out of the
country by the CIA in 1997--only to be taken straight to an INS detention center
near Los Angeles and held as suspected Iraqi or Iranian spies.

The other five agreed to deportation with their families and are under house
arrest in Nebraska while arrangements are made for their travel. But Karim
refused the deportation offer and took his case to an immigration appellate
court, which ordered that he be retried.


Public School District Loses Accreditation


KANSAS CITY, Mo.--Kansas City's public school district lost its accreditation
because it failed to meet all of Missouri's performance standards and could be
abolished unless it improves, officials said.

In the next two years, the city's 30,000 public school pupils will have to show
improvements in test scores, graduation rates and other academic measures or the
district could be split up, taken over by the state or dissolved.

Education experts said they believe this is the first time a large public school
system has lost its accreditation.


* MAYWOOD, Ill.--A woman who had told neighbors that she was pregnant snatched a
premature baby from a hospital, apparently concealing the child under a coat.
Police said they identified Vanecha Cooper, 24, from surveillance video at the
hospital and went to her apartment, where she had hidden the baby under clothes
in a hamper. By the time police received permission to search the apartment five
hours later, 2-week-old Zquan Wakefield had suffocated. Cooper was charged with
murder and kidnapping.

* YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, Wyo.--Call it Old Unfaithful. For the first time in
nine years, the world's tallest active geyser--Steamboat--erupted early Tuesday,
park officials said. Because of the hour, only two park visitors, sleeping
illegally in their truck, saw the vapor plume.

* HOUSTON--An experimental heart pump that could provide an alternative to heart
transplants was implanted in a 52-year-old Texas woman last month, surgeons
said. The Jarvik 2000 pump, about the size of a flashlight battery, was slipped
inside the left ventricle of Lois Spiller's heart, where it is pumping a steady
flow of oxygenated blood that she can increase or decrease. Spiller said she
feels "100 percent better" but must remain in the hospital to await a heart
transplant.

* SEAL BEACH, Calif.--Hundreds of cottontail rabbits are eating the flowers and
grass at the Leisure World retirement community, and exterminators plan to shoot
them if the city grants a permit. Resident Jack Holloway said opinions about the
rabbits were split: "Half the people love them and half hate them."



LOAD-DATE: May 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              149 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                       May 5, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

TB Tests of Immigrants Urged; Panel Offers Blueprint to Eliminate the Disease in
U.S.

Susan Okie , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 714 words


A new plan for eliminating tuberculosis in the United States would require
immigrants from some countries to undergo TB skin tests, and those testing
positive would have to be treated before they could receive a permanent visa or
"green card."

The proposal reflects the fact that while tuberculosis rates are at a record low
in this country, the disease is an increasingly menacing killer worldwide.
One-third of the global population is infected with the slow-growing bacteria
that produce the illness, which kills between 2 million and 3 million people
each year. In many parts of the world, drug-resistant strains of the bacteria
are making the infection hard to cure.

The proposed changes in immigration policy are part of a blueprint by an expert
panel for eliminating TB in the United States by about 2035. The report,
released yesterday by the Institute of Medicine, an arm of the National Academy
of Sciences, also recommends tripling the annual U.S. budget for tuberculosis
research, streamlining the network of public health programs for detecting and
treating cases, and increasing U.S. assistance to countries battling epidemics
of the disease.

In the United States, budget cuts in the 1970s contributed to TB's resurgence a
decade ago, and complacency now could be even more perilous, warned Morton N.
Swartz, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School who chaired the panel.

"This country has entered a dangerous phase in which the disease has retreated
to specific communities where it can lie dormant and resist detection," Swartz
said. Without steps to contain it, "the disease could come back with a vengeance
and exact a heavy price."

Once someone becomes infected with tuberculosis, the microbes can live for years
in the lungs without causing symptoms. People with such a latent infection
cannot transmit TB to others, although it can be detected by a skin test.
However, if the infection becomes active, as it does in about 10 percent of
those infected, the sufferer may develop a fever, night sweats, weight loss and
a cough that can spread the bacteria.

Last year, 43 percent of 17,500 new cases of active TB reported in the United
States occurred in people born elsewhere. In 1992, it was 27 percent. The report
predicts that foreign-born residents will soon make up the majority of TB cases
in this country. Cases are concentrated in cities and states with large numbers
of immigrants. Almost half of U.S. counties reported no new TB cases in 1998,
the report said.

Currently, would-be immigrants to the United States must have a chest X-ray, and
active cases of TB must be treated before a visa is granted. No special medical
tests are required for those seeking temporary visas. The new report proposes
requiring TB skin tests for people applying for permanent visas who come from
countries where more than 35 percent of the population is infected (the average
infection rate worldwide). Those testing positive could still enter the United
States, but would have to take drugs here to cure their latent infections before
they could become permanent U.S. residents.

Most countries with high infection rates are in Asia and Africa, said panel
member Ronald Bayer of Columbia University.

They include Angola, Botswana, Burundi, the Philippines, Vietnam, the Republic
of Korea, China, Cambodia and Thailand. Although Mexico's infection rate is
below 35 percent, the report recommends testing Mexican applicants for permanent
visas because immigrants from Mexico make up a sizable percentage of TB cases in
this country.

Swartz said the recommendation "would require both a major shift in current
immigration programs and additional funding from Congress." About 250,000
people, or about one-eighth of applicants for immigration, would be affected
annually. The panel estimated the cost of testing and treatment at $ 23 million
per year but said it would be cheaper than treating active cases of TB likely to
develop in the future if immigrants with latent infections are not treated.

The proposed changes in immigration policy would have to be mandated by
Congress, said Eyleen Schmidt, a spokesperson for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. "We've received the report and we're looking it over,"
she said.


LOAD-DATE: May 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              150 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                       May 5, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Built by Immigrants

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A26; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 169 words


Tim Aaronson ["Flooded by Immigrants," letters, April 28] has a point that the
United States could more wisely use its tax monies in foreign aid to encourage
people besieged by violence, drugs and wars to stay in their own countries.

But it is important to remember that most of us arrived on these shores from
other countries in order to better our lives--yes, to better them financially,
to enable our children to get better education, to escape pogroms and religious
persecution and war.

We honor these people as our "forefathers."

We should remember that the people we lift up did not come from indigenous
peoples. They came from England, Ireland, Germany, Holland, France and many
other countries.

Immigration has not been an unmitigated good for this country--ask the
indigenous peoples about that--but immigrants have built this country to be the
nation it is today.

We are not "flooded by immigrants," we are constructed by immigrants.

CHRISTINE HOWLETT

Mount Rainier



LOAD-DATE: May 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              151 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 10, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Immigration: Is This Progress?

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 278 words


As a grandmother I am concerned about the country my six grandchildren will
inherit. Robert J. Samuelson's May 3 op-ed column ["Ignoring Immigration"] is
truthful in pointing out the negative aspects of our immigration policy.

I am neither racist not anti-immigrant but am concerned about the pressure on
our schools, medical facilities, welfare system, traffic, environment and civil
society.

The two presidential candidates should discuss a reduced legal immigration
number instead of currying favor with recent immigrants. Many of these recent
immigrants know all too well that the high immigration numbers allow a flood of
more than 1 million newcomers a year--a flood that makes life in the United
States harder for them.

Let's have a real debate on immigration and the future of our country.

SARAH G. EPSTEIN

Washington


Robert Samuelson is right to ask, "Where is the debate on immigration?" In
California, we are choking on overpopulation, as shown by impossible traffic,
skyrocketing housing prices, depleted natural resources and dysfunctional
schools. The state has 34.7 million residents and an annual growth rate higher
than that of Bangladesh (1.7 vs. 1.6 percent). While 1.7 percent may not sound
extreme, the compounding effect indicates a population doubling in just 41 years
if immigration trends continue.

Those of us with lifestyles unprotected by wealth feel the effects of American
overpopulation daily and do not regard the globalized view of "progress" as
positive. We instead see a formerly honorable institution--immigration--turned
into a weapon against the American people.

BRENDA WALKER

Berkeley



LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              152 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      May 12, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Cubans Reach Fla.; Smugglers' Aid Suspected

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A30

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: MARATHON, Fla., May 11



Twenty-seven Cubans found wandering early today near an oceanside park in the
Florida Keys were probably brought here by smugglers, U.S. Border Patrol
officials said.

Agents found the group of 13 men, eight women and six youths around 1:30 a.m.,
and all appeared to be in good health, officials said.

They told the Immigration and Naturalization Service that they each paid 1,000
Cuban pesos, or about $ 48, to buy a boat for their trip.

They claimed the boat sank three miles from land, but that they were rescued by
two Americans with a boat.

Border Patrol officials said the Cubans were likely dropped off by smugglers
because the accounts of their journey were inconsistent.

They were placed in INS custody pending interviews with immigration officials.

Cuban immigrants who reach shore generally are allowed to stay in the United
States and seek asylum, while those picked up at sea are returned to Cuba.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              153 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 13, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Algerian Held In Va. Prison Gains Asylum

David A. Vise

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 189 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has granted political asylum to Anwar
Haddam, an Algerian politician who began a hunger strike in a Virginia prison
earlier this month after being held for more than three years in a
secret-evidence case, his attorney said yesterday.

Maria Kiblan said that unless Haddam is allowed to leave prison in
Fredericksburg this weekend, she will file papers in federal court Monday
seeking his immediate release. Advocates for Haddam said some U.S. officials
apparently had sought to link Haddam's statements to crimes of armed groups
operating in Algeria.

"This case should not have happened to start with," said Nihad Awad, executive
director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, a Washington-based
Islamic advocacy group. "We have not seen any evidence presented against him to
justify his imprisonment."

Nassima Haddam said her husband technically has been held on charges that he is
in the United States illegally. Kiblan said the INS granted Anwar Haddam
political asylum in response to a petition filed by his wife, who was granted
political asylum in November.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              154 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      May 15, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

Thai Boy Caught Up in Fight Against Sex Trafficking

Hanna Rosin , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1040 words



He could have been another pixie like Elian, except he arrived here constantly
crying, his face mottled by chicken pox and a rash. Plus he came from an
ideologically less interesting country.

Still, 2-year-old Phanupong Khaisri turned out to be the perfect victim for
another international cause. Since arriving at Los Angeles International Airport
a month ago in the arms of strangers, the toddler from Thailand has galvanized a
two-continent crusade against the horrors of the thriving underworld of
international sex trafficking.

Phanupong, nicknamed "Got," arrived in the immigration control line with a
couple posing as sightseeing parents. When questioned by suspicious agents, the
Indonesian man, Suseno Karjopranato, admitted that he and the Chinese woman, Chu
Mwei Long, were not married and that the boy was not his son.

Only after the two adults were deported did Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials fill in the blanks: The man, they suspect, is connected to a
notorious international smuggling ring. The woman was destined to be a sex slave
somewhere in America. The boy was a human decoy, designed to make them look like
a family on holiday.

He had been rented to the man by his mother for something like $ 250, drugged
and bundled onto the plane despite a raging ear infection. And it was probably
the third time he had been used this way, his mother eventually admitted to Thai
authorities.

For opponents of sex trafficking, Got was their spotted owl, their Polly Klaas.
The trade has worsened each year, and a recent CIA report estimates that as many
as 50,000 such women and children are brought to the United States annually. But
with trafficked women, there is always the question of their complicity. With a
boy who cannot speak his own name yet, no one can say he agreed.

Rescuing Got has become a crusade both here and in Thailand. On Tuesday, a Los
Angeles judge granted a human rights group's request to delay Got's return to
Thailand, where activists fear he will fall through the cracks of Thailand's
child welfare system and back into the arms of the traffickers.

"What we're trying to prevent is a child, who is ill, from being deported to a
place where he'll get little medical attention and where he may land back in the
stream of illicit international trafficking," said Peter Schey, president of the
Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, which filed the lawsuit.

U.S. District Judge Dickran M. Tevrizian Jr. granted the request with passion,
interrupting testimony from an INS official, who was saying the boy could return
safely, by reading part of the famous poem by Emma Lazarus inscribed on the
Statue of Liberty, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning
to breathe free." The judge added, "If we send him back, that would be false
advertising."

A hearing is scheduled May 23 to determine Got's fate. In the meantime,
advocates are using the case to highlight the horrors of sex trafficking and how
the INS handles its victims and perpetrators.

The lawsuit explains how the INS deported the couple without fully investigating
agents' initial suspicions, thus missing a rare opportunity to crack a
trafficking ring and preempt a crime.

Karjopranato, the Indonesian, "was a perpetrator of such a serious crime and
they just let him walk away, as if he were guilty of a traffic violation," said
Jennifer Stanger of the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking. "When
somebody arrives with false documents, the INS should not focus on whether he's
illegal at the expense of noticing the red flags that tell us this is a
trafficking case."

The INS responded by saying its Bangkok office is working with the Thai
government to investigate the smugglers. At the hearing, U.S. attorneys argued
that Got should be reunited with his family as soon as possible, in this case
his paternal grandparents--in echoes of the Elian Gonzalez case.

"The Thai government has assured us that Phanupong's grandparents will take care
of him in Thailand," INS Los Angeles District Director Thomas Schiltgen said in
a statement, adding that the child should not return until "he is deemed healthy
enough to travel."

Got is staying with Chutima Vucharatavintara, a social worker at the Thai
Community Development Center. In the role of Elian cousin Marisleysis Gonzalez,
Vucharatavintara says the two have bonded and that the grandparents should come
to America to slowly reacquaint themselves with the boy.

The advocates are nervous, given the boy's disturbing family history, a classic
in the cycle of abuse. He was born in June 1997 in a village in the Chiang Rai
region of Thailand, an area known for trafficking, according to the Coalition to
Abolish Slavery and Trafficking. A few months after his birth, his father
discovered he was HIV positive and killed himself.

His mother, Tabtim Kaewtaengjan, was sold into sexual slavery at age 12,
according to Thai press reports. Both sides believe she is a drug addict and
unfit to raise a child, particularly since she is now married to a man suspected
of running a trafficking ring.

"I was a bit worried about my son, but I saw that they got along well," she told
Thai authorities, a local paper reported. "Hence I allowed them to take a trip
together," she said, adding that she never asked Karjopranato where they went.

Got had lived with his paternal grandparents, and his grandfather said the boy's
mother picked him up a few months ago without explanation. He learned of his
grandson's fate from the newspapers.

After his traveling companions were deported, INS officials took Got to a
psychiatrist, who determined he had insomnia, was terrified of the dark and
could not stop crying. Later, Got had surgery to drain his ears of fluid.

The judge has ordered a thorough medical evaluation and asked that the
grandparents come to America to ensure they are fit caretakers. The advocates
remain guarded, not yet granting that they will let him go home. They also are
discussing seeking asylum for the boy.

"We did a thousand times more for Elian," said Schey. "Just because this child
is from Thailand doesn't mean he doesn't deserve the same care and attention."


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              155 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Lawmakers Target Secret Evidence

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 244 words


Lawmakers yesterday urged the elimination of a law that allows the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to use secret evidence in deportation hearings. INS
and FBI officials warned that such action could benefit terrorists and
compromise national security.

"Secret evidence is a national embarrassment and we need to take action," said
Rep. David E. Bonior (D-Mich.), a chief sponsor with Rep. Tom Campbell
(R-Calif.).

Bonior, a leading House liberal, was also joined by fellow liberal Rep. John
Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) and conservative Rep. Robert L. Barr Jr. (R-Ga.) in
seeking a change in a 1996 anti-terrorism act that gives the INS the authority
to arrest, detain and deport non-citizens based on evidence not revealed to the
defendant.

INS and FBI officials contended that they withhold information from court
proceedings only after the approval of the attorney general or deputy attorney
general.

"We take these matters seriously," said FBI General Counsel Larry Parkinson. "We
have found, however, that in a small number of cases the use of such information
is necessary to adequately protect the national security."

The officials said classified evidence is involved in only 11 out of 300,000
pending INS cases. Supporters of the bill said more than 20 people are being
detained under secret evidence, and all but one are Arabs or Muslims. They noted
that some federal judges have ruled the use of secret evidence unconstitutional.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              156 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 24, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

Behind the Counter

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A36; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 230 words


As the president and chief executive of Carlson Restaurants Worldwide, parent
company of T.G.I. Friday's Inc., I want to comment on the conclusions drawn by
Robert Samuelson in his May 3 op-ed column, "Ignoring Immigration."

T.G.I. Friday's restaurants employ more than 40,000 people in the United States.
Our experience has been that immigrants of all skill levels are essential to the
success of our business. Our experience has been that immigrants do not displace
American workers, but staff positions that are difficult to fill because of the
labor shortage.

The National Restaurant Association predicts the restaurant industry will create
2 million jobs by 2010. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says the worker
shortage is the biggest threat to continued economic growth. The chairman has
testified that Congress should "open up our immigration rolls significantly,"
and that the United States should "be carefully focused on the contribution"
immigrants make to our economic expansion.

I agree with Mr. Samuelson that the public debate over immigration will shape
America in the 21st century. But our political leaders must take a broad look at
the importance of changing our immigration laws so that this unprecedented
period of economic growth can continue.

WALLACE B. DOOLIN

President and CEO

Carlson Restaurants Worldwide

Dallas



LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              157 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      May 29, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 494 words



U.S. Probes Allegations

Against INS Officers


MIAMI--Officials are investigating allegations that Immigration and
Naturalization Service officers at a Miami detention facility had sexual contact
with detainees.

At least two officers at the Krome Service Processing Center in Miami-Dade
County have been reassigned.

Among the allegations: A transsexual detainee claims to have been sexually
assaulted twice by an officer; a female detainee alleges one guard had sex with
her; she and another woman have become pregnant while being held in the
facility, one allegedly by the guard, the other allegedly by a fellow detainee.

No names were released, and authorities did not specify the number under
investigation.

The allegations were referred to the agency's Office of Internal Audit and the
Justice Department's inspector general, said Maria Elena Garcia, INS spokeswoman
in Miami.


Jury Awards $ 55 Million

In Malpractice Case


CHICAGO--A jury has awarded $ 55 million to a woman who entered a hospital with
pneumonia and came out with brain damage.

Anna Mederos, now 59, suffered bleeding during a bronchoscopy exam in 1995,
according to her lawyers. There was a delay in intubating Mederos, which kept
her from receiving needed oxygen.

The award by the Cook County jury is the largest in a medical malpractice case
in Illinois in the last decade, said John L. Kirkton, editor of the Jury Verdict
Reporter in Chicago.

In addition to Ravenswood Hospital Medical Center, the award was against
anesthesiologist Donald L. Vidger, Sunnyside Anesthesia Association and James B.
Gallai, a specialist in pulmonary diseases.

During a bronchoscopy, Gallai may have hit an artery, according to the woman's
attorney, Joseph Power. It caused the "greatest amount of bleeding in my
career," Gallai testified in the trial.

The doctors declined to comment on the award. A spokeswoman for Ravenswood
Hospital would not discuss details of the case or say if the hospital or its
parent company, Advocate Health Care of Oak Brook, would appeal.

Mederos has a full-time nurse, and her husband, Eusebio, has quit his job as a
truck driver to help care for his wife.


* HAWTHORNE, Calif.--A small plane crashed on a suburban street near a shopping
mall, killing all three aboard, authorities said. The single-engine Piper went
down about noon, moments after takeoff from nearly Hawthorne Municipal Airport,
said Luis Diaz, an operations officer with the Federal Aviation Administration.
The plane was headed for Las Vegas, police said.


* KISSIMMEE, Fla.--A whooping crane whose birth was the first documented in the
U.S. wild in 60 years has died, apparently after being attacked by a bobcat. The
Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission said the two-month-old bird
was found Thursday in two inches of water with signs that it had been chewed and
partially eaten, "conditions associated with bobcat predation."



LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              158 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     May 31, 2000, Wednesday, Final Edition

For Deep Cover, CIA Seeks Deep Diversity; New Targets Reshape Agency's Hiring

Vernon Loeb, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1475 words


Her family immigrated to the United States when she was a teenager, searching
for the kind of opportunity they never had in Latin America. Her parents
preached hard work, education, patriotism.

Now she is preparing to put her Latino heritage and her education at a top U.S.
university to use in a globe-trotting career--as a spy in countries where, she
believes, her language skills and appearance will allow her to operate in ways
"a white, blond-haired, blue-eyed American" never could.

"My parents are very proud," she said.

While CIA officials refused to disclose the woman's name, age or country of
birth, they made her available for an interview at the agency's headquarters in
Langley to illustrate the CIA's new push for diversity in its clandestine
branch, the Directorate of Operations.

Like other government agencies, the CIA has long viewed affirmative action as a
desirable social goal, and its clandestine service has long made use of
immigrants capable of blending into foreign locales. But with an increasing
focus on terrorists, narcotics traffickers, weapons sellers and other "hard
targets" who don't show up at embassy cocktail parties, the agency's need to
hire nonwhite spies fluent in many languages has never been greater, top
officials say.

"When you're trying to recruit an agent, you're establishing a bond with that
person," said David W. Carey, the CIA's executive director, its No. 3 post. "If
you're a blond-haired guy from Oklahoma, there are some parts of the world where
that's an uphill battle."

In its biggest hiring push in more than a decade, the CIA has run a series of
advertisements in newspapers and highbrow magazines, such as the Economist, that
depict the Directorate of Operations as a rainbow coalition of good-looking
twentysomethings.

The truth, at the moment, is somewhat different. Of the CIA's corps of case
officers--believed to number more than 1,000--just 11 percent are minorities and
18 percent are women. And although CIA Director George J. Tenet six months ago
appointed an African American, Donald R. Cryer, as his special assistant for
diversity programs, the agency's top managers are still predominantly white men.

But CIA officials say that a third of the new operations officers hired in the
past year have been women. While just 11 percent have been minorities as
traditionally defined (blacks, Asians or Hispanics), 20 percent of all new
operations officers are native speakers of a foreign language and 75 percent
have advanced proficiency in foreign languages, many because they have lived
abroad. Almost half have advanced degrees.

"We are currently hiring officers in the Directorate of Operations with
specialized skills directly applicable to combating terrorism worldwide," such
as fluency in Russian, Arabic, Farsi and Chinese, said James L. Pavitt, the
agency's deputy director for operations.

"Fluency in these languages, almost by definition, suggests that they may be
native born and learned the language at their mother's knee," Pavitt added. "If
you're looking [at diversity] from a purely social perspective, can we do
better? You bet. But I'm looking at it now not only from that perspective, but
from the business perspective as well: How do I operate in parts of the world
where I need a different breed of cat, not somebody who necessarily looks like
me or talks like me?"

CIA officials acknowledge that they face some image problems in recruiting
minorities, given the agency's past support for coups in Latin America and the
Middle East and a belief among some African Americans that CIA operatives helped
bring crack cocaine to urban America.

"Are we going to be effective going in and setting up our recruitment booth in
Watts? No, clearly not," Carey said.

But the Latino emigre in training to be a CIA spy expressed no such
reservations. On the contrary, she said a keen sense of patriotism attracted her
to the agency. CIA officials insisted that they are able to find many minority
candidates who harbor no negative views about the agency.

The value of diversity in a spy service that operates in almost every country
would seem to be obvious. "You can't have white guys doing operational things in
most of the world and expect them to get away with it," said Brian P. Fairchild,
a retired operations officer.

Yet Fairchild and a dozen other current and former spies say it is possible to
overstate the value of diversity for clandestine operations, since much
street-level espionage activity is performed by foreigners.

In CIA parlance, a U.S. citizen working as a professional spy overseas is a
"case officer," while a foreigner on the CIA payroll is an "agent." Many agents
are not handled directly by a CIA case officer but by a "principal agent" of the
same nationality. There are also "access agents," who help CIA officers get
closer to their targets, and "support agents," who provide transportation, safe
houses and other services.

The need for diversity is also diminished, some former agency officers maintain,
by the CIA's frequent use of embassy cover, the practice of having CIA officers
work out of U.S. embassies under the guise of State Department employees, which
quickly brings them to the attention of foreign intelligence agencies.

One former operations officer scoffed at Tenet's promotion of diversity as an
"operational imperative," contending that a skilled case officer of any ethnic
background--whether male or female, black, white, Asian or Latino--can operate
anywhere in the world, using his or her own skills and those of foreign agents,
where necessary.

"Diversity of experience is a necessity," the former officer said. "Ethnic
diversity may be a laudable social goal, but it is not by any means an
operational imperative."

But most current and former operatives interviewed disagreed, arguing that it is
often essential to be able to put, say, an officer of Arabic descent on the
ground in Amman or a native speaker of Farsi in Tehran.

Garrett Jones, who served as CIA station chief in Somalia during peacekeeping
operations in 1993, cited the example of an African American officer who was
able to work undercover for weeks in north Mogadishu, which he said would have
been all but impossible for Jones or any of the station's other white officers.

"They've got a new world to operate in," added Milt Bearden, a former station
chief in Khartoum, Islamabad and Bonn. "It's not a bunch of second secretaries
chasing second secretaries at embassies in Bern."

Jack Downing, the only person in CIA history to serve as station chief in both
Moscow and Beijing, said it was not until the 1970s that the CIA first posted
officers in countries from which they, or their parents, had recently emigrated.
Until then, the agency feared that such officers would be seriously hampered by
the host countries' intense mistrust--and surveillance--of them.

While such first- and second-generation emigres have indeed faced heavy
surveillance, he said, experience has shown that they also have enormous
potential once they are able to evade their watchers and function on the streets
as a native.

"It's one of our real strengths as a nation, being a nation of nations, to have
all these different kinds of people," said Downing, who--like John le Carre's
fictional spy master, George Smiley--was brought out of retirement for a few
years to rebuild a badly demoralized clandestine service.

"We have a competitive advantage," said Downing, who retired for a second time
last year. "Whether it's the Near East or Africa, Latin America or Asia, to have
people who have the language and look the part and have that cultural feel, even
if it's second generation, is a terrific operational advantage. We have used it
on many occasions. We just need more."

One former employee said the CIA now has an officer of Arabic descent who joined
the agency in midcareer and has been a "phenomenal" undercover operative in the
Middle East. "His Arabic is so native he can do accents," the former employee
said. "He's been responsible for some of the agency's best operations."

Similarly, the CIA's best recruiter in one Asian country, a former operative
said, is a woman who lived the first 20 or so years of her life there. Men in
the country, though unaccustomed to dealing with women as professional equals,
"are obviously enthralled with her because she speaks their language and knows
their culture," the former operative said.

The young spy in training at CIA headquarters recalls that during a recent
vacation at a luxury hotel in Latin America, a tourist saw her in the hallway
and asked her for extra towels, assuming she was a chambermaid.

Far from being offended, she said, she was secretly pleased, knowing that her
ability to pass for a local may soon be invaluable.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              159 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 1, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Baby's Birth in America Eases Pain for Refugees; Bosnian Immigrants Welcome
Their Newest Arrival

Michael E. Ruane , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. M14

LENGTH: 1536 words



Someday, they might tell little Ahmed Sejmenovic how his mother cried the day he
got his first needle.

They might explain that, years before, her home had been burned and she had fled
from a vicious war in Bosnia and that her father had stayed behind and was never
seen again.

They might relate how, later, she and her husband had come to America with a
single suitcase; how she had cleaned hotels in Washington; and how, though she
had taken all this in stride, the thought that her new baby must endure an iota
of pain made her bow her head and weep.

They might also tell Ahmed that of all the local Bosnian children, he was the
first to be born in America.

And it would all be true.

On a hot and humid day earlier this month, a nurse gave Ahmed Sejmenovic his
first shot. His mother, Adevija, 22, dried her tears. Then she and her husband,
Edin, 24, took the new citizen home and put him in his crib in their small
apartment overlooking a parking lot.

And he slept, oblivious, for now, to his story.

Ahmed and his parents are part of a small but growing Bosnian refugee community
that has taken root in Howard County.

The immigrants, numbering about 30 families, began arriving four years ago--some
of the 105,000 Bosnians resettled by the government in the United States since
1993.

"They were looking for a safe, accepting community where they would feel
comfortable," says Bonny S. Knight of the Foreign-born Information and Referral
Service (FIRN).

And they have come, too, because, although the late Bosnian war ended for the
most part in 1995, it left their homeland economically crippled, politically
fractured and simmering with ethnic animosity.

One day, its inhabitants say, Bosnia again will be a good place to live. But it
may take decades, and many can't wait that long.

For the Sejmenovics (pronounced say-MAIN-a-vitches), the road to their
immigration was paved with few options. "We had no choice," they say of their
odyssey through war, cruelty and destruction.

The couple recently sat in their living room with Edin's visiting parents,
Dzemac, 55, and Ismija, 52, sipped tiny cups of strong Bosnian coffee and, while
Ahmed slept in the next room, told the story that he will someday hear for
himself.

Their account, largely in Serbo-Croatian, was translated by their FIRN
caseworker, Vladimirka Stanic, herself a Bosnian immigrant.

Adevija was the 16-year-old daughter of a farmer when war came to the village of
Grujcici outside the town of Srebrenica in the winter of 1993.

Nestled in a valley in eastern Bosnia near the Serbian border, the Srebrenica
area would later see some of the worst ethnic massacres of the war when Bosnian
Serb forces overran it in July 1995.

The Serbs rounded up Bosnian men of military age, executed thousands and buried
them in mass graves. About 8,000--among them Adevija's father--disappeared, and
most are feared dead. It was Europe's worst atrocity since World War II.

In snowy March 1993, however, much of that was in the future.

The Serbs already had seized Srebrenica for several weeks at the start of the
war in 1992, according to a U.N. report on the town's fall that was issued last
year. The largely Muslim Bosnian forces retook it later that year. By 1993, the
Serbs were trying to wrest it back.

As the Serbs closed in that March, Bosnian villages such as Adevija's were
evacuated, pillaged and burned.

Grujcici fell March 21. Adevija said she, her parents, two sisters and two
brothers escaped with their lives but little else. They boarded trucks with
hundreds of other refugees and were taken by the United Nations into Srebrenica
proper, already crammed with 50,000 frightened people who had little food and
water.

Evacuations from Srebrenica had begun, with the Serbs willing to permit the
departure of refugees through Serb territory to the town of Tuzla, about 50
miles to the northwest, according to the U.N. report.

But the U.N. evacuations quickly turned chaotic. On March 29, six people were
killed when hundreds tried to scramble aboard the Tuzla-bound trucks. Seven more
died en route.

Two days later, on March 31, Adevija, her mother and siblings--along with 3,000
other women, children and old men--managed to clamber aboard a second convoy of
14 U.N. trucks headed for Tuzla.

Six more people, including five children, perished from exposure or crowding,
according to the U.N. report and news accounts.

That was also the last time Adevija saw her father, Ramiz. He and most other
Bosnian males older than 13 stayed, or were kept, in Srebrenica, many to face a
grim fate two years hence.

Adevija's family survived the journey and wound up living first in a town
outside Tuzla, where they were packed into a classroom with 50 other refugees.
They would be there a year, she said, and then spend much of the next four years
in refugee settlements around Tuzla and nearby Gracanica.

Adevija attended classes and worked as a preschool teacher. One night at a local
dance, she met the tall, amiable young man who would become her husband.

He, too, had been a refugee, though he prefers not to talk much about those
days. He was 17 in 1993, and the war was on, and the whole world knows what
happened, he said: "We lost everything."

In 1995, with the couple still refugees, peace came to Bosnia, when the U.S.-led
NATO peace force arrived. But the scars of the war were slow to heal, and
opportunity, especially for young people, seemed a dream.

Still, Adevija and Edin recounted as she crocheted white lace and he sat in a
Denver Broncos T-shirt and shorts, their lives, families and friends were in
Bosnia. "My soul" is still in Bosnia, Edin said.

But the country was in ruins, and there were few decent jobs, even for the
educated. Neither Edin, his father nor brothers had work.

In 1998, Edin decided that it was time to leave. He heard that the United States
was accepting Bosnian refugees and applied to come. He told them that he also
had a girlfriend, Adevija, to whom he was deeply attached.

The Americans agreed that he could immigrate. They hesitated about his
girlfriend but proposed a solution. "If you love her so much," Adevija said they
told him, "marry her, then you can both come to the United States."

They were married April 18, 1998, and three months later were ready to go.

But leaving home, even one as damaged as Bosnia, was difficult.

"America is so far from us," said Stanic, the family's caseworker, who emigrated
from Bosnia eight years ago. "You don't have any picture of what America is,
what kind of people are here.

"I thought America was paradise," she said. "Then I realized it is not at all
paradise."

Adevija knew people who had been to America. Some said it was a good place.
Others said it wasn't. She worried. Would she be able to find a job? Would she
be able to make enough money to send some back to her family?

And, neither she nor her husband had ever been on an airplane.

In July 1998, like countless immigrants before them, the Sejmenovics attended
their huge farewell party in the Bosnian town of Tinja, where they had been
living. "Everybody from the village was there," Adevija said, "family,
neighbors, friends. Everybody." There was great celebration and many tears.

The next morning at 6, the couple--she then 20 and he 22--piled into a
neighbor's car with a lone suitcase bearing their clothes, a Bosnian coffee
grinder, and a small family photo album and left for the bus station in Zagreb,
Croatia.

They arrived arrived in Washington July 30, 1998, after flying via Vienna,
Amsterdam and New York. The couple were met at the airport by a cousin of
Edin's, checked in with an immigration agency and soon found an apartment in the
District.

Adevija got a job cleaning hotels, backbreaking work to which she was not
accustomed, and was shocked to see people begging in the streets of the
District. Edin got work in construction.

They tried to adjust. Both found American food pretty bad, except for pizza, to
which Edin took a liking. They stuck with homemade Bosnian dishes, like burek, a
kind of ground meat pie; cepavi, ground meat rolled in dough; and oven-baked,
hand-ground Bosnian coffee.

But life was difficult. "I didn't speak any English," Edin said. "That was a
problem for me. Everything was new for me. New people. Your language, number
one, is too hard."

But gradually, he learned. Soon, he and his wife found better jobs, and last
year, the immigration agency moved them to their apartment in a quiet complex
off Tamar Drive, in the Village of Long Reach.

"Right now, I look at the difference," Edin said. "I've learned English and
learned around the place. Everything goes well."

Last summer, Adevija became pregnant.

Ahmed was born at 3:31 p.m., Saturday, April 29--a 6-pound, 8-ounce American by
birth, a Bosnian by heritage, his proud grandfather insists.

It's all somewhat incredible, Adevija said: her son an American. This will be
his home. He will grow up here. This will be the place he will probably love,
just as she loved Bosnia. He may never want to leave.

Someday, though, she will tell him his story.

And then she will see what he thinks.


LOAD-DATE: June 01, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              160 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 2, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Elian Asylum Appeal Dismissed; INS Was Within Law in Not Considering Relative's
Petitions, Court Rules

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2117 words



A federal appeals panel ruled yesterday that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service acted within the law and its policymaking rights when it refused to
consider political asylum petitions filed for 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez by his
Miami great-uncle.

In a major government victory that could mark the beginning of the end of the
international custody battle that began six months ago, a three-judge panel at
the 11th U.S. Circuit in Atlanta unanimously dismissed great-uncle Lazaro
Gonzalez's appeal of a lower court ruling earlier this year. It gave him 14 days
to ask the panel to rehear it, to ask that all 12 judges of the 11th Circuit
consider it, or to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.

Under federal rules, the panel's earlier injunction prohibiting Elian from
leaving the United States remains in force until one week after that 14-day
deadline. Even if the relatives do not appeal, Elian, his father and family,
currently living on an estate in Northwest Washington, will not be able to
return to Cuba until near the end of this month. If the full appeals court or
Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, the departure prohibition could be
extended.

Attorney General Janet Reno said she was "hopeful that this matter will soon
reach final resolution," and President Clinton said he was pleased that the
Justice Department's actions in the case had been upheld.

The father's attorney, Gregory B. Craig, called on the Miami relatives to give
up their struggle to keep the young shipwreck victim from returning to Cuba and
"to accept this result with grace and dignity." Juan Miguel Gonzalez, Elian's
father, said all he wanted was "to go home as soon as possible, with my son and
my whole family."

Although attorneys for the Miami relatives said they had not yet decided how to
proceed, the relatives themselves made clear they were not ready to concede
defeat. "The battle is not over yet," said Lazaro Gonzalez's 21-year-old
daughter, Marisleysis. Elian "is still here . . . he's still in this great
country," she said, "and I hope that the laws of this country" will prevent him
from returning to a place where the relatives have alleged he will be
persecuted.

The court began its 33-page ruling saying that "this case, at first sight, seems
to be about little more than a child and his father. But, for this Court, the
case is mainly about the separation of powers under our constitutional system of
government." What they had to decide, the judges said, was how much discretion
the executive branch had in implementing applicable immigration law, and to what
extent the court could review the use of that discretion.

The court did not endorse the INS's decision not to process Elian's asylum
applications--in fact, it noted that "the choices . . . that the INS made in
this case are choices about which reasonable people can disagree." The ruling,
written by Judge J.L. Edmondson, a Reagan appointee, said the judges themselves
might personally have preferred different choices.

But, the court said, the decisions made in this case were a matter of "policy
and the application of policy," and were within the prerogatives of the
executive branch.

The court did appear to reject one determination made by the lower District
Court in Miami. In that ruling, Judge K. Michael Moore said that federal law
allowing "any alien" to apply for asylum was "evidently not intended by Congress
to include all aliens" because the law listed some exceptions.

The appeals court held that the law was "neither vague nor ambiguous. The
statute means exactly what it says: 'any alien . . . may apply for asylum.' "
But while the meaning of the word "any" was clear, yesterday's ruling said, the
statute did not define the word "apply." "From this gap" in the statute, it
said, "springs executive discretion."

The legal question in the case, it said, "is not whether the Plaintiff may apply
for asylum. . . . The ultimate inquiry, instead, is whether a six-year-old child
has applied . . . when he, or a non-parental relative on his behalf, signs and
submits a purported application against the express wishes of the child's
parent."

"We cannot say that . . . the INS determination that six-year-old children
necessarily lack sufficient capacity to assert, on their own, an asylum
claim--is unreasonable," the appeals court found. The INS decision that such an
application is valid only when it is filed by a parent "also comes within the
range of reasonable choices," it said.

On the question of whether an otherwise adequate parent can be rejected because
of where he lives, the court acknowledged that returning a child to a
"communist-totalitarian state," as defined by the State Department, "worries us
some." But, it said, "in no context is the executive branch entitled to more
deference than in the context of foreign affairs."

"Something even close to a per se rule--that, for immigration purposes, no
parent living in a totalitarian state has sufficient liberty to represent and to
serve the true, best interests of his own child in the United States--likely
would have significant consequences for the President's conduct of our Nation's
international affairs," it said. "Such a rule would not focus on the qualities
of the particular parent, but on the qualities of the government of the parent's
country."

Overall, the court said, the INS "was within the outside border of reasonable
choices. And the INS did not abuse its discretion or act arbitrarily in applying
the policy and rejecting Plaintiff's purported asylum applications."

In addressing other legal matters raised in the case, the court said the claim
that Elian's constitutional due process rights were violated by the INS decision
"lacks merit," because it has previously ruled that aliens seeking U.S.
admission have no such rights. It rejected Lazaro Gonzalez's request to name an
outside guardian to represent Elian's legal interests, saying the boy had been
"ably represented" in the appeal by Lazaro himself.

It also rejected Juan Miguel Gonzalez's request to substitute himself for Lazaro
as Elian's representative before the appeals court--a request that, if granted,
would effectively have mooted the case.

In a clear indication of the political and foreign policy overtones of the
issue, a number of major political figures yesterday issued statements on the
ruling.

Vice President Gore, who was criticized within his own party when he broke with
the administration and said the Elian matter should be decided in a family
court, repeated that position, but seemed willing to cede the matter. "I have
long felt, as I said early on, it should have been referred to a family court
and decided according to due process, which is the normal venue where disputes
like that are resolved," Gore said. "However, now that it is in the federal
court, this decision today must be accepted with respect and we all wish the boy
well."

Texas Gov. George W. Bush (R) said: "I continue to believe that it is in the
child's best interest for the decision to be made in the family courts, a court
whose job it is to decide the best interest of the child."

Neither presidential hopeful referred to a Florida family court ruling that,
under state law, Lazaro Gonzalez was too distant a relative to file a custody
suit over Elian.

Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.), who has strongly supported sending Elian back to
Cuba, said the appeals court had acted correctly. "Every mother and father knows
that parents speak for their children," Leahy said, "and this 6-year-old boy
belongs with his father."

But Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R), who represents Miami, said she remained
"cautiously optimistic about Elian's fate and the ability that the American
judicial system affords him to pursue further legal action. . . . I believe the
court's recognition of the political factors influencing the actions of the
executive branch sheds light on the use of Elian as a pawn by the Clinton
administration to appease the Castro regime."

The appeasement charge was repeated by the Miami relatives and their spokesmen,
who accused the administration of manipulating the original INS decision to stay
in good favor with Cuban President Fidel Castro. Clinton was assisted in this,
they said, by Craig, who served as Clinton's attorney in last year's impeachment
trial.

They cited the court's repeated reference to the INS decision as a matter of
policy rather than law. "I read the opinion to suggest that the court itself
thought there were a lot of close questions here," said Kendall Coffey, one of
the Miami lawyers. "I think they made it very clear that this is not about the
INS following the law."

But the ruling noted that "although the courts should not be unquestioning, we
should respect the other branches' policymaking powers." In this case, the court
said, "the INS decision did not contradict" applicable federal statute.

While they mull the possibilities of appeal, the relatives said they would
continue to press for the right to visit Elian, along with their attorneys,
physicians and a Catholic priest they described as Elian's "spiritual adviser."

Marisleysis Gonzalez said Elian's father was "afraid" to let the relatives see
him. "I think . . . they know he's going to run to us."

Armando Gutierrez, a spokesman for the relatives, said that Juan Miguel Gonzalez
had written the relatives early last month to say that he would agree to such a
meeting if the relatives would drop their legal case.

Craig acknowledged that Gonzalez had sent "a handwritten letter" to his uncle,
saying "a meeting of all members of the family was difficult when one part was
suing the other part." He said that Lazaro Gonzalez had not replied to the
letter.

"Juan Miguel Gonzalez is Elian's father," Craig said yesterday. "If they want to
talk to Elian they should approach Juan Miguel or Juan Miguel's representative
and ask to see him. They have never done that."

Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who traveled here from Havana in April with his wife and
infant son to reclaim Elian, told reporters in Spanish that he was "happy with
the court's decision. It's what I've always wanted from the bottom of my heart.
. . . What I really want now is an end to all of this, and to be able to go home
as soon as possible."

Speaking in English, Gonzalez said: "I want to thank the American people. Thank
you."

In its own statement on the ruling, the Cuban government called the 14-day
deadline for further appeals a "prolonging of the injustice and the crime," the
Associated Press reported from Havana. In what would be the largest single rally
since the custody dispute began, the government called for a march of a
half-million mothers and grandmothers to protest the delay.


Staff writers Sylvia Moreno and Ceci Connolly contributed to this report.


The Boy's Journey


Nov. 22: Elian and 12 others leave Cuba for United States aboard 16-foot motor
boat.

Nov. 23: Boat capsizes.

Nov. 25: Two passengers come ashore. Elian found on inner tube near Fort
Lauderdale.

Nov. 26: Elian turned over to great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez.

Nov. 27: Juan Miguel Gonzalez demands son's return to Cuba.

Dec. 10: Lazaro Gonzalez applies for asylum for Elian.

Dec. 31: Immigration and Naturalization Service interviews Juan Miguel Gonzalez
in Havana.

Jan. 5: INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner decides Elian "belongs with his
father" and must be returned to Cuba by Jan. 14.

Jan. 7: Lazaro Gonzalez files petition for temporary custody in state court.

Jan. 12: Attorney General Janet Reno upholds father's right to custody.

Jan. 19: Lazaro Gonzalez files federal lawsuit to challenge INS ruling.

Jan. 28: U.S. lawyers seek dismissal of relatives' federal lawsuit.


March 21: U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore dismisses federal lawsuit, a
ruling appealed to federal appeals court in Atlanta.

April 6: Juan Miguel Gonzalez leaves Cuba for United States.

April 12: Reno meets with boy's relatives in Miami but returns without the boy.

April 13: Relatives defy a government order to hand over Elian and obtain a
court order keeping him in the United States.

April 14: Justice Department asks federal court to order Elian's great-uncle to
obey the government order.

April 19: Appeals court orders that Elian be kept in the United States pending
his relatives' legal appeal.

April 22: Federal agents seize Elian in raid and reunite him with father near
Washington.

Yesterday: Appeals court rules that federal officials did not abuse their
discretion and that Elian is not entitled to political asylum hearing.


SOURCES: News services and staff reports



LOAD-DATE: June 02, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, The Washington Post

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              161 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 5, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

DIGITAL CAPITAL; An American Dream That Depends on an American Visa

Shannon Henry

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. F05

LENGTH: 937 words


Start-up entrepreneur Shaurav Sen has raised venture capital, found office space
and hired a management team.

But while he's overcome the typical challenges facing a new Internet company
chief executive, he has an additional, potentially devastating problem.

He might get kicked out of the country next month.

Sen's visa is about to expire, and he has spent the past few months frantically
putting together a package that could get him another special visa--known as
0-1--that is reserved for those who have made an "extraordinary" impact on the
American economy in the field of science, education, business, athletics or the
arts.

The package was delivered to the Immigration and Naturalization Service last
week, and an answer--which could be yes, no or a request for more
information--is expected in the next 30 days.

If the answer's no, Sen could have to leave immediately.

"It's taking a toll," says Sen on the day his application was completed. "I'm
only 31 but I have more white hair than I'd like to have."

The call to increase the number of H-1B visas--otherwise known as high-tech
visas--which let immigrants work in the country for up to six years, has become
a controversial issue. Executives say more H-1Bs are needed to fill available
tech jobs. But Sen's story points out that sometimes even the H-1B doesn't do
the trick.

"Six years is not enough in general, and in particular to people from India,"
says Sen's lawyer, Michael Maggio. He also points out that because visas
generally tie someone to a particular employer, they discourage immigrants from
starting their own businesses.

Sen has told the 10 employees of his company, AdSavers.com in Arlington, about
his visa problem. AdSavers sells advertising on individual screen
savers--ranging from simple logos to little movies. Planning for the company's
first product launch has been moving along parallel to Sen's visa process:
AdSavers is expected to debut at the end of June.

In an emotionally grueling experience, Sen has started interviewing people who
might take his place as chief executive of AdSavers. Clearly worried, Sen is
also trying to be matter-of-fact about the process, looking for a new CEO who he
thinks would fit into the company culture.

"I am mentally prepared to leave the country the first week of July," he says.

And he agreed when he took a $ 3.5 million investment from venture firm Draper
Atlantic in Reston that he would give back half of his stock in the company if
he had to leave the country, so Draper could give all or part of that stake to
the new CEO.

Sen could apply for another H-1B visa, but he would have to go back to India for
a year first.

"The company does not have a future if I have to leave for a year," says Sen.

Sen discovered the possibility of applying for the special visa when he hired
Maggio, a lawyer who focuses on immigration issues. Sen did not know about the
option, and was thinking he might be able to move to Canada to run a Canadian
office of AdSavers, though he would probably have to give up his CEO post.

Putting together the package was like applying to an Ivy League college. It
contains letters from industry experts and other well-known people, including
Sen. Charles S. Robb (D), on Sen's behalf; a copy of Sen's AdSavers patent;
transcripts from school; proof that he was compensated highly (six figures) by
previous employers; and clippings from media coverage of AdSavers. It points out
that AdSavers was able to attract $ 3.5 million from a respected venture capital
firm and employs 10 people, each of whom has a stake in the company.

Maggio says awards--such as an Emmy for an entertainer--are one way of getting
the 0-1 visa. "For the Internet world, [getting venture capital] is like winning
the Emmy," he says.

"If I have to get on a plane, I can look back and say I tried everything in my
power to legally stay in the country," says Sen.

Almost everything. Sen says many people have been asking him why he doesn't just
marry his girlfriend of two years. He says his visa problem is not a reason to
get married.

"It is something I cannot do. Because then I question the fundamentals of
getting married."

Sen came to the United States from India in 1991 for graduate school on a full
scholarship from Marquette University in Milwaukee. After graduating, he landed
in Bethesda as a junior economist at a technology company. He says he never
intended his stay in America to outlast his six-year visa, but things changed
when he came up with an idea to start a company.

A big reason he couldn't jump full-force into starting a company was that Sen
could have lost his visa entirely if he quit his job.

He conceived the idea for AdSavers one day last fall when walking by a
co-worker's computer that had a screen saver of the cartoon character Sad Sack.
"I noticed it and it didn't bother me," says Sen. "I thought maybe advertisers
would like to capitalize on that."

Sen decided that if no one had registered the domain name www.adsavers.com,
which he thought would be the logical name for such a company, he'd be in
business.

His company let him stay until he'd established AdSavers, and then had the H-1B
transferred to his new enterprise.

"I feel like telling the INS that I really stuck to the rules," says Sen. "I
know a few people who have not stuck to the rules. And others who have fake
marriages. I just wish there was another way out."

His guess on the outcome?

"My gut right now is 50-50."



Shannon Henry writes about regional technology issues every other week in Monday
Business.


LOAD-DATE: June 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              162 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 11, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

American Swagger

Helen Fessenden

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; Pg. X04

LENGTH: 557 words



BARBARIAN VIRTUES

The United States Encounters Foreign Peoples at Home and Abroad, 1876-1917

By Matthew Frye Jacobson

Hill & Wang. 324 pp. $ 30


In skewering American attitudes toward immigration and expansion a century ago,
Matthew Frye Jacobson also offers a sort of Grand Unifying Theory of American
culture. An associate professor of American Studies at Yale, the author marshals
an array of cultural sources--novels, art, newspapers and travelogues--to argue
that American attitudes toward immigration and expansionism were two sides of
the same coin.

At home, a violently xenophobic culture exploited cheap immigrant labor and
ranked non-Anglo-Saxons according to the crudest precepts of Social Darwinism.
Abroad, these racist attitudes helped justify U.S. imperialism in Latin America
and the Pacific--the natural outcome of American capitalism's hunger for raw
materials and new markets.

Jacobson's reach is ambitious, touching on everything from anti-Chinese
legislation to eugenics to the Philippines War. Some of his favorite targets are
familiar figures, such as President Theodore Roosevelt (who called the
unindustrialized world "waste spaces" and Sen. Henry Cabot Lodge (who led the
Senate drive to restrict immigration). Prominent nativists like John Commons, E.
A. Ross and Frederick Jackson Turner are also scrutinized. But even
anti-imperialists such as Mark Twain and E. L. Godkin do not get off the hook.
Such critics may have opposed expansionism, the author notes, but they really
feared that imperialism would corrode American values. In Jacobson's eyes, this
criticism "was inherently imperialist in that it identified not [for example]
Filipinos but Americans . . . as the real victims of expansion and violent
dispossession."

As such language suggests, Barbarian Virtues reads more like an angry j'accuse
than a scholarly study. Jacobson's work brings with it all the disadvantages of
an academic discipline--American Studies--that is neither fish nor fowl. The
book lacks both the empirical richness of an original historical study and the
analytic rigor of good political science. And since his sources are mostly
secondary, he offers little that is new. Worse, Jacobson waits until the last
four pages before explaining his own motive for writing this book--namely, to
battle against America's "desperately parochial understanding of the world's
peoples." For him, modern America has tamed neither the imperialist itch nor the
nativist paranoia that drives the immigration debate.

Alas, Jacobson provides only a smattering of examples to back up this
provocative charge. He mentions the Korean and Vietnam wars as natural
extensions of the imperialist Philippines campaign but leaves the reader
guessing as to how other conflicts, from World War II to Kosovo, might apply. He
also gives the current immigration debate cursory treatment, tossing out the
names of Patrick Buchanan and former California governor Pete Wilson but failing
to mention Buchanan's increasingly marginal status or the undoing of Wilson's
Republican Party at the hands of immigrant--and nonimmigrant--voters.

In the end, Jacobson's strident moralizing will make even the most liberal
readers ready to side with Ollie North.


Helen Fessenden is an associate editor at Foreign Affairs magazine.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              163 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 16, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Miami Relatives Ask Court to Overturn Elian Ruling

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 904 words


Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives asked a federal appeals court yesterday to
reconsider its ruling two weeks ago that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service had the right to refuse a political asylum hearing they requested for
the 6-year-old shipwreck victim.

The petition to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta means that
Elian and his father are not likely to return to Cuba next week, as they had
hoped.

The court asked the Justice Department and Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
to respond jointly to the relatives' petition by next Tuesday, after which the
entire 12-judge circuit will decide whether to rehear the case. A three-judge
panel decided unanimously in the government's favor on June 1. Attorney General
Janet Reno said yesterday she hoped "that the matter could be considered and
ruled upon promptly."

In the meantime, an earlier injunction preventing Elian from leaving the country
remains in force. The Cuban Foreign Ministry, in a statement issued in Havana,
called the new petition part of the relatives' "maneuvers . . . to make that boy
lose his identity."

Spencer Eig, one of the relatives' attorneys, suggested at a Miami news
conference yesterday morning that the father use the additional time "to get out
of Washington and travel around the United States. . . . Then maybe Juan Miguel
could find a place in this great and beautiful land where he would like to live.
And then he won't have to force Elian back into the hands of [President Fidel]
Castro and Cuba and endanger Elian's life."

Late last month, the Gonzalez entourage--including Elian and his father,
stepmother and infant half-brother, as well as four Cuban schoolmates, their
parents and a teacher, moved to an estate in Northwest Washington's Cleveland
Park from Maryland's Eastern Shore, where they had stayed since shortly after
federal agents seized the boy in Miami in April. U.S. marshals guard the family
and ensure compliance with the injunction forbidding Elian's departure.

In private conversations yesterday, the Miami relatives' attorneys expressed
little optimism they would prevail in the appeals court. Their hopes are pinned
instead on the next step, the U.S. Supreme Court, and the issues in yesterday's
petition were framed to attract the highest court's interest. However the full
11th Circuit disposes of the case, either side can appeal to the Supreme Court.

Yesterday's petition is the latest round in the relatives' nearly seven-month
legal battle to keep Elian in this country. It began when he was rescued on Nov.
25 from a migrant shipwreck in which his mother drowned, and the INS temporarily
placed him with his Miami great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez. His father has
consistently said he wants to return with his son to Cuba, and in January the
INS ruled that only the father had the right to make immigration decisions for
Elian.

The Miami relatives, who have accused the INS of bending its own rules to
accommodate Clinton administration foreign policy, have lost three successive
court battles to keep Elian in the United States. In March, a state family court
in Florida ruled it had no jurisdiction over the case, and that Lazaro Gonzalez
had no standing to ask for custody of the boy.

That same month, a federal district judge said the INS had acted within the law
and its own guidelines in refusing to consider political asylum applications
filed by the relatives on Elian's behalf, against his father's will. The
three-judge appeals panel upheld that ruling, and gave the relatives two weeks
to apply for a rehearing before the full 11th Circuit.

The principal argument in yesterday's petition is that the broad deference that
the appeals panel said courts must give INS to interpret its own rules was
narrowed by a Supreme Court decision issued May 1 in an unrelated case.

In Christensen v. Harris County, the Supreme Court ruled last month that federal
labor law did not prevent a public employer from forcing employees to use
compensatory time they had accrued. In one part of the decision, the court ruled
that an "opinion letter" sent by the federal Labor Department to the county
during the course of the dispute did not have the force of law and thus should
not be given the same judicial deference as more formal administrative
rulemaking.

The relatives' attorneys noted that the appeals panel in the Gonzalez case had
made clear it did not necessarily agree with decisions INS had made, but said it
was required to show deference to the federal agency as long as it had not acted
capriciously. The new Supreme Court decision, yesterday's petition argued,
narrowed the scope of that deference. INS decisions in the case, it said,
amounted to "opinions" that were subject to court review.

The appeals panel's "error" in not considering the new Supreme Court ruling
"undeniably affected the outcome of this case," the rehearing petition said. At
the same time, it said, "The extraordinary importance of this individual
case,--to the United States, to the Administration's foreign policy and dealings
with Cuba, to the Cuban-American community, to the American citizenry more
broadly, and to the Gonzalez family--is too obvious to require extended
discussion."

The petition in Atlanta was submitted by two new members of the relatives' legal
team, Brett M. Kavanaugh and Jeffrey B. Clark, of the Washington firm Kirkland &
Ellis.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              164 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 17, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Immigration 'Gone Awry'

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 222 words


"An American Dream That Depends on an American Visa" [Business, June 5], about
the plight of Indian entrepreneur Shaurav Sen, probably was meant to tug at the
heartstrings: gifted foreigner doing important creative work is thwarted in his
efforts to remain in the United States. Instead I read further evidence of our
immigration policy gone haywire.

Mr. Sen came to this country on a student visa, a recipient of a full
scholarship to an American college. He signed a pledge that he would return home
upon graduation. After all, isn't that the noble goal of such scholarships: to
empower talented people from developing countries so they may use their know-how
when they return to their homelands?

Instead, Mr. Sen violated his pledge and went to work developing advertisements
for the Internet. Alas, he has a problem with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. His solution is to reapply for an O-1 visa, a category "reserved for
those who have made an 'extraordinary' impact on the American economy in the
field of science, education, business, athletics or the arts." Since when does
providing ads on the Internet constitute an extraordinary impact?

Mr. Sen obviously has entrepreneurial talents. He should return to India and use
them to benefit his people.

TIM AARONSON

El Cerrito, Calif.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration, BARRIE MAGUIRE

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              165 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 20, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Cuba Delays Talks on Immigration, Citing Elian Case

Karen DeYoung; Eric Pianin , Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 776 words


Cuba has indefinitely postponed an upcoming round of biannual migration talks
with the United States, citing its "preoccupation with the return of Elian
Gonzalez as the reason," the State Department said yesterday.

The talks, held twice yearly under agreements signed by Havana and Washington in
1994 and 1995 to regularize the flow of Cuban immigrants to this country, were
due to begin in New York on June 27. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher
said the United States had told Cuba it "strenuously objected to the last-minute
postponement," signaled by Havana Friday.

Fernando Remirez, head of the Cuban Interests Section here, confirmed yesterday
that officials in Havana felt it was "very difficult to engage in talks while
[the Elian] issue is pending." But, he said, Cuba does not intend the
postponement as a protest, and emphasized that "we are very committed to the
immigration agreements and want to continue" the discussions.

In addition to the continued legal delays in sending the 6-year-old shipwreck
victim home, U.S. officials speculated that Havana is preoccupied with the
uncertain fate of congressional proposals for easing U.S. economic sanctions
against the island.

A measure to loosen long-standing restrictions on sales of food and medicine to
Cuba has passed the Senate, but it is embroiled in a fierce House debate that
has pitted the anti-sanctions GOP leadership against farm-state Republicans
joined with liberal Democrats and church and humanitarian groups.

A fiscal 2001 agricultural spending bill has been held in limbo for weeks since
anti-sanctions Republicans succeeded in attaching a measure prohibiting
unilateral restrictions on U.S. food and medicine sales to Cuba and several
other countries. House Majority Whip Tom DeLay (R-Tex.) failed last month in an
effort to strike the measure from the bill, and attempts to find a compromise
have failed.

Rep. George R. Nethercutt (R-Wash.), the sponsor of the anti-sanctions language,
contends he has enough votes to block the agriculture spending bill unless he
and his allies prevail, and a Nethercutt spokesman said yesterday that he was on
the verge of an agreement with the House leadership. "We have a very bright
future for the idea of sanctions relief this session," said spokesman Tom
McArthur. "It looks like it will happen sooner than later."

Among possible compromises cited were provisions for cash-only sales and
continuing restrictions on government or commercial credits for Cuba, along with
prohibitions against barter arrangements that would allow Cuban imports to enter
this country.

But Cuban American members of Congress and lobbyists against the measure
insisted that a compromise is still far away, and said they will not yield on
their basic insistence that sanctions be kept in place. "There is no solid or
tentative agreement," a spokesman for DeLay said.

A leadership aide added: "For [Nethercutt] to declare victory is laughable."

Remirez, Cuba's chief diplomat here, said it is "difficult not to have
expectations" that attitudes in Washington toward Cuba are shifting. But he
insisted that postponement of the New York talks was related only to the Elian
issue.

Under the bilateral migration accords, the United States agreed to discourage
migrants arriving illegally, to allow at least 20,000 Cubans to immigrate
legally each year, and to return to Cuba all those found at sea who cannot
demonstrate a legitimate fear of persecution. So far this year, 484 Cubans have
been picked up by the U.S. Coast Guard in the Florida Straits, compared with
1,463 for all of 1999. Most have been returned to Cuba.

For its part, Cuba agreed to patrol its waters to discourage illegal departures,
to facilitate the departure of those who qualified for legal migration, and not
to take reprisals against those who are returned. The two governments also
agreed to cooperate on the safe interdiction of illegal migrants at sea. Several
months ago, a U.S. Coast Guard officer was permanently stationed at the U.S.
diplomatic mission in Havana.

The biannual talks provide an opportunity to discuss and complain about
implementation of the accords. In recent sessions, the United States has charged
that Cuba has restricted the legal departure of trained professionals, as well
as the families of individuals who have left illegally.

Cuba has said that a de facto U.S. policy of allowing entry to all illegal
migrants who manage to make it to U.S. soil--the so-called wet-feet, dry-feet
policy--is a violation of the agreements and encourages the illegal migration
that the accords were designed to curtail.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              166 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 20, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

NFL NOTES; Sharpe May Be Deported

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D03

LENGTH: 126 words


Former Cardinals lineman Luis Sharpe was released from an Arizona prison
yesterday after serving a brief sentence on a drug charge.

However, the Department of Corrections turned Sharpe, a Cuban citizen, over to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The INS can detain anyone convicted
in a broad group of crimes while it decides whether to seek deportation.

Sharpe, 40, was sentenced to six months in state prison in early March after
pleading guilty to possession of drugs and drug paraphernalia.


* SHEPHERD TO DOLPHINS: The Dolphins signed free agent WR Leslie Shepherd, who
played for the Browns last season. Shepherd spent his first five seasons in the
league with the Redskins. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.



LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              167 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 22, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

Trouble Getting Out of Africa; Immigration Effort Hits 5-Year Mark

William Branigin , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - VA; Pg. V01

LENGTH: 805 words


They first caught each other's eye at a teacher training session in a suburb of
Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe. It was late 1993. He was a newly arrived Peace
Corps volunteer, she a Zimbabwean student-teacher on her way to a rural school.

Mark Forror and Sophia Masvaure next saw each other on a group canoe trip, and
later when he traveled to Mutare, her home town, for supplies.

Gradually, their relationship deepened. With Forror's two-year tour nearing an
end, they got engaged and made plans to marry in the United States. Forror, an
Alexandria resident, applied for a visa for his bride-to-be, a process he
expected would take a few months.

Instead, five years have passed, with the couple separated not only by an ocean
but by what the 38-year-old Forror describes as a bureaucratic morass worthy of
Kafka. Visa applications and follow-up letters have been lost or ignored, he
said, then refiled only to meet with more obstacles and demands for still more
forms. Even though the couple married during a trip Forror made to Zimbabwe in
January 1999, their plans to build a life together remained on hold
indefinitely.

Now, an end to their ordeal appears in sight. Following inquiries about their
case from a reporter, the Immigration and Naturalization Service issued a
special waiver last week for Masvaure, 29, clearing away what officials said was
the last obstacle for a visa.

Forror says he'll believe it when he sees her on this side of the Atlantic.

"It's kind of like being at war and then coming home," he said. "You're glad to
be alive, but you don't feel that great about it. . . . I won't really feel any
relief about this until I see her walking through that jet-way door."

Forror, who edits a business magazine in suburban Maryland, blames the long wait
for a visa on an "unwritten rule that as few Africans as possible should be let
into the country. This is not a case of simple bureaucratic snafuing. After five
years of this, I'm certain it's deliberate."

The State Department, whose consular offices issue visas overseas, and the INS,
which rules on requests for immigrant visas, deny any bias against Africans.

"It is categorically untrue that the United States government in any way wants
to discourage or prohibit the citizens of African nations from immigrating,"
said Christopher Lamora, a spokesman for the State Department's consular affairs
bureau. An INS spokesman, Russ Bergeron, acknowledged that "the process can be
slow" because of the number of applications and other factors, but he said
nationality and race play no role.

Lending urgency to Forror's quest is the growing instability in Zimbabwe, whose
economy is crumbling and where violence is rising between supporters and
opponents of President Robert Mugabe. In a letter to her husband last month,
Masvaure said clashes between the two sides were intensifying. "Things are
getting worse here. I don't want you to worry about me because I will make sure
I stay away from danger," she wrote. "I still have a whole life ahead of me with
you, and so I will be careful."

Noting that the Peace Corps has withdrawn its teachers from Zimbabwe, Masvaure
wrote: "Teachers are being beaten up, and so far two headmasters have
disappeared. . . . I just pray that our school will not be invaded."

But even as Masvaure has tried to steer clear of the civil strife gripping her
country, she was unable to avoid a far more deadly menace. The blood test
required for a visa came back positive for HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

Forror and his wife believe she was infected by a dirty needle at her doctor's
office during treatment for malaria. Although a quarter of Zimbabwe's population
is HIV-positive--the highest infection rate in Africa--Masvaure's case was all
the more shocking because she was the AIDS awareness instructor at her school.

The blood test loomed as the last barrier to Masvaure's immigrant visa. Under a
1993 law, Congress barred the admission of foreigners with HIV or AIDS, allowing
exceptions only for those who could show they would not endanger public health
or burden U.S. taxpayers. Paradoxically, in 1996 the government recognized HIV
infection as possible grounds for political asylum for foreigners already in the
United States.

Forror fears for his wife's well-being. "She's going to die if she doesn't get
treatment," he said, adding that there was never any obstacle to her INS waiver
since she will be covered by his insurance.

As the months, then years, went by with no resolution, Forror said, he became
convinced that officials were hoping the couple would give up. Instead, he said,
the ordeal strengthened their resolve.

"We've been lucky in a way," he said. "We've been so angered by the way we've
been treated that it has brought us closer together."



LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              168 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 26, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

A Border With No Patrol

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 150 words


The June 21 front-page article about the behavior of Arizona ranchers toward
illegal Mexican immigrants along the border between Cochise County, Ariz., and
the state of Sonora, Mexico, focuses on the wrong parties.

Both the Barnett family and the immigrants are doing what is in their
self-interest. The Barnetts are tired of paying for fences and of the threat
posed by unknown persons traipsing across their property. The Mexican immigrants
merely want to partake in the opportunities afforded by the strong U.S. economy.

What is needed from Washington is either a commitment to enforce its
international borders or an admission that it has no intention of doing so.
Congress ought to get busy with its responsibilities under Article 1 of the
Constitution--i.e., providing for the general defense and the common welfare of
its citizens.

ADAM C. DOTTLE

Fort Belvoir




LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              169 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 29, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 417 words


Archbishop Held Hostage In San Antonio Office


SAN ANTONIO--A man seeking help for an immigration problem and claiming to have
a hand grenade took Archbishop Patrick Flores hostage in his office for nine
hours before releasing him last night.

The Roman Catholic clergyman appeared to be unharmed as he was escorted out of
his office by police and placed on a stretcher.

"Obviously, we're very pleased with the outcome of this," Police Chief Al
Philippus said. "God came down and really smiled on us and wrapped his arms
around the situation."

Philippus identified the suspect as 40-year-old Nelson Antonio Escolero. The El
Salvador native, a legal resident of the United States, was upset over his
possible deportation for driving with a suspended license, authorities said.

Escolero allowed Flores to go free, then placed the grenade-like device on a
table and walked out when authorities faxed him the immigration status papers he
had requested, Philippus said.

Flores, a native Texan, is the highest-ranking Mexican American bishop in the
Catholic Church and became the first Mexican American bishop in the United
States when he was named auxiliary bishop in San Antonio in 1970.


* VIEQUES, Puerto Rico--The U.S. Navy concluded its exercises on Vieques Island
after three days of bombing that sparked protests and ended with scores of
activists arrested and four Navy personnel reported injured.

* CLAYTON, Mo.--A man who sawed down a sign designating a stretch of highway as
adopted by the Ku Klux Klan has been fined $ 100. Christopher Bellers sawed down
the sign Feb. 10--just hours after it was installed--unaware that state troopers
had staked it out. "I was angry over what the sign represented," Bellers, 22,
told a jury Tuesday.

* FAIRBANKS, Alaska--Dry, hot weather over recent days has helped wildfires in
Alaska's interior grow substantially, state and federal officials reported. The
biggest, the Zitziana fire near Manley, was estimated at 60,000 acres yesterday,
up from the 8,000 acres the previous day.

* SEATTLE--A man with a handgun shot and killed another man, then killed himself
in a private office at the University of Washington Health Sciences Building,
campus police said. It was not known what led to the shooting.

* LOS ANGELES--Coroner's investigators broke open a concrete slab and found the
entombed body of a little girl believed to be the missing 3-year-old daughter of
a couple arrested in connection with her death.



LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              170 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 2, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Cuba Vows To Continue Elian Rallies; Focus to Turn to Trade, Immigration

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, July 1


The Cuban government unveiled its plans today for the "post-Elian" battle
against the United States, claiming the support of world opinion and a majority
of Americans in its opposition to U.S. immigration and trade policies toward the
island.

Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque announced that the mass Elian rallies that
have been held in a different city around the country each Saturday since
December would continue indefinitely, along with round-table discussions among
senior government members and Communist Party faithful broadcast live every
weekday afternoon. But instead of Elian, the focus will be on trade and
immigration.

"What's going to happen now that the boy is back home?" Perez Roque asked a
crowd of more than 250,000 at this morning's rally in the southern city of
Manzanillo. "We're going to continue the struggle with more force than ever
against the causes that led to the cruel kidnapping of Elian Gonzalez."

Today's rally marked the culmination of intense government discussions over the
past several weeks on how to channel public emotion over the 6-year-old's plight
into the more familiar propaganda against the decades-old U.S. trade embargo and
the Cuban Adjustment Act.

Havana maintains that the 1996 law, which grants special immigration privileges
to Cubans, encourages them to flee the country.

It is always difficult to gauge reaction to government pronouncements here
beyond the enthusiastic crowds bused in for official events such as this
morning's in Manzanillo. Havana residents seemed to go about their usual
Saturday business, and satisfaction expressed over Elian's return last week
appeared matched by relief that the daily round-table discussions would be
reduced from three hours to 1 hour 45 minutes and would preempt regular
programming on only one of Cuba's two television stations.

President Fidel Castro did not attend the rally, spending the morning instead at
a graduation ceremony for military students. The ceremony was held in an
amphitheater that was specially constructed for Elian rallies facing the U.S.
Interests Section, along the Havana waterfront.

But in a message read at the Manzanillo rally, Castro said: "It has only been a
few hours since the emotional homecoming of Elian and [his father] Juan Miguel .
. . and the renewal of our ceaseless struggle into a new, extended phase. We are
not people who rest on our laurels or flaunt our victories."

"We don't care who becomes the next U.S. president," he said. "None of the
aspirants inspires confidence in us. It's useless for them to try to win a few
voters by investing unnecessary time in declarations and promises against Cuba.
. . . Four decades of underestimation and humiliating failure should be enough"
for Washington to realize that "Cuba was, is and will continue to be free
forever."

Cuba carefully monitored U.S. public opinion throughout Elian's seven months in
the United States. Repeated statements noted with approval U.S. polls indicating
that the majority of Americans favored the boy's return to Cuba, including as
many as 90 percent of African Americans, and that the tide of opinion had begun
to turn against U.S. sanctions.

Government media have given extensive coverage to the U.S. controversy over the
death penalty and described condemned or recently executed African Americans as
revolutionary martyrs. A surprise guest at today's rally was Mazia Jamal, the
son of Mumia Abu-Jamal, whose death sentence in connection with the 1981 killing
of a Philadelphia policeman has become a cause celebre among anti-capital
punishment activists in the United States.

"I feel sad to live in a nation that claims to have been created in the name of
freedom," Jamal told the cheering crowd.


LOAD-DATE: July 02, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              171 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 4, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Naturalization: An Unnatural Process

Philip P. Pan , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 4411 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Amid the aging tenements of the Lower East Side, on the second floor of the
Streit's Matzo factory, Domingo Pena stands in a room thick with the sweet aroma
of baking dough, his white-gloved hands feeding bundle after bundle of freshly
baked bread into a growling machine that spits them out in blue cardboard boxes.

Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe once held every job at this factory, but
Pena, like many workers here today, speaks Spanish, not Yiddish. Raising his
voice over the roaring ovens, he explains that he emigrated from the Dominican
Republic 22 years ago and has worked at Streit's the past 14 years. He and his
wife live comfortably nearby, raising three young girls who were born in this
country. And each of Pena's 10 siblings has joined him in New York, too.

"This is my home now," he says.

But if Pena has built an American life for himself on the Lower East Side like
generations of European immigrants, he has yet to take a step many of them took
quickly: become a citizen of the United States.

Nearly four in five Latino immigrants are not U.S. citizens, according to the
Census Bureau, far more than among immigrants of other ethnicities. Some are not
eligible to naturalize because they entered the country illegally or have not
lived here long enough. But many, like Pena, are longtime residents who have not
applied for citizenship.

A new survey of the nation's Hispanic population conducted by The Washington
Post, in collaboration with the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard
University, contradicts the long-held view that immigrants from Latin America
are slow to seek citizenship because they maintain strong ties to their
homelands--countries that are often only a quick flight or bus ride away.
Instead, the survey identifies another explanation: the U.S. government's
cumbersome naturalization process.

It is simply more difficult for immigrants like Pena to become citizens than it
was for many of their European predecessors a hundred years ago.

"I'd like to do it someday. It's important to me," Pena says of becoming a
citizen. "But it's too complicated, too expensive, too difficult. I've heard all
about the delays and the problems."

Among those Latinos surveyed who were eligible for citizenship and gave a reason
why they had not applied for it, nearly 40 percent echoed Pena and said they
were deterred by some aspect of the citizenship process. By comparison, less
than 20 percent gave a reason related to their desire to return home or their
ties to their native countries.

The poll also found that the vast majority of Hispanic immigrants want to become
citizens; only 12 percent said they had no plans to naturalize at all.

But, in the survey and in interviews, Latino immigrants listed a number of
obstacles that discouraged them from seeking citizenship: the complexity of the
application forms, the difficulty of the required English and history exams, an
application fee that has quadrupled in the past decade and a staggering backlog
that has caused long processing delays.

By contrast, the Irish and German immigrants who made their homes on the Lower
East Side during the late 19th century--and many of the Jews from Russia, Poland
and elsewhere in Eastern Europe who packed the neighborhood after
them--encountered none of those difficulties.

Back then, naturalization was a local responsibility, and political machines
routinely pursued votes by running "naturalization mills" that turned fresh
immigrants into citizens, often by bending or breaking the law.

In New York, the bosses of Tammany Hall ushered hundreds of thousands on the
Lower East Side and elsewhere into citizenship, sometimes distributing tickets
at saloons that read, "Please naturalize the bearer." The machine paid court
fees and provided witnesses to testify that immigrants had been in the country
the required five years. Sometimes, usually before crucial elections, immigrants
were sworn in as citizens the day they arrived.

The formal requirements for citizenship that did exist were minimal: five years
of continual U.S. residence, good moral character and a willingness to renounce
former loyalties and swear to support the Constitution. (Chinese and some other
Asian immigrants, though, were excluded by federal law from citizenship between
1882 and 1943.)

After the turn of the century, a nativist backlash against immigration and a
reformist campaign against the corrupt machines led Congress to tighten
naturalization procedures. In 1906, lawmakers established federal control--and
for the first time required that immigrants speak English before becoming
citizens.

During the decades that followed, Congress added layer after layer of other
requirements.

Today, as another historic tide of immigrants transforms the Lower East Side and
neighborhoods like it across the country, Pena faces a path to citizenship very
different from the one that met his predecessors at the matzo factory.

It begins with a four-page application form, available only in English, that
asks him a dizzying array of questions, including whether he was born of a noble
family, has ever associated with Communists or advocates polygamy.

Pena must submit the form with a $ 250 check, and perhaps copies of divorce
papers, military service certificates, child-support orders and arrest records.
Then, he must wait as long as four years to see an examiner of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In the meantime, he must be fingerprinted for a criminal background check by the
FBI at least once, and perhaps two or three times if the process drags on.

When summoned to the INS, he must demonstrate he can speak, read and write
English, and pass a test in U.S. history and government that might ask the names
the 13 original colonies or the number of amendments to the Constitution or the
name of the man who penned the "Star-Spangled Banner." Finally, he might be
asked to provide years' worth of tax returns or a letter from a church.

"For many people, it's just too much," Pena says.

Each of his 10 brothers and sisters are also eligible for citizenship. But only
two have applied. One sister made it and was sworn in. Another is waiting to
hear from the INS, three years after she submitted her paperwork.

Critics of immigration see the low rate of Latino citizenship as a troubling
sign that immigrants today are refusing to integrate into U.S. society as they
did a century ago. They complain about a population of foreigners who prosper in
this country, yet refuse to swear allegiance to it.

Hispanic activists are also concerned about the low citizenship rate. Many
consider it the single greatest barrier to Latino political empowerment, and
they worry about the disenfranchisement of entire communities who live, work and
pay taxes in this country.

Numbering more than 9 million, these Latinos do not have the right to vote or
serve on juries. They are ineligible for many government jobs and benefits. And
they face the threat of deportation for even minor crimes.

A hundred years ago, ward bosses and precinct captains prowled immigrant
neighborhoods, hunting for votes. Tammany boss Richard Croker put it this way:
"Think of the hundreds of thousands of foreigners dumped into our city. . . .
They are alone, ignorant strangers . . . and Tammany looks after them for the
sake of their votes, grafts them upon the Republic, makes citizens of them in
short."

But Pena says no political worker, Democrat or Republican, has ever visited his
home or offered to help him become a citizen. He knows nothing of the few
citizenship and English classes in his neighborhood. So he has drawn his own
conclusions about what his adopted homeland thinks of Latinos and citizenship.

"People don't want Latinos to have citizenship," he says. "That's why they make
it so difficult."

Walk around the Lower East Side--or "Loisaida," as many residents now call
it--and it's easy to find people willing to tell you about their troubles trying
to become a citizen. At the Cibao Restaurant, where the seal of the Dominican
Republic hangs on a back wall and the jukebox starts and ends with merengue,
owner Milagro Acosta begins her story even before she removes her apron and
makes it out from behind the counter.

Her restaurant, named after the Dominican Republic's second-largest city, is
something of a neighborhood institution, anchoring the corner of Rivington and
Clinton for nearly two decades, ever since Acosta opened it after arriving in
New York. Over the years, she has hosted U.S. senators and representatives,
sharing the concerns of a small-business woman over sopa de pollo and carne
guisada.

In 1997, Acosta applied for citizenship because "I'd been here so long, and this
country had been good to me."

But as her appointment with the INS approached--after a wait of more than a
year--one of Acosta's relatives died in the Dominican Republic, and she traveled
there for the funeral. She tried to postpone the INS appointment, but she was
lost in a maze of voice mail. Later, she wrote a letter requesting a new
appointment. She never received a response.

So, Acosta gave up. Will she apply again? "Maybe someday," she says, shrugging.
"But everybody knows the wait is much longer now."

The INS has made progress reducing a backlog of citizenship applications that
climbed to nearly 2 million nationwide in 1999, but new applicants today still
must wait 12 months on average to become a citizen. In Washington and Baltimore,
applicants are told to expect a wait of 12 to 18 months. And in New York,
applicants are told the average wait is longer than three years.

At the 189 Allen Street Senior Center, walking distance from the Cibao
Restaurant, some of the students in Elueteria Urena's crowded citizenship class
worry if they'll survive the process.

The elderly women hush as classmate Maria Moronta, 62, describes how she and her
husband applied for citizenship in 1997, about 17 years after they emigrated
from the Dominican Republic. The couple waited as the INS made its way through
the backlog. But in December, her husband passed away. "He died waiting to
become a citizen," she says.

Those who make it through the backlog encounter other problems.

Margarita Garcia, 33, a Lower East Side bookkeeper, says she waited three years
for her appointment with the INS. But when she showed up last year, the INS
rejected her application--and told her to start over.

The INS examiner noted that Garcia was eligible for citizenship when she
applied, because she was married to a U.S. citizen and had lived in the country
three years. But during the three-year wait for the appointment, she and her
husband separated, and the INS rejected the application on that basis.

Garcia argued that they had not divorced and that, in any case, she had already
been in the country six years by the time of her appointment--more than the five
years required of immigrants who aren't married to citizens. The examiner
wouldn't budge.

"So, I had to apply again. . . . It took three years last time. Who knows how
many years it will take now?" she says.

Several blocks from an English class that Garcia is attending, a Hispanic
construction crew is putting down new floors in a Lower East Side apartment
building. Ask the foreman if any of his men are citizens, and he scratches his
head. None of them has naturalized, he says, though many are eligible.

"Everyone knows how the process is," says foreman Fernando Lopez, 40.
"Sometimes, you wait and wait and wait, and you never hear anything."

Lopez himself isn't a citizen, though he has lived on the Lower East Side more
than 18 years. A native of Colombia, he applied in 1998 and was summoned for his
exam a year later. He passed the tests, but then the INS inquired about a
15-year-old arrest in California on a charge of disorderly conduct.

Lopez explained that the charge was minor and had never been prosecuted, but the
INS requested proof that it had not resulted in a conviction and gave him a
month to produce it.

So, Lopez began making phone calls, sending letters to court officials on the
West Coast, trying to track down a copy of a case file long ago placed on
microfilm. Finally, days before the INS deadline, an envelope arrived--with the
wrong records. Lopez asked for an extension, but the INS said no and rejected
his application.

"They definitely make it too hard," he says. "But I guess I'll apply again."

The Post/Kaiser/Harvard survey found that a majority of Latinos in the process
of applying for citizenship had a low opinion of the INS. About 61 percent said
they had an unfavorable view of the INS, compared with 45 percent of those who
had not applied.

"The fact is it's an incredibly bureaucratic and lengthy process," says Michael
Jones-Correa, a Harvard government professor and the author of "Between Two
Nations," a study of citizenship among Hispanics in New York City. "The changes
put in place in 1906 were designed to move the process away from the machines,
to make it less corrupt--and also to make it more difficult. In effect, we have
a system that dates back to a time when the government was interested in
restricting access to citizenship."

The survey found that the cost of the application also deters immigrants from
seeking citizenship. A century ago, it cost as little as a dollar or two to
apply for naturalization in some cities. In 1990, the fee was $ 60. In 1991, it
went up to $ 90. Last year, the INS raised the rate again, to $ 225, plus a $ 25
fingerprinting fee.

Of those immigrants who had not applied for citizenship because of a barrier in
the process, nearly a quarter cited the application fee.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner says the $ 250 fee is high but reasonable,
considering that Congress requires that the naturalization process pay for
itself. The agency had been charging too little, she says, and that aggravated
the backlog in applications.

Overall, Meissner argues that the INS has made "vast improvements" in the
naturalization process in recent years, even as record numbers of immigrants
have swamped the agency seeking citizenship.

"This agency had been very, very backward. We had very little in the way of
automation, very little in the way of a customer-oriented outlook," she says.
"But I think that's changing. We've worked very, very hard to bring
modernization and streamlined procedures to this work. . . . We want to do
everything we can to make immigrants feel naturalization is accessible."

Two years ago, Meissner says, the INS installed a new computer system that
sharply reduced the errors that forced applicants to submit to fingerprinting
more than once. In addition, the agency began accepting citizenship applications
by mail and replying with letters of confirmation. Previously, applicants had to
wait in line and drop off their forms in person.

The INS also published a new, simpler guide to naturalization, started a Web
site and launched an automated toll-free number that applicants can use to
notify the agency of a change of address. Most importantly, Meissner says, the
agency is on track to reduce the average wait for citizenship to six months by
the end of September.

"The system has been difficult to penetrate in the past, but we've made
substantial progress," she says.

The number one obstacle cited by Latinos in the Post/Kaiser/Harvard survey was
the requirement that they speak, read and write English. Half of those who named
a problem with the naturalization process said the English requirement was the
reason they had not applied for citizenship.

In 1950, Congress required applicants to demonstrate they can read and write
"simple words and phrases" in English. But "simple" is interpreted differently
by different INS examiners. Applicants complain that makes it difficult to
prepare for the test: A spelling error or pronunciation difficulty overlooked by
one examiner could be grounds for rejection by another.

Others argue that the English literacy requirement is too onerous, especially
for immigrants who cannot read or write even in Spanish. Some compare it to the
voter literacy tests that various states once used to bar blacks from voting.

"The problem is the arbitrariness. You have examiners with heavy caseloads
exercising tremendous discretion," says Harry Pachon, director of the Tomas
Rivera Policy Institute, a think tank that studies the Latino population.
"Heaven forbid they don't like you."

Meissner acknowledges that inconsistency in the testing process is a problem,
and she says the agency is preparing to overhaul its testing procedures. But she
argues that the English requirement is "fair and legitimate," considering how
important English is to success in this country. In addition, she notes that
immigrants are expected to demonstrate proficiency only at a sixth-grade level.

English was not required at all of new citizens during much of the nation's
first wave of immigration, and only spoken English was required in 1906.

At the time, the Lower East Side was a neighborhood full of sweatshops and
tenements, a place so crowded that historians believe the population density on
some streets has never been matched anywhere else on Earth.

Responding to this wave of newcomers, the New York City Board of Education ran
English classes three or four nights a week in the public schools, classes that
a majority of adult Jewish immigrants of that era attended at one point or
another, according to Yiddish newspaper accounts. Pioneering social service
organizations known as settlement houses offered English classes as well.

But today, Latino immigrants in the same neighborhood who want to learn English
have more limited options, community activists say.

The Board of Education no longer offers English classes at night in the
neighborhood. The settlement houses are still running, but dwindling resources
have meant cutbacks, and many of their English classes are oversubscribed.

At University Settlement, the neighborhood's first settlement house, founded in
1886, manager Melissa Nieves thumbs through a notebook listing people who are
waiting to get into an English class. "There are hundreds and hundreds," she
says. "And when we call them, sometimes the classes don't match their schedules
and they have to keep waiting."

Because of limited funds, she says, the organization offers only seven classes,
all of them during the day.

Jim Claffey, advocacy director for the New York Immigration Coalition, says the
availability of English classes in New York City has dropped by nearly a quarter
since 1993, and the average wait for a seat in a class now stretches more than a
year.

Yet the Board of Education offers adult English classes in only five locations
citywide, accommodating 1,500 students each semester. This in a city where a
third of the residents, or more than 2 million people, are immigrants.

"There's more demand today than a hundred years ago, but fewer classes
available," Claffey says. "It's really reached serious proportions. Students are
literally begging to get in classes. It's a horrendous situation."

The federal government devotes relatively few resources to helping immigrants
become citizens or promoting citizenship.

Traditionally, the INS has eschewed citizenship promotion, taking the position
that naturalization is a personal choice in which the government should remain
neutral. Meissner wants the INS to take a more active role, but so many
immigrants applied in the 1990s that the agency has focused instead on reducing
its backlog.

Some federal money tied to a 1986 amnesty for people who had entered the country
illegally was set aside to help immigrants become citizens, and private
foundations distributed millions to community groups in the mid-1990s to help
those affected by 1996 laws cutting benefits to legal immigrants. Today, those
funds are drying up.

As a result, the groups that focus on naturalization "have all atrophied," says
Antonio Gonzales, director of the Southwest Voter Registration Project. "It's
frustrating. Now that Latinos want to become citizens, they're being denied
because of the process."

In California, the organization One-Stop Immigration once had 56 centers across
the state helping immigrants become citizens by filling out forms and offering
English and civics classes. Now, it has five. "The demand is out there, but the
resources aren't," says Juan Jose Gutierrez, the group's director. "I can
guarantee that if we had more money, we could help more people become citizens."

In the Washington area, almost every jurisdiction has boosted spending on
English as a Second Language classes, and similar classes are among the most
popular offerings at community colleges in Maryland and Virginia. But hundreds
of students are turned away each month for lack of space, and citizenship
classes are few and far between.

Arturo Sanchez, a college professor and a community board member in Queens, says
Hispanic immigrants in New York City and elsewhere are caught in a circle of
powerlessness. "The attitude of political leaders is: 'You don't naturalize, you
don't vote, so why should I pay attention to you?' " he says. "But why isn't the
Democratic political leadership reaching out to immigrants and helping them
become citizens?

"Because it's not in their interest."

Sanchez argues that the political establishment in New York is so entrenched, it
has no incentive to recruit new immigrants, as the old machines that dominated
the city once did. "They have a core group of party folk who they can count on.
Why incorporate new groups in the process when they will be wild cards as voters
and put demands on finite resources? And so they exclude us."

The same dynamic was at work in some cities at the end of the last great wave of
immigration. Political machines that worked to naturalize immigrants often
scaled back efforts after they were safely in power, neglecting newer arrivals
from different countries.

"When you have competitive politics, the parties have every incentive to swell
the ranks of voters and make naturalization an easier process," says Steven P.
Erie, a scholar at the University of California, San Diego. "But once they
consolidate power, it's benign neglect with the next wave."

Margarita Lopez, the Democratic City Council member who represents the Lower
East Side, recalls going door to door in the neighborhood during her campaign
and finding household after household of noncitizen Latinos.

"Some of them had put in their papers but were waiting years to get a letter
back. Some of them needed help but didn't know where to go for help," she says.

And is anyone doing anything now to help Latinos in her district become
citizens? Lopez shakes her head. She says she is reluctant to give advice about
how to fill out the citizenship forms herself. The process is so complex--and
she worries she might make a mistake.


Hispanics have the largest immigrant population in the United States, yet only
21.6 percent are citizens:


Immigrant group/ Naturalized citizens/ Population (In Millions)


White, not of Hispanic origin/ 49.8%/ 6.6 million

Asian, Pacific Islander/ 44.1%/ 6.1

Black/ 35.3%/ 2.0

Hispanic origin (of any race)/ 21.6%/ 11.4 million


SOURCE: "Profile of the Foreign-Born Population in the United States, 1997,"
U.S. Census Bureau


Becoming A Citizen


Recent studies show that a large percentage of Latinos do not attempt to become
citizens, or that if they begin the process, they do not complete it. One reason
often cited is the complexity of the naturalization process. A look at what's
required:


Before applying


Candidates for naturalization must have been a permanent resident for the past
five years, or three years if married to a U.S. citizen. An applicant must also
be a person of "good moral character."

Examples of what might show a lack of good moral character:

* Lying to gain immigration benefits

* Illegal gambling

* Failure to pay court-ordered child-support or alimony payments

* Habitual drunkenness/drunken driving

* Abuse of controlled substances

* Prostitution

* Polygamy

* Any crime against a person with intent to harm

* Terrorist acts


1. Complete the four-page Application for Naturalization (Form N-400); get two
photographs taken.


2. Collect other necessary documents.

* A photocopy of both sides of the Permanent Resident Card

* A check or money order for the $ 250 processing fee

Other documents that may be required:

* Proof that a spouse has been a legal resident for at least three years

* A marriage certificate

* Proof of termination of a previous marriage

* Certification of military service

* Copies of court or government orders to provide financial support

* Official records involving prior criminal charges

* Income tax returns

* Letter from a church attesting to applicant's "good moral character"


3. Send the application, photos, documents and fee to the appropriate service
center.


4. Receive an appointment letter from the INS for fingerprinting. If six months
pass, your documents likely have been lost and you must reapply.


5. Get fingerprints taken for FBI criminal background check.


6. Wait for INS to schedule an interview; the wait can often be longer than a
year.


7. Receive an appointment for an interview.  Applicants must take an English
test to prove they can read, write and speak English.  They must also take a
civics test. Applicants may be required by INS to provide additional documents.


8. Decision, with three possible outcomes:


Granted: In some cases, the oath ceremony can take place the same day.

Continued: Case is put on hold. Common reasons are failing the English and
civics tests or failing to give the INS the needed documents.

Denied: There is an admini-strative review process for applicants who are
denied.


If granted, then candidate will:

* Receive a ceremony date to take the oath.

* Return the Permanent Resident Card.

* Take the Oath of Allegiance, renouncing allegiance to any foreign state or
sovereignty.

* Receive the Certificate of Naturalization.


SOURCE: 'A Guide to Naturalization,' U.S. Department of Justice

(This graphic was not available) Latino Immigrants: Citezenship Decisions


LOAD-DATE: July 04, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: LA NUEVA VIDA; The Road to Citizenship; Pg. Third in an occasional
series

GRAPHIC: gr,,TWP

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              172 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 13, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

ON THE MOVE

SECTION: HOWARD EXTRA; Pg. M05

LENGTH: 339 words



IMMIGRATION SERVICE NAMES NEW DIRECTOR


The Foreign-born Information and Referral Network, which provides community
assistance for immigrants and refugees in Howard County, has named Gary D.
Hughes its executive director. He replaces Kinza Schuyler, who after five years
at FIRN has accepted a position in Seattle.

Hughes comes to the Columbia-based, nonprofit organization after serving as a
consultant and analyst for Women Entrepreneurs of Baltimore and as a business
development counselor for the Baltimore Minority Business Initiative. He also is
the co-founder and former director of Advocates for Homeless Families in
Frederick.


COMMUNITY COLLEGE CREATES NEW POSITION


Howard County Community College named David A. Buonora director of legislative
relations and business development. In the newly created position, Buonora, a
Silver Spring resident, will work to raise awareness of education services
available through the college's Business Training Center and other academic
programs. He also will serve as the liaison between the college and elected
officials and government employees at the county, state and federal levels.

Previously, Buonora was a legislative associate for the American Association of
Community Colleges and a legislative assistant to two members of Congress. He
also has served on the White House Task Force on National Health Care Reform.


HCC FORMS SCHOLARSHIP BOARD


The Howard Community College Educational Foundation Inc., which raises
scholarship money to provide financial assistance to HCC students, has elected
its board of directors. The members are: Peter Horowitz, president of EVI Inc.,
chairman; Roberta Dillow, vice chairman; Herschel Langenthal, managing partner
of Langenmyer Co., treasurer; Edward L. Waddell, managing director, Cardoni
Waddell LLC, assistant treasurer; Mary Ellen Duncan, president of HCC,
secretary; and Nancy L. Smith, HCC's executive director of development,
assistant secretary.

Board members will serve two-year terms.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              173 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 20, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

America as Mexico's Economic Safety Valve

Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 1023 words


Americans ought to hope for the success of Vicente Fox Quesada, the new
president-elect of Mexico. He broke the 71-year rule of the Institutional
Revolutionary Party (known as PRI), creating a broader and more genuine
democracy. He promises to attack corruption, curb the drug trade, encourage
private investment and increase economic growth. Fox deserves our support and
sympathy. But we should not let goodwill slip into sentimentality. American and
Mexican interests sometimes collide--on immigration, for instance, where Fox
seems to have large ambitions.

Our interest lies in less immigration from Mexico, while Mexico's interest lies
in more. The United States has long been an economic safety valve for Mexico: a
source of jobs for its poor. By World Bank estimates, perhaps 40 percent of
Mexico's 100 million people have incomes of less than $ 2 a day. The same
desperate forces that drive people north mean that once they get here they face
long odds in joining the American economic and social mainstream.

The United States may (or may not) need more immigrants--this is a subject of
much disagreement. But we surely don't need more poor and unskilled workers, and
Mexican immigrants fall largely in this category. The stakes here transcend
economics. Americans are justly proud of being a nation of immigrants. People of
many lands and customs have become American--which is different from what they
were--even as they refashioned what it means to be American. By contrast, many
Mexican immigrants have little desire to "join the American mainstream"
precisely because their overriding motive for coming was economic and their
homeland is so close. Their primary affection remains with Mexico.

This is understandable, even commendable. (In 1997 only 15 percent of the
estimated 7 million Mexican immigrants had become U.S. citizens. One reason, of
course, is that perhaps 3 million are thought to be illegal.) But it is equally
understandable that most Americans wish to preserve the nation's immigrant
heritage--and not become simply a collection of peoples, from various places,
who happen to work here and whose main allegiances lie elsewhere.

Fox's basic diagnosis of the immigration problem is sound. He believes that only
greater prosperity in Mexico--more jobs, higher incomes--can reduce the
pressures to migrate. If people live better, they will stay home. Since 1996
Mexico's economy has grown about 5 percent annually. Fox aims to raise that to 7
percent by 2006. He talks, somewhat inconsistently, of ultimately having open
borders between the United States and Mexico, much as exist between members of
the European Union. At one point, he says this could occur in a decade. At
another point, he concedes it would require a convergence of incomes (perhaps 7
to 1 in America's favor) to prevent a mass exodus of Mexicans. Optimistically,
that would take decades.

Meanwhile, he apparently hopes to raise legal immigration. This is the gist of
various press leaks. He seems to suggest a bargain: The United States would
allow more legal immigration; in return, Mexico would crack down--as it hasn't
in the past--on illegal immigration. Already, Mexico is the largest source of
legal immigrants, representing about 20 percent in 1998. The Wall Street Journal
quotes one Fox adviser as saying that legal visas should increase by about
180,000, which would more than double their 1998 level.

For the United States, this would be a bad bargain. No one knows the number of
Mexicans who come and stay illegally each year. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service's last estimate (which dates from 1996) is 150,000. If
this is correct, the proposed increase in legal visas would exceed the present
number of illegal immigrants. Overall immigration would rise even
if--miraculously and implausibly--illegal immigration stopped altogether.

The United States cannot act as a sponge for Mexico's poor. In the present boom,
immigration is an issue easily forgotten. Anyone can get a job, we say.
Immigrants (it's argued) have helped prevent a wage-price spiral. Up to a point,
they may have. But the boom won't last forever, and the least-skilled immigrants
always struggle.

The most obvious consequence of allowing more Mexican immigrants into the
country would be to hurt those already here. The two groups clearly compete. An
increase of 10 percent in new immigrants can reduce the wages of earlier
immigrants by 9 or 10 percent, says a report from the Urban Institute in
Washington. Fewer than half of Mexican Americans over 25--including those born
in the United States--were high school graduates in 1996, according to a study
from the National Council of La Raza, an advocacy group for Latinos. The same
report warns that workers with poor English can do only "basic tasks at
entry-level positions offering low wages." All this is common sense.

The power of America's economy, culture and society to assimilate immigrants is
enormous. History is clear: The children of immigrants increasingly become
American. But that power is not unlimited. The job market, schools and social
services can be overwhelmed by large numbers, especially--as is the case with
Mexicans--when most immigrants come to only two states, California and Texas.

The dangers are balkanization--a society increasingly fractured along class and
ethnic lines--and a backlash against immigration. A possible perverse side
effect is a rise in prejudice against Hispanic Americans, who are confused for
immigrants, even though they've often lived here for generations. This has long
concerned civil rights groups, such as La Raza.

There is a difference between having open borders for goods and for people. The
theory of NAFTA (the North American Free Trade Agreement) was that both the
United States and Mexico could prosper from more trade and international
investment. The theory remains powerful, even if it's no instant panacea for all
of Mexico's problems. Vicente Fox and the next U.S. president have plenty of
areas where they can cooperate to mutual advantage. But higher Mexican
immigration isn't one of them.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              174 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 23, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

Europe Bids Immigrants Unwelcome; Natives Resent Changes In 'Their Way of Life'

Jeffrey Smith , Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 2370 words

DATELINE: ROME


As it raced across the Adriatic Sea a week ago, the motorized rubber dinghy that
Fatmir Marco hoped was carrying him to a better life slapped roughly against the
swells. The 30 people crowded aboard grabbed at one another for security. Night
had fallen, and everyone was silent and nervous as the craft sped to elude
Italian coast-guard cutters.

Then, 50 yards from shore near the Italian city of Otranto, the boat's
pistol-packing pilot turned the boat sharply, deliberately dumping most of the
passengers into the water. Marco, an 18-year-old Albanian who had paid
traffickers more than $ 600 to help him flee the impoverished town of Lezhe,
began swimming and, with the others, reached land.

In the ensuing days he made his way to Rome, where his better life has yet to
begin. Instead, he has joined thousands of other illegal immigrants who sleep in
the city's parks and shelters and queue at mealtime in front of soup kitchens
run by religious charities.

A historic tide of illegal immigrants is crashing ashore in southern Italy,
pressing relentlessly northward to reach the continent's wealthier, developed,
largely white and politically conservative center. The influx has set in motion
fundamental social and cultural changes in Europe, creating a mixture of races
and ethnic groups in locales where for centuries only one native hue or
linguistic accent was known.

Most of the illicit arrivals are simply seeking better jobs, not fleeing
political oppression. Numbering a half-million a year, they come from Iraq,
Iran, Turkey, Afghanistan, Africa, Eastern Europe, even Latin America. When
people entering legally are added in, Europe's per capita rate of intake is now
almost double that of the United States, and double its own rate of a decade
ago.

But almost everywhere on the continent, from Milan and Madrid to Lisbon and
London, an increasingly unfriendly reception awaits those hammering on the
European Union's door, slipping over its transom and squeezing through its
cracks.

Berlin, for example, has the world's largest Turkish population outside Turkey,
with 170,000 immigrants; it also has the largest Palestinian settlement outside
the Middle East. As a result, some of the natives are seething. They are
unaccustomed to seeing shoes left on doorsteps by Muslims and resent the fact
that a fifth of those born in the city cannot speak German. In some elementary
schools, no child speaks German as a native tongue.

In southern Europe in particular, the speed of change has caught government and
social agencies unprepared. Historical providers of immigrants to the world,
Italy, Portugal and Spain have within the past two years abruptly become net
importers of large numbers of the world's poor.

Law enforcement efforts against smugglers have had little effect; refugee
centers in cities have been overwhelmed, causing growing homelessness; crimes by
or against refugees have risen sharply, as has workplace abuse and
discrimination against them.

"In the south, we like to say that we are very open," said Juan Clos, the mayor
of Barcelona, at a conference last week on immigration in Rome. But in fact, "we
need to change our minds, we need to change our laws, [and] we need to change
our culture . . . to really accept that people are coming."

Plenty of Europeans disagree. Unlike in the United States--a country founded by
immigrants--many people here are unaccustomed to any substantial racial or
ethnic minority presence, and find the idea discomfiting.

A survey commissioned several years ago by the European Union showed, for
example, that a third of the respondents considered themselves "racist" and 48
percent felt countries would "be better off" without immigrants. Only 40 percent
said they thought immigrants, a key engine of American economic progress, would
bring their country any real benefits.

The indigenous population demands that "their way of life" remain unchanged by
the presence of foreigners, either in the workplace or in the schools, unless
everyone prospers, said Barbara John, the city of Berlin's top immigration
official for the past 17 years. Even though many immigrants take menial jobs
that native Europeans scorn and bolster local economies beset by growing labor
shortages, social tensions have developed that "are often misused for xenophobic
rhetoric" that pays large dividends for politicians, John added.

Just 2.2 percent of Italy's population is foreign born, well below the United
States' figure of roughly 10 percent. But Francesco Storace, an official of the
National Alliance party, a political heir to Italy's wartime Fascist Party,
campaigned this spring against "the phenomenon of wild clandestine immigration"
and what he called its resulting "social deviance." In April, the rhetoric
helped elect him to the post of provincial governor in the region that includes
Rome, which has Italy's largest immigrant population.

In Austria, Joerg Haider's anti-immigrant Freedom Party startled Europe by
winning 28 percent of the vote in an October parliamentary election; since then,
he has attracted fresh political controversy in Italy by visiting sympathetic
political leaders in the north. The Italian media now regularly play to
anti-immigration sentiment with banner headlines about any immigrant involved in
crime.

In Britain, where polls show many residents fear immigration as a threat to
national identity, authorities have pioneered a program to hold airlines and
other transport companies liable for illegal trafficking. In Spain, a new law
has imposed harsh penalties for businesses that hire illegal immigrants, and
foreigners in small towns in southern Spain were victimized this spring by
racially motivated attacks.

Putting out the welcome mat "is not in our tradition, not in our culture,"
lamented Francesco di Luccia, a Jesuit priest who directs a refugee center in
the center of Rome. "We are not accustomed to people coming from poor countries
and asking to live here."

United Nations refugee officials are fond of quoting a former European
government minister who said that immigration policies are becoming so
restrictive that asylum-seekers--those who claim they are fleeing
persecution--would soon reach Europe only by parachute.

But to Antonio Vitorino, the European Union's commissioner for justice and home
affairs, the lesson of recent years is that erecting walls is futile. European
countries, he warned at the Rome conference, should "face the fact that the zero
immigration policies of the past 25 years are not working." The flow of illicit
economic refugees, he said, has become unstoppable.

"The more we try to unilaterally close the borders, the more we are playing into
the hands of the traffickers," agreed Peter von Behtlemfalvy of the
International Organization for Migration.

So much immigration has fallen under the control of traffickers, said Don
Cesare, who runs Italy's largest refugee reception center, the issue has
crystallized as "a war between guards and thieves."

As wealthy Europe becomes a new catch basin for the world's poor, Italy--a land
that more than 6.5 million people left in search of a better life between 1950
and 1980--has been suddenly fashioned into a funnel. "The south of Italy," said
Gen. Nino di Paolo, commander of the Italian financial police's regional brigade
in Naples, "is the soft spot of Europe . . . not just a national border but a
European border."

European Union policies allowing unregulated movement of people between many
member countries mean those who reach Italy can readily move farther north.

Mohammed Hamo, 50, is one of tens of thousands of such travelers. He wears a
suit and tie while sleeping on blankets in the shadow of Rome's Colosseum with
his wife and five other relatives; these are the only clothes he was able to
bring along on a month-long journey from his house in the city of Mosul, in
northern Iraq.

Hamo says he earned roughly $ 100 a month as a construction worker in Mosul, a
fraction of what he expects to make when his family reaches its hoped-for final
destination, the Netherlands. He is idling in Rome only until he figures out how
to finance the rest of his trip. Already, he says, he paid Turkish smugglers in
Mosul roughly $ 7,500 for secret transport to Istanbul, and then another $ 7,500
for the illegal trip to Italy.

Hamo arrived in Europe by one of the most common methods: His family hid with
eight other immigrants behind cartons in the back of a huge trailer truck; the
truck was driven with five others onto a ship that embarked from Istanbul and
docked a week later in the southern Italian city of Lecce, disgorging both its
legitimate and secret cargoes after passing through customs.

These voyages can be life-threatening. Last month, 58 Chinese immigrants
suffocated in a cargo truck container ferried from Belgium to Dover, England--a
small fraction of the estimated 2,000 immigrants who have died in the past
decade while trying to reach Europe. Last December, another 59 immigrants,
including at least seven children and teenagers, died when their boat sank in
the Adriatic en route to Italy.

On Thursday, a ship carrying more than 400 immigrants, including some in dire
health, limped into a southern Italian port. On July 14, Greek officials rescued
192 illegal immigrants from Asia and the Middle East from a Turkish freighter
that had run aground off the southern Greek coast; people aboard said they had
not eaten in four days.

The smuggling business is shared by cutthroat gangs of different nationalities
that somehow manage to cooperate across borders. Turkish groups often collect
immigrants from South Asia, the Middle East and the former Soviet Union at
hotels in Turkey, for example, and ferry them aboard ships or trucks to Albania
or Greece. From there Albanian mafia ship them across the Adriatic to Italy.
They are then picked up by Italian gangs for transport to Rome and Milan, then
on to Switzerland or Germany.

Often the gangs don't deal just in people. The 20 to 40 dinghies that leave the
Albanian ports of Vlore and Durres most afternoons, for example, primarily carry
economic immigrants. But some also have narcotics, weapons, marijuana and other
contraband, police say. "They are organized by international organizations that
speak one language: money," said a federal anti-mafia prosecutor stationed in
the southern Italian port of Bari, who asked that his name not be disclosed to
protect his safety.

The gangs' profits--estimated in the billions of dollars per year--are large
enough to give them enormous political leverage. Early this year in Vlore,
Albania, for example, local mobsters kidnapped the town's police chief after he
seized some of their dinghy fleet, agreeing to release him only after the boats
were returned. Some officials sell out to the gangs in advance.

"The bosses are people who earn huge salaries where the police earn $ 75 a
month," said Capt. Fulvia Furia, who pilots an Italian coast-guard vessel
stationed near Vlore to catch some of the dinghies as they start the 60-mile
dash.

"In such conditions, it's difficult to create a national consciousness," Furia
said. "We've seen some of the pilots we arrested on the street again [in Vlore]
after a couple of days."

Despite light court sentences, many pilots are willing to take ruthless measures
to avoid capture because they don't want their costly boats and engines to be
seized. Italian naval officials say their spotlights have illuminated numerous
pilots deliberately dumping babies into the water--even in winter--to distract
the pursuers and ensure their escape.

The migrants "are coming to a place they know nothing about, to see what they
will find, and they put themselves in the hands of men without scruples," said
Giuseppe Palmisano, 29, who pilots a fast coast-guard vessel from Lecce that
tries to intercept the dinghies.

People who reach Italy often want to move on quickly, to northern countries
where employment is likelier and social services are better. "If you have money
[for further travel], you do not stay in Italy one minute," said Mohammed Amin
Abdullah, 23, an Iraqi Kurd sleeping in one of Rome's parks before heading
north. "Italy is a beautiful country, but there is nowhere to sleep. In Germany,
you have a place to stay on the first day."

The city of Rome says it has just 500 beds for refugees, dispersed among 18
reception centers. "If a group of 50 refugees arrives at once, this is a big
crisis in Rome. There is no central place to go, and no single place has to take
any responsibility," said di Luccia, who runs one of the centers. "All of them
sleep outside for at least one week"--even in winter.

They don't have to worry about quick deportation, however. Under Italian rules
that originated in the postwar European scramble to help victims of political
repression, almost anyone can apply for asylum here and gain release from
custody within 10 days.

Doing so puts immigrants in a legal limbo, however. The country's clogged
bureaucracy takes more than six months to provide a modest sustenance allowance
and more than a year to hear asylum claims. In the meantime, refugees are barred
from working officially, and their children are barred from attending public
school.

Those who try to find housing on their own often face open discrimination.
Hundreds of apartment rental ads in Rome clearly state no "stranieri"--
foreigners--and they of course have no standing to sue in court. So some
immigrants turn to crime. Foreigners now constitute roughly a quarter of all
those in jail or out on bail in Italy.

Whether in the south or the north, it is a situation that pleases no one.

The EU's decision to rely on "symbolic, yet highly repressive policies has
produced the worst of all possible worlds: continuing immigration combined with
lower wages, poorer working conditions, increased crime, more disease and
greater social marginalization," Douglas S. Massey, a sociology professor at the
University of Pennsylvania, said at the conference here.

But what's going to be put in its place no one can yet say.

(This graphic was not available) Seeking A Better Life

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              175 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 28, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

Raymond Farrell Dies; Was INS Commissioner

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 182 words


Raymond F. Farrell, 94, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service from 1962 to 1973, died July 26 at Arlington Hospital after a stroke. He
lived in Arlington.

Mr. Farrell, an investigator with the INS for a number of years, had also been
an FBI special agent. He headed the INS New York office after World War II and
was named associate commissioner for operations in 1958.

Mr. Farrell was a native of Pautucket, R.I., and a graduate of Georgetown
University and its law school. He served in the Army Air Forces in Italy during
World War II and was awarded a Bronze Star.

He also worked, largely as an investigator, for the Public Works Administration,
Interior Department, Federal Communications Commission and a joint congressional
committee that studied the Tennessee Valley Authority.

At INS, he was credited for creating a "back check" program that kept tabs on
the whereabouts of immigrants.

He was a member of the Catholic Cathedral of St. Thomas More in Arlington.

Survivors include his wife, Charlotte Farrell of Arlington, and a sister.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              176 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     August 7, 2000, Monday, Final Edition

Deaths

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 777 words



Uri Gordon

Israeli Official


Uri Gordon, 65, the charismatic Jewish Agency official who oversaw mass
immigrations of Ethiopian and Soviet Jews to Israel in the 1980s and 1990s, died
July 30 in Jerusalem. The cause of death was not reported.

He rose to prominence in the Jewish Agency, a quasi-governmental body that
supervises immigration, in the 1970s, when he won a following during a stint as
emissary to the United States.

Mr. Gordon supervised immigration for the agency in the 1980s and 1990s, taking
part in the planning of the dramatic airlifts of tens of thousands of Ethiopian
Jews in 1984 and in 1991, and planning the absorption of the hundreds of
thousands of Jews who arrived in Israel after the collapse of the Soviet Union.


John Wells

English Artist


John Wells, 92, a member of the "St. Ives Group" of English artists, was found
dead July 27 at his home in London. The cause of death was not reported.

His work drew on Cornwall's rugged landscape of sea and rock and was influenced
by the Russian Constructivists, with their lines and geometrical shapes. After
World War II, in which he served as a Royal Navy medical officer, he took up
painting full time.

In 1946, he founded the Crypt Group, a collection of modernists within the
established artists' community of St. Ives in Cornwall. He had his first London
show in 1946 and gained recognition in Britain and abroad throughout the 1950s.


M. Isolina Ferre

Catholic Nun


Sister M. Isolina Ferre, 85, a U.S. Medal of Freedom honoree who used her
wealthy family's influence to create charities, died of respiratory failure Aug.
3 in Ponce, Puerto Rico.

President Clinton awarded Sister Ferre the Medal of Freedom, the highest U.S.
civilian honor, last August for founding centers for delinquent youth, clinics
and empowerment centers in Puerto Rico, New York and Appalachia.

She gained national recognition in the late 1950s and 1960s for her mediation
efforts with Puerto Rican youth gangs in New York. She returned home to Puerto
Rico and created her first community aid center in Ponce. She started Ponce's
Trinity College, a vocational school, in 1988.


Nan Leslie

Actress


Nan Leslie, 74, known for her roles as a cowboy's romantic interest in Western
films in the 1940s and 1950s and who had been romantically linked to the famed
cowboy stars Gene Autry and Tim Holt, died July 30 in San Juan Capistrano,
Calif. She had pneumonia.

She appeared in more than 40 movies, including "George White's Scandals" (1945),
"Under the Tonto Rim" (1947), "Guns of Hate" (1948) and "Train to Tombstone"
(1950). She also made appearances on a handful of television shows, including
"Perry Mason" and "The Lone Ranger."


Sean Coman

Disc Jockey


Sean Coman, 45, a radio disc jockey who was known on the air as Sean Donahue and
who once worked for Washington area rock station DC101, was killed in a car
accident July 8 near Belt, Mont.

He had worked in Montana since 1991.

Mr. Coman, a Pennsylvania-born son of a concert promoter, spent five years with
DC101, from 1980 to 1985. He began his career in the 1970s with KOME-FM in San
Jose and later worked for radio stations in San Francisco, Chicago and
Baltimore, where he teamed up with comedian-song parodist Bob Rivers. They went
on to share a morning drive-time show in Seattle.


Robert T. Rush

Jesuit Priest


The Rev. Robert Thomas Rush, 72, a priest in the Society of Jesus who had served
as assistant to the secretary general of the Japanese Bishops Conference from
1995 until last year, when he came to Washington, died of cancer Aug. 2 in the
infirmary of the Jesuit Community at Georgetown University.

Father Rush, who was ordained in 1959 and took his final vows in 1962, spent the
bulk of his career as a member of the Japanese Province of the order. In Japan,
he taught high school English and served as high school principal and rector. He
was assistant to the general superior of the Jesuits in Rome for the West Asia
region of the order from 1975 to 1983.


Sir Leslie Martin

British Architect


Sir Leslie Martin, 91, the architect of the Royal Festival Hall in London who
had been an architecture professor at Cambridge University and who was knighted
in 1957, died July 28 in London. The cause of death was not reported.

A graduate of Manchester University School of Architecture, he became principal
assistant architect to the London, Midland and Scottish Railway in 1939.

In 1948, he was appointed deputy architect of the London County Council and put
in charge of a concert hall project on the south bank of the River Thames.


LOAD-DATE: August 07, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              177 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 11, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Changing Culture at INS; Chief Puts Office on a New Course

Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: WEEKLY - DC; Pg. J01

LENGTH: 993 words


Warren A. Lewis, the new head of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service's Washington office, likes to refer to a statistic to describe his
approach to the job: In only 18 months in office, he has reprimanded, suspended
or otherwise disciplined more employees than his predecessors had in the last
several years.

As a result, he says, an office once saddled with a reputation for rude workers,
long lines, inefficiency and even corruption has begun to provide better service
to the hundreds of thousands of immigrants living in the District and Virginia
who seek citizenship, green cards, work permits, visas or other benefits.

"We had to change our overall attitude and the way we do business and be more
attentive to the needs of the customers," Lewis said in a recent interview,
explaining why he has disciplined more than 20 employees--including
supervisors--for offenses such as rudeness, unprofessional behavior, inattention
to duties and even absences from work.

"I believe that personnel is our biggest asset. Unfortunately, at times, there's
an attitude: 'I work for the government, and you can't do anything to me.'
That's unacceptable," he said. "The majority of our employees are good
employees, but a couple of bad employees can do a lot of damage."

Local immigration lawyers, long frustrated by the performance of Washington's
INS office, especially compared to its counterpart in Baltimore, acknowledged
that Lewis has made a difference.

"I think he's working very hard to improve the customer service, and yes, it has
gotten better," said Mary Ryan, president of the local chapter of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, adding that there remains much room for
improvement.

Michael Maggio, an immigration lawyer who once publicly compared the Washington
INS office to "Dante's rings of hell," also praised Lewis.

"I think Warren Lewis is doing a fabulous job," he said. "He was given one of
the toughest jobs in the immigration service, an office that has been grossly
underfunded, in a terrible building, where staff morale has been at an all-time
low . . . and he increased morale, increased efficiency and productivity, and
made the office much more customer-friendly."

Lewis, 46, who is the brother of the District's U.S. attorney, Wilma A. Lewis,
accepts the plaudits with a little smirk--and the satisfaction of a bureaucrat
who has endured his share of criticism in the past.

Lewis, a native of the U.S. Virgin Island of St. Thomas, began his career there
more than 25 years ago after taking a civil service exam and finding a job as an
investigator for the INS. He worked his way up the ranks, serving in different
capacities in Dallas, Houston and the agency's Washington headquarters.

From the start, Lewis said, his goal was to be named head of one of the agency's
36 district offices. He applied repeatedly for openings. But despite high
performance reviews, the agency turned him down repeatedly.

Lewis, who is black, responded by filing a discrimination complaint against the
INS and leaving for a job with the Federal Aviation Administration. Shortly
afterward, in 1993, 19 black INS agents in Los Angeles filed a similar complaint
that grew into a class-action on behalf of all black immigration officers. It
was one of the largest racial bias cases ever filed against the federal
government.

A year later, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner selected Lewis to head the INS
office in Newark, one of the busiest in the country. At the time, he was only
the third black agent ever appointed to head a district office.

It was the job of his dreams, he said, but it soon turned into a nightmare. In
June 1995, INS detainees rioted at the Esmor Immigration Detention Center in
Elizabeth, N.J. Twenty people were injured as detainees took over a building and
held two guards hostage for five hours before police broke through their
barricades.

The INS eventually confirmed allegations of physical and psychological abuse of
detainees by guards at the detention center, which was run by a private company.
The agency blamed the company for repeated coverups of problems but also
criticized its Newark office for failing to monitor the center properly. Lewis
was singled out for blame by some in Congress.

About the same time, Lewis also found his office in the middle of a criminal
investigation into its workings. He said he had noticed signs of corruption soon
after taking the Newark assignment: Agents conducting INS raids seemed to avoid
certain areas and businesses, and Newark International Airport was producing far
fewer cases of people trying to enter the country illegally than he had
expected.

Lewis brought his suspicions to his superiors and to internal investigators at
the Justice Department, as well as to federal prosecutors in New Jersey. In
1996, the office's No. 3 official, John Lonergan, was convicted of charges of
taking bribes and falsifying documents to help immigrants enter the country
illegally. By then, the INS had replaced Lewis as the head of the Newark office
and demoted him to deputy director of its Baltimore office.

Lewis believed he was being punished for exposing corruption, and he filed a
complaint under the Federal Whistleblower Protection Act. "My life became
miserable," he said.

The complaint was resolved when Lewis was appointed to head the Washington INS
office, and INS officials said they consider him a "member of the INS team." But
he said he still believes some agency officials are out to make his life
difficult, citing the months he has waited for approval to fill key vacancies.

"The service is saying, 'Let's move forward.' That's what they're saying. But
I'm having difficulty getting the support to help me take this district where it
should be," he said. "I think we're doing a lot of things better, but there's a
lot more we can do."

Warren A. Lewis is the new director of the Washington INS office.

NAME: WARREN A. LEWIS

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              178 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   January 13, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

No Bail in Vt. Alien-Smuggling Case

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 257 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., Jan. 12


A federal judge refused again today to release a Canadian woman arrested last
month on alien-smuggling charges after prosecutors presented what they called
evidence of connections to international terrorist networks.

Lucia Garofalo, 35, of Montreal, was arrested Dec. 19 with Algerian national
Buoabide Chamchi, 20, as they tried to cross from Canada into Vermont.

U.S. Magistrate Jerome Neidermeier denied a motion for Garofalo's release on
bail after prosecutors presented evidence that she made telephone calls to a
person indirectly linked to Ahmed Ressam, who was arrested in Port Angeles,
Wash., on Dec. 14 and charged with trying to bring bomb-making materials into
the United States from Canada.

Garofalo has pleaded not guilty to a variety of immigration charges and denied
any connection to Ressam or any violent political group.

Prosecutors said Garofalo telephoned Raja Aslam, who was not previously named in
the case, on the day of Ressam's arrest and had Aslam's phone number in her
pocket when she was arrested.

Aslam received eight telephone calls from a portable phone that also placed 23
calls to Abdel Ghani, who is being held in New York state on explosives charges
in connection with the investigation, prosecutors said.

Another Algerian linked to Ghani was indicted today by a federal grand jury in
Seattle. Abdel Hakim Tizegha, 29 and a friend of Ghani, was charged with
illegally re-entering the United States on Dec. 24 and eluding border officers
at the Canadian border at Blaine, Wash.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              179 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                   February 5, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

Guarding Borders

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A18; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 150 words



From E.M. Waller's Jan. 31 letter, it is clear that he is unaware of how
organized smuggling organizations use other countries as landing points to
smuggle people into the United States. The U.S. Coast Guard follows up on
intelligence and information received in its efforts in curtailing illegal alien
smuggling vessels when the indication is that the migrants' destination
ultimately is the United States.

Countries in Central and South America, as well as Canada, routinely are used as
landing points for smuggling vessels. The migrants then are moved across U.S.
land borders. Most interdicted Chinese nationals encountered in the Western
Hemisphere have a final destination somewhere in the United States.

The U.S. Coast Guard's efforts in deterring smuggling vessels are neither a
waste of resources nor an attempt to police other countries.

W.J. RILEY

Washington



LOAD-DATE: February 05, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              180 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 24, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

'Snakeheads' at Your Service; Smugglers of People Play Big Part in Chinese
Town's Economy

Ted Plafker; John Pomfret , Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1066 words

DATELINE: CHANGLE, China


"Snakehead," the pejorative term for alien smugglers, is not a dirty word in
this township, a swath of southern Chinese countryside near the choppy gray
waters of the Taiwan Strait. And according to the FBI, Cheng Chui Ping, also
known as Big Sister Ping, was the mother of all snakeheads.

Cheng, a matronly, fiftyish woman with a souvenir shop in New York's Chinatown,
is believed to have smuggled thousands of Chinese over the last 16 years to
North America and elsewhere from this semirural suburb on the outskirts of
Fuzhou, the bustling capital of Fujian province.

Once, law enforcement agents said, she was involved in a case in which four
Chinese attempted to sneak into the United States by going over Niagara Falls in
a $ 59 raft. They died. She is also linked to a 1993 tragedy in which 10 Chinese
illegal aliens died on a boat called the Golden Venture off the coast of New
York.

[In a current case that is surmised to involve snakeheads, three people were
charged Friday in connection with the horrific deaths of 58 Chinese illegal
immigrants who suffocated in the back of a truck while trying to sneak into
Britain this week from the Netherlands. Police said the Dutch driver of the
truck, Perry Wacker, 32, was charged with 58 counts of manslaughter while a
Chinese man, You Yi, 38, and a Chinese woman, Ying Guo, 29, were charged with
conspiracy to facilitate illegal entry into the United Kingdom.]

Now Cheng is in a Hong Kong jail cell awaiting extradition to the United States,
where she faces a seven-count federal indictment charging her with money
laundering, alien smuggling, extortion and other crimes.

But here in Changle, Cheng is viewed as a simple service provider in the economy
of alien smuggling. And that attitude helps explain the tragedy in Britain.

While people here mourned the grisly loss of life there, they also seemed to
take the deaths as part of the risks of their particular way of life--where
going overseas in a box or a boat has almost become part of their cultural
makeup.

The only connection between Cheng and the British victims is that they all hail
from Changle, a collection of quiet villages, populated mostly by goats and the
elderly because the young are abroad. But her case--and how people reacted to it
here--illustrates the severity of the problem in China and other countries
around the world targeted by snakeheads.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 30,000 Chinese
illegal aliens, mostly from around Fuzhou, sneak into the United States each
year. They come, carrying bogus documents, on boats, by road via Mexico or on
planes. More than 100,000 Chinese leave for other countries each year, experts
say.

Snakeheads feed off these immigrants. A few years ago, it cost $ 30,000 for
passage to the United States. Now the price has doubled. A U.S. Senate report in
1991 estimated Cheng's net worth at more than $ 30 million. In addition to her
Chinatown shop, authorities said, she owns farms on Long Island and in New
Jersey. Altogether, she has sneaked 3,000 people out of China, authorities said.

Cheng is charged in the U.S. indictment with threatening and injuring immigrants
who failed to pay. But in Changle, these alleged crimes do not seem to resonate.

"I don't really support violence, but if people do not pay the money they agreed
to pay, then of course the snakeheads will have to take certain measures," said
Zhao Chunying, a Changle waitress.

Zhao said she plans to join her brother and uncle in the United States "in the
next several years" and would be prepared to use a snakehead if she had no other
choice. She also said she is confident that she would pay her fees on time.

The common line about the immigrants is that they have been forced to leave
China because of grinding poverty. Lin Jianzhi, a 37-year-old housing contractor
in Changle, thinks that is wrong.

"In fact, the reason people want to leave here is because the economy here is
the best in China," he said. "The pay is even higher here than in Beijing so . .
. where can we go if we want a higher standard? Abroad is the only place."

Then there is keeping up with the Joneses, Chinese style. Changle, Tingjiang and
Lianjiang, the three main centers of the alien smuggling racket around Fuzhou,
are all dotted with garish mansions--five or six stories tall, surfaced in shiny
white tile and accented with bizarre combinations of stainless steel pillars,
marble staircases and English turrets.

Standing on a village road, Lin points out two houses in the distance. They
belong to two brothers, he said, snakeheads who ran five big boatloads to North
America in 1993. They each cost $ 250,000 to build--a fortune here. Each comes
equipped with Jacuzzi, sauna and exercise room, all surrounded by a high fence.

With role models like these, Lin says, the pull of illegal immigration is even
stronger.

The beneficiaries of alien smuggling are also legion in this region, starting
with Lin. For the past 18 years, he has constructed seven or eight houses a year
for people living abroad. The basic cost is $ 100,000, top of the line $
250,000.

The government also does well. The alien smuggling business is worth an
estimated $ 3 billion a year. Some of that money makes its way back to the
government in bribes.

Peter Kwong, an expert on alien smuggling at Hunter College in New York,
estimates further that each year these immigrants remit $ 500 million to Fujian,
with the government and banks all getting a cut.

"The local government in Fujian is involved in this whole process," he said.
"They gain from the profits, from the remittances. The smugglers are the most
potent economic forces in this area. . . . Also the government has another
motivation--the more people leave China, the fewer problems--so the commitment
to solve this problem is not there."

But this time Beijing appears set on showing that it is cracking down. It has
flooded Changle with police and hauled dozens of people away for questioning.

So far this year, Chinese police have arrested 300 suspected snakeheads, and 100
have been sentenced to jail. However, this does not seem to be having much
effect. Authorities in British Columbia, for example, say they expect 1,200
Chinese illegal immigrants to wash ashore this year, double the number last
year.


Pomfret reported from Beijing.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              181 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 18, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

Thai Boy, 3, to Stay in U.S. Indefinitely

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 17


A 3-year-old boy brought from Thailand as a pawn in an immigrant smuggling
scheme will remain in the United States indefinitely, a federal judge ruled
today.

It was the second time U.S. District Judge Dickran Tevrizian extended an order
to block repatriation of Phanupong Khaisri, who has HIV, to ensure he will
receive proper health care.

The judge also said a court-appointed guardian could file a request for the boy
to be granted asylum.

Now in the care of social workers, the boy has spawned an international custody
dispute. The toddler's grandparents have sought custody and his return to
Thailand, but authorities there determined that the boy's mother was unfit to
have custody and thought he was touring with friends when he was being smuggled
into the United States.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              182 of 186 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 7, 1999, Tuesday, Final Edition

Safer Poultry Jobs

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A30; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 130 words


The recent front-page series [Nov. 28 to Dec. 1] about the foreign labor force
in the Eastern Shore poultry industry made a false assumption: that the poultry
industry would not survive without a foreign (and often illegal) labor force.

If Congress and the president would cut off much of the supply of illegal labor
and reduce the influx of legal immigrants, the poultry industry would be forced
to make managerial and capital changes that would make each poultry job safer,
more productive and better paid.

Our present immigration policy is responsible for the abysmal lives of the
poultry workers and for the costly changes to the lives of the residents of the
Eastern Shore. The policy is not necessary. Congress can stop it.

ROY BECK

Arlington




LOAD-DATE: December 07, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


                              183 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     March 21, 2000, Tuesday, Final Edition

The Global Fight for Talent

Demetrios G. Papademetriou

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 880 words


While we are again showing how not to have the right conversation about
foreign-born high-tech workers (people who come into this country on the H-1B
visa), the rest of the developed world is waking up to the fact that America's
cherry-picking of international tech talent amounts to an enormous competitive
advantage, one that, if left unchallenged, could extend U.S. dominance in
information technology indefinitely.

Our competitors are doing something about it. Germany, Canada, the United
Kingdom and Australia, among others, have already entered or are preparing to
enter the sweepstakes for high-tech workers. This month, after a quarter-century
of near-abstinence on recruiting foreign workers, Germany indicated that it
would tap the global talent pool to meet the labor needs of its information and
communications sectors. Chancellor Schroeder and key members of his cabinet
pledged to support offering term-limited employment to as many as 30,000 foreign
high-tech workers recruited from outside the European Union. This despite
unemployment rates that continue to hover at about 10 percent and opposition by
the federal labor minister, who argues that many of the unemployed could be
retrained to do the jobs that have been going begging. Sound familiar?

Similarly, Canada is about to liberalize access to high-tech workers, without
most of the regulatory obstacles placed on U.S. employers in 1998. Australia has
made such a large allocation of high-end temporary visas to its business
community that firms cannot fill all the slots. And the UK has experienced such
exceptional growth in the temporary immigration of highly qualified foreigners
that it is considering opening up the front door of its permanent immigration
system to such workers and their families.

What is going on? Three interrelated explanations come readily to mind. First,
in the information age, the demand for what Robert Reich has called "knowledge
workers," far outpaces the supply of such workers--partly because the education
and training systems of the developed world have been slow in adapting to the
new economy. Simultaneously, a number of countries are producing very
well-trained technical graduates at least in part "for export" (India) or simply
have temporary surpluses of such workers because of severe market and other
failures (Russia or, until recently, Ireland).

Second, at the cutting edge of the information revolution, process-heavy
training programs, such as Germany's apprenticeship system, may now ill-serve
many of their graduates. Such programs have been producing workers well-suited
to the capital goods-producing sectors. But as those industries seek more
favorable tax and regulatory environments abroad, the workers they leave behind
are not prepared to compete in post-industrial economies that value flexibility
and lifelong learning seemingly above all else. Hence the paradox of high
unemployment (often among otherwise well-trained and educated people) coexisting
with severe shortfalls of information workers.

Third, the "just-in-time" approach to getting certain types of talented foreign
workers, long practiced by the United States, is now spreading--just as it did
with the management of inventories in the manufacturing sector a decade or so
ago.

These new realities suggest that the United States do three things differently
on H-1Bs. First, we should keep our eyes fixed on what is best for all of us by
using the political energy of the issue to coax business into improving working
conditions for all, while inviting it to constantly reevaluate its worker needs
and the place of foreigners in them. In the process, we should focus on
developing visa requirements that are clear and consistent with the visa's
intent, procedures that are completely transparent and outcomes that are
predictable and timely.

Second, if high-end temporary visa classes are drawn carefully and reviewed
periodically and impartially, numerical limits should become nearly irrelevant.
Numerical limits, because they've become the equivalent of waving a cape in
front of a bull, defer the more meaningful conversations about how best to use
immigration to strengthen our competitiveness and how best to engage our
training and educational institutions in that common effort. And they have the
perverse effect of fueling a feeding frenzy as firms apply for visas early in
the fiscal year so as to protect themselves from the likely visa shortfall later
on--thus virtually guaranteeing that the shortfall will occur.

Finally, we should adjust our thinking--and our permanent immigration system--to
the reality that competition for talented foreigners will become much more
intense. In such an environment, the "total package" a firm offers may well be
the deciding factor in which offer a worker accepts. Primarily, that should mean
that we must continue to offer the best environment for intellectual and
business entrepreneurship. But a permanent visa for those who prove themselves
and play by the rules is also likely to become an essential part of that
package--and we should be able to accommodate that.


The writer is co-director of the International Migration Policy Program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.




LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              184 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      June 30, 2000, Friday, Final Edition

More Visas for Techies?; Lawmakers Want to Ease Curbs on Foreign Workers

Juliet Eilperin , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1233 words


A consensus is growing on Capitol Hill to ease visa restrictions so that more
high-skilled foreign workers can enter the country to meet the technology
community's nearly insatiable demand for new workers.

Prodded by an aggressive corporate lobbying campaign, the administration and top
congressional leaders from both parties have committed to boost by nearly 75
percent the number of workers U.S. companies can hire from overseas each year.
By raising the number of "H-1B" visas from 115,000 to 200,000 annually,
lawmakers believe they can help address the critical shortage of engineers,
mathematicians and other experts who design computer software and other
technological innovations for U.S firms.

House and Senate leaders are cautiously optimistic some kind of bill will emerge
before Congress adjourns for the year, especially given the growing influence of
a high-tech industry that lawmakers see both as a source of jobs for their
constituents and donations for their campaigns.

But with both parties jockeying for advantage over the issue, several
legislative and political hurdles loom. A key House Republican lawmaker fears
foreign professionals could take jobs from qualified Americans and has proposed
much more restrictive H-1B legislation. President Clinton is trying to attach a
major amnesty provision for illegal Latin American immigrants to the bill--an
unnecessary complication, in the view of GOP strategists.

On the Senate side, meanwhile, GOP leaders must contend with possible amendments
Democrats could attach to the bill after the measure is brought to the floor. An
anti-immigration group also is taking aim at Sen. Spencer Abraham, a Michigan
Republican who is sponsoring the visa bill--and faces a tough reelection
campaign this fall.

Despite the assorted controversies, the fact that lawmakers are willing to
support a new influx of immigrants, just two years after Congress doubled the
number of visas for these highly educated professionals, has surprised even some
technology lobbyists, who suspected they would not be able to pass legislation
again so soon.

But lawmakers--who have begun to make regular pilgrimages to Silicon Valley and
play host to high-tech executives in Washington--are keenly aware of how the
demand for engineers, scientific researchers and mathematicians has mushroomed.

"This set of industries is what I would call the white-hot core of this
economy," said House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo.), one of the
bill's sponsors, who just traveled to San Jose this month. "For many months,
everywhere I go I've been hearing there's not enough human talent for all the
jobs available."

The demand for H-1B visas reflects the nation's current lack of skilled workers:
Recipients must have at least a bachelor's degree, and they get a three-year
stay that can be extended once. More than 1.2 million high-tech jobs have been
created since 1993, even as the number of Americans receiving bachelor's degrees
in electrical engineering dropped 45 percent from 1987 to 1997. The current
unemployment rate for electrical engineers is a paltry 1.4 percent, while the
rate for computer software analysts is 1.7 percent.

H-1B visa holders include electrical engineers, biologists, university
professors and financial analysts, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. A high percentage of them come from India and China.

Roger Coker, who heads domestic recruiting for Texas Instruments Inc., said
German and Korean electronics companies now are hiring foreign engineers his
company can't bring to the United States. "For Texas Instruments it's really a
question of global competitiveness," said Coker, who has 1,600 jobs available
and recently offered one engineer a Porsche to come on board.

American firms reached the current 115,000 annual limit for these workers in
February, less than midway through the fiscal year.

Obtaining these temporary visas, which were first capped a decade ago at 65,000
a year, has become a perpetual problem for American companies. In late 1998 they
persuaded Congress to raise the level to 115,000 as part of the mammoth
end-of-the-year budget deal, but the companies estimate at this point that
300,000 jobs are going unfilled because of a lack of qualified workers.

While the visa bill enjoys broad bipartisan support, its progress has been
temporarily stalled. House GOP leaders are focused for the moment on persuading
Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.), who chairs the House Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, to drop requirements he favors imposing on employers.

Under the original bipartisan legislation authored by California Reps. David
Dreier (R) and Zoe Lofgren (D), the United States would raise the caps for
skilled visas to 200,000 for the next three fiscal years and double the visa fee
to $ 1,000. That money would fund science scholarships and worker training
programs.

Clinton backs giving the same number of visas, but he would increase the visa
fee to $ 3,000 and legalize immigrants who fled El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti
and Honduras in the 1980s but were not covered under a 1997 amnesty for
Nicaraguan and Cuban refugees.

Smith's measure would provide fewer visas than the other two proposals and
impose a number of new reporting and employment requirements on American
companies. It would provide 170,000 visas over the next two fiscal years, but
only if employers could prove the median wage for American workers in their
companies had risen over the past year and all H-1B workers earned $ 40,000 a
year or more and worked at least 35 hours a week.

Dreier said he was working to address Smith's concerns, and House Majority
Leader Richard K. Armey (R-Tex.) recently predicted the GOP would bring a bill
to the floor that would "end up substantively" similar to the bipartisan bill,
though it would bear Smith's name.

Smith, however, said in an interview there were limits to what concessions he
would make. "It can't be a one-way street," he said. "We need to protect
American workers as well as the legitimate needs of high-tech companies."

Several Democrats accused GOP leaders of effectively hijacking the
Dreier-Lofgren proposal in order to claim sole credit for helping high-tech
firms.

"They want a Republican bill," said Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.). "From their
perspective, I can see why they don't want to pass an important bill to the
technology community that's seen as a Democratic initiative."

Republicans blame Clinton for complicating the issue by introducing the question
of Central American immigration into a debate about visas for high-tech workers.
Several Republicans said privately they do not want to appear insensitive to
Latino concerns during an election year, particularly when the party's presumed
presidential nominee, George W. Bush, is reaching out to Hispanics.

The constant back and forth worries some of the bill's backers. A week ago
American Business for Legal Immigration, a coalition of more than 400
corporations, sent a letter to House members urging them to support swift
passage of the Dreier-Lofgren bill rather than Smith's.

"We're really concerned that people are putting the politics before the
substance," said Sandy Boyd, co-chairman of the coalition. "It's always
distressing to see that urgent, real need possibly overshadowed by election-year
politics."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              185 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     July 1, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 207 words


A June 30 article in the Business section misspelled the name of John Sidgmore,
vice chairman of WorldCom Inc.

A June 30 Business article on H-1B visas misstated the visa levels in
legislation sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Tex.). The House Judiciary
Committee modified it so it would lift the cap on such visas for fiscal 2000,
2001 and 2002. Also, while House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt (D-Mo.) has
announced his support for the bipartisan H-1B visa bill, he has not yet signed
on as a co-sponsor of the measure.

The date for the chamber concert by Carmina and the Washington Cornett &
Sackbutt Ensemble was incorrect in the June 30 Weekend section. The correct date
for the concert is July 8, at St. Columba's Episcopal Church, 4201 Albemarle St.
NW.

A caption accompanying a June 30 article on the storm system chronicled in "The
Perfect Storm" misspelled the name of National Weather Service meteorologist
Louis Uccellini. In some editions, the caption also misspelled the name of
Weather Service meteorologist Bob Case.

A June 24 article about a court case involving an anti-smog regulation
misspelled the name of Patricio Silva, Midwest activities coordinator for the
Natural Resources Defense Council.

LOAD-DATE: July 01, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              186 of 186 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     August 6, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

LIVE ONLINE at washingtonpost.com

SECTION: FINANCIAL; Pg. L01

LENGTH: 254 words



Columnist Carrie Johnson answered questions in an online discussion last Monday.
A sample:


Q: Do you think that the flood of H-1B visa workers coming into the country and
forcing out American workers is responsible for the many horror stories I read
posted on your message boards about graduates and experienced workers who are
unable to get interviews, much less jobs? How can the tech companies say there
are no workers, when so many bright, experienced people are willing to do almost
anything to work? -- Washington


A: Whoa. Hostility watch. I don't see any evidence that people in the U.S. on
H-1B visas are "forcing out American workers." Many American high-tech companies
find themselves in a labor bind because they are not thinking longitudinally,
only focusing on the short-term gain to them by poaching the same batch of
experienced techies from their competitors. There are, as you note, many
"bright, experienced people" willing to fill those gaps--and companies are only
impeding their own progress by failing to train workers or invest in training
nontraditional groups of folks. Many of the foreign-born techies now in the U.S.
are suffering from the same problem--they will not be retrained either.
Xenophobia is one response to the frustrating condition of not being able to
find a job--but it's not the fair one. Direct your anger toward shortsighted
U.S. firms, not foreigners.


Join Carrie Johnson tomorrow at 11 a.m. at washingtonjobs.com at
www.washingtonpost.com.


LOAD-DATE: August 06, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post
