
                               1 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Rights Groups Fight License Proposal;
House Passes Bill to Bar States From Letting Undocumented Residents Drive

BYLINE: Ray Rivera, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 728 words


Latino and immigrant support groups are mobilizing against the proposed Real ID
Act, a federal law that would prohibit states from issuing driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants.

The act, which passed the House yesterday, would have a major impact in
Maryland, one of 11 states where proof of legal presence in the United States is
not required to obtain a license. Before the 2001 terrorist attacks, some states
considered extending driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants to improve
road safety, ensuring that those who drove had passed a state-sanctioned test.

Since 2001, however, licenses have become firmly tied to national security
concerns. Virginia, where seven of the 19 hijackers obtained licenses or ID
cards, is among several states that have since changed their laws. The District
of Columbia requires proof of legal presence for a license.

The Senate is expected to pass the act this month as part of a supplemental
appropriations bill for military operations in Iraq. President Bush has signaled
support for the measure.

Immigrant support groups say Real ID would make roads less safe and could erode
national security, not improve it.

"It will make millions of people that live in our nation hide even more," said
Gustavo Torres, executive director of Casa de Maryland, a Latino advocacy group.
"They are going to keep driving, keep working, but now they are going to be even
more scared to participate in our society, to cooperate with police on crime
issues."

Casa de Maryland, the National Council of La Raza and other groups hope to draw
as many as 5,000 immigrants to a protest rally tomorrow afternoon at Richard
Montgomery High School in Rockville.

Civil liberties groups contend the act would create what amounts to a national
ID card that would make it easier for the federal government to keep tabs on
private citizens.

State officials said they worry that the act would shift the burden  --  and
costs  --  of immigration enforcement from the federal government to the states.
Even states that already require proof of legal presence would have to revamp
their systems to meet the more stringent requirements of the Real ID
legislation.

In Virginia, for example, front-line workers at the Department of Motor Vehicles
are trained to recognize real from forged birth certificates, passports and
immigration documents used to verify "legal presence" in the United States.

Real ID would go further, requiring documents to be compared against federal
databases. States also would have to save copies of identification documents for
seven to 10 years and save facial image scans of each license holder.

In addition to potentially costing the states millions of dollars to implement,
the new measures could mean longer lines at the DMV and spell an end to walk-in,
walk-out service to get a license.

The law would apply to renewals as well.

"The impact of the legislation will be significant," said Pam Goheen,
spokeswoman for the Virginia DMV. "We need to fully evaluate the bill."

The Congressional Budget Office estimates the legislation would cost states $100
million over five years to implement.

But Cheye Calvo, director of the transportation committee of the National
Council of State Legislatures, said the costs to states could be five to seven
times that.

"The cost of verifying these documents alone is incredible," Calvo said. "Then
you have training, security standards, equipment, physical upgrades to the
licenses, biometrics. This stuff doesn't come free."

Bills similar to Real ID have repeatedly failed in the Maryland General
Assembly, frustrating lawmakers who see the issue as central to the U.S. war on
terrorism.

"The most common way you get on a plane in the U.S. is by showing a driver's
license," said Del. Herbert H. McMillan (R-Anne Arundel), who introduced
driver's license bills in the last two legislative sessions. "It attracts a lot
less attention than showing a passport from Saudi Arabia."

For McMillan, the issue is more personal. A 767 pilot with American Airlines, he
flew frequently with Charles Burlingame, the captain of Flight 77, which crashed
into the Pentagon.

Other provisions of Real ID would tighten asylum regulations and tighten
security along the U.S.-Mexican border near San Diego. The bill was introduced
by Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.).

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               2 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Immigration Plan Meets GOP Opposition;
Lawmakers Resist Temporary-Worker Proposal

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1370 words


President Bush's plan to liberalize the nation's immigration laws to allow
millions of undocumented workers the opportunity for legal status appears to be
on a collision course with newly aroused sentiment among House Republicans
pushing for a crackdown on illegal immigration.

Bush describes his immigration proposal as one of the top goals of his second
term, calling it a humane way to get a handle on the nation's mushrooming
illegal immigration problem. Republican strategists, led by White House chief
political adviser Karl Rove, also see the proposal as an important element in
their plan to expand the party's base among the nation's fast-growing Hispanic
population.

The key prong in Bush's plan is a temporary-worker program that would offer the
nation's estimated 10 million illegal immigrants a chance to earn legal status
that would allow them to stay in the country as long as six years. Once they
register as temporary workers, they would be eligible to begin the long process
of applying for citizenship or permanent residency.

"It's a compassionate way to treat people who come to our country. It recognizes
the reality of the world in which we live," Bush said during a news conference
last week. "There are some people -- there are some jobs in America that
Americans won't do and others are willing to do."

But an increasingly vocal group of House Republicans is threatening to undercut
Bush's vision, which the president has discussed with passion but has not
formally advanced since taking office in 2001. Many House Republicans oppose any
effort to grant legal status to undocumented workers, saying it would have the
effect of rewarding law-breakers. Instead, they are seeking to ratchet up
enforcement efforts against undocumented workers, an approach with proven voter
appeal if unproven results when it comes to slowing illegal immigration.

When the new Congress commences this month,  key House Republicans are promising
to push legislation to complete a controversial fence along the Mexican border
near San Diego, to make it tougher for immigrants to attain asylum and to
prevent illegal immigrants from receiving driver's licenses. At the insistence
of Judiciary Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) -- and with the White
House's approval -- Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) has promised to attach
those measures "to the first must-pass legislation" that moves in the House.

Last month, House Republicans wrested a pledge from Bush to cooperate in
enacting tougher immigration provisions by blocking legislation to restructure
the nation's intelligence community. The intelligence bill passed only after
Bush promised to "work with" House Republicans to enact those measures.

Bush's concession meant that Congress will begin the year on an anti-immigration
note, which  promises to continue as many of those pushing for the tough
enforcement measures also are likely to oppose the president's "guest worker"
plan.

"I'm no longer the only person in the caucus bringing the issue of illegal
immigration to the American people," said Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), who heads
the House's 71-member Immigration Reform Caucus, which has a section on its Web
site listing crimes, health problems and other problems it says are caused by
illegal immigrants. "Now others appear to be willing to go to the mat on it."

How the White House plans to reconcile its stated desire for a temporary-worker
program with its pledge to toughen immigration laws is unclear, although some
supporters of Bush's plan say the two goals are not incompatible. Backers of a
guest-worker plan argue that there is no way to effectively crack down on
undocumented workers, given the ineffectiveness of the nation's immigration
laws. The new program, they said, would create incentives for people to enter
the country legally.

Efforts to hold employers accountable for hiring illegal immigrants have been
largely frustrated by a booming industry in forged documents. Attempts to stem
the tide by building a fence and beefing up patrols along the southwestern
border have only shifted much of the flow of illegal immigrants east from
California, often to the rugged Arizona desert. Hundreds of would-be illegal
immigrants have died attempting to make the perilous journey across the
southwestern border, even as an estimated 1 million illegal immigrants make it
into the country each year.

Many supporters say a temporary-worker program would enhance national security
by identifying who is in the country; by boosting the economy with a continuing
supply of highly motivated, low-skill workers; and by helping undocumented
workers avoid exploitation by granting them the protections that come with legal
status. The workers, meanwhile, would be free to return to their home countries,
allowing them to stay connected with their families.

"The idea is to make the system respond to the fact that we have an integrated
labor market that interacts with Mexico and Central America," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrants' rights
group. "You are trying to transform it from a black market, chaotic,
hard-to-control flow to a more orderly, regulated flow."

Still, tougher enforcement provisions are popular among voters, particularly in
areas where residents feel overwhelmed by illegal immigrants. "If the White
House and the Republican establishment think promoting amnesty is good politics,
they are crazy," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which opposes a guest-worker program. "It has the real potential of
turning off their base."

In November, Arizona voters approved a ballot initiative requiring proof of
citizenship or legal residency for people to access a wide array of government
services. The measure passed despite the opposition of some of the state's most
powerful elected officials.

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who opposed the ballot initiative, has argued that
enforcement measures alone will not solve the illegal immigration problem. "If
anyone believes that simply strengthening our borders is the answer to our
nation's illegal immigration problem, they don't understand the problem," he
said as the Senate passed the intelligence bill   last month. "Where there's a
demand, there's going to be a supply."

Bush, who often points out that he was confronted with the complicated politics
surrounding illegal immigration when he was governor of Texas, outlined plans
for a temporary-worker program in the early days of his presidency, but they
were shelved after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The president again
outlined his principles for immigration 11 months ago, but the issue rarely
surfaced during the campaign. The White House has put it back on the table since
Bush's reelection, in which some exit polls found Bush winning more than 40
percent of the Hispanic vote.

"I fully understand the politics of immigration reform. I was the governor of
Texas, right there on the front lines of border politics," Bush said. "I know
what it means to have mothers and fathers come to my state and across the border
of my state to work. Family values do not stop at the Rio Grande River, is what
I used to tell the people of my state."

McCain, who is planning his own immigration legislation that would couple a
guest-worker program and a sharp increase in the number of permanent resident
slots available to unskilled workers with tougher enforcement provisions, met
with Bush on the subject in the days after the election. Such a measure would
likely be successful only with bipartisan support.

Some advocacy groups who champion comprehensive immigration changes are less
concerned about the sentiment among House Republicans than they are about Bush's
commitment to the issue. Although Bush talks movingly about the subject, they
say, he has yet to expend any political capital to push his proposal.

"It's not the House Republicans that so far has not been coming through on
immigration reform," said Ana Avendano, associate general counsel and director
of the Immigrant Worker Program for the AFL-CIO. "It's been the White House."

Staff writer Charles Babington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               3 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 14, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Enter McCain-Kennedy

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 622 words


IMMIGRATION legislation introduced Thursday by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) is not the first, and may not be the last, attempt
to forge a realistic, comprehensive and bipartisan national immigration policy.
In the last Congress, Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Senate Minority Leader
Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) also tried it, and others have introduced bills
containing similar elements. But there are reasons to hope that this bill will
move further. The authors  have struggled, with one another and with widely
varying advocates, to find compromise answers to some of the more difficult
immigration issues.

The bill requires  new investment in border security and technology. But it also
allows employers to hire foreigners under a temporary visa program if they can
prove they are unable to hire American workers for the same job. Visa-holders
will be able to change jobs (which the discredited bracero guest-worker programs
of the past did not allow); will be able to apply to stay (eliminating a
potential source of new illegal immigration), and will be issued tamper-proof
identity documents (ending the use of faked Social Security  numbers).

Most controversially  --  but ultimately sensibly  --  the bill allows illegal
immigrants  already here to regularize their status, but not easily; they would
have to go to the end of the line, and that only after paying a hefty fine,
staying employed for a prescribed period and paying back taxes. The bills'
authors argue that this is not an amnesty, because it requires a recognition of
wrongdoing. They also argue that establishing  the temporary visa will prevent a
new pool of illegal immigrants from arriving because it will become politically
realistic to fine employers who continue to employ illegals. Most of all, this
provision for illegal immigrants makes sense because any legislation that does
not deal with the approximately 10 million illegals will ultimately result in
more lawbreaking.

Although the politics of immigration are convoluted  --  this is an issue that
divides both parties  --  this law has some political points in its favor. While
the White House may not want to pile immigration onto its plate next to Social
Security, the McCain-Kennedy bill does resemble the policy the president
outlined more than a year ago, so it should attract his support. Border state
politicians are clamoring for change, because smuggling and trafficking have
contributed to lawlessness and a real sense of crisis along the border.
Politicians from states that never had major immigration issues in the past,
including Maryland and Virginia, have lately struggled with everything from the
question of driver's licenses for illegals to the need for seasonal workers on
the Chesapeake Bay: They want change, too. Most of all, though, pressure is
coming from security agencies and law enforcement. The illegal immigrants'
underworld is a source of illegal documentation and criminality, and the de
facto open borders are an invitation to terrorists.

There are legitimate concerns about the long-term impact of a law such as this
on American workers. But the economic impact is more complicated than some
immigration opponents claim: Experience has shown that immigration creates jobs
and growth over time, and countries with low immigration, such as Japan, aren't
exactly an advertisement for their policies. There are also legitimate concerns
about social cohesion. But legal workers are much easier to assimilate than
illegals, and the proposed bill requires would-be citizens to know English and
civics. This is a case where common sense and hard-nosed security concerns point
in the same direction, and this bill could lead the way.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               4 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 15, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Enter McCain-Kennedy

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 622 words


IMMIGRATION legislation introduced Thursday by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) is not the first, and may not be the last, attempt
to forge a realistic, comprehensive and bipartisan national immigration policy.
In the last Congress, Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) and Senate Minority Leader
Thomas A. Daschle (D-S.D.) also tried it, and others have introduced bills
containing similar elements. But there are reasons to hope that this bill will
move further. The authors  have struggled, with one another and with widely
varying advocates, to find compromise answers to some of the more difficult
immigration issues.

The bill requires  new investment in border security and technology. But it also
allows employers to hire foreigners under a temporary visa program if they can
prove they are unable to hire American workers for the same job. Visa-holders
will be able to change jobs (which the discredited bracero guest-worker programs
of the past did not allow); will be able to apply to stay (eliminating a
potential source of new illegal immigration), and will be issued tamper-proof
identity documents (ending the use of faked Social Security  numbers).

Most controversially  --  but ultimately sensibly  --  the bill allows illegal
immigrants  already here to regularize their status, but not easily; they would
have to go to the end of the line, and that only after paying a hefty fine,
staying employed for a prescribed period and paying back taxes. The bills'
authors argue that this is not an amnesty, because it requires a recognition of
wrongdoing. They also argue that establishing  the temporary visa will prevent a
new pool of illegal immigrants from arriving because it will become politically
realistic to fine employers who continue to employ illegals. Most of all, this
provision for illegal immigrants makes sense because any legislation that does
not deal with the approximately 10 million illegals will ultimately result in
more lawbreaking.

Although the politics of immigration are convoluted  --  this is an issue that
divides both parties  --  this law has some political points in its favor. While
the White House may not want to pile immigration onto its plate next to Social
Security, the McCain-Kennedy bill does resemble the policy the president
outlined more than a year ago, so it should attract his support. Border state
politicians are clamoring for change, because smuggling and trafficking have
contributed to lawlessness and a real sense of crisis along the border.
Politicians from states that never had major immigration issues in the past,
including Maryland and Virginia, have lately struggled with everything from the
question of driver's licenses for illegals to the need for seasonal workers on
the Chesapeake Bay: They want change, too. Most of all, though, pressure is
coming from security agencies and law enforcement. The illegal immigrants'
underworld is a source of illegal documentation and criminality, and the de
facto open borders are an invitation to terrorists.

There are legitimate concerns about the long-term impact of a law such as this
on American workers. But the economic impact is more complicated than some
immigration opponents claim: Experience has shown that immigration creates jobs
and growth over time, and countries with low immigration, such as Japan, aren't
exactly an advertisement for their policies. There are also legitimate concerns
about social cohesion. But legal workers are much easier to assimilate than
illegals, and the proposed bill requires would-be citizens to know English and
civics. This is a case where common sense and hard-nosed security concerns point
in the same direction, and this bill could lead the way.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               5 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 30, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The Right Immigration Reform

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez

SECTION: Editorial; A19

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: PARK RAPIDS, Minn.


As a young reporter in this part of the country in the early 1990s, I covered
the Latino community, an assignment known in those days as the migrant workers
beat. Back then, most of the Latino workforce this far north headed back home
south of the Rio Grande before winter set in.

Little did I know then that within a few years, the beat would change
dramatically. In 1993, the Clinton administration began efforts to reduce all
illegal crossings of the U.S.-Mexico border, which meant that many Latino
workers ended their circular migration and instead began to live here
year-round. The number of Latino residents in Minnesota has increased more than
166 percent in 15 years, the ninth-fastest growth in the nation.

Immigration reform proposals that ignore this shift do so at their peril. Today
one-third of the estimated 11 million immigrants living in this country
illegally have been doing so for more than a decade. According to the Pew
Hispanic Center, most unauthorized immigrants have their direct families here,
many millions have U.S.-born relatives, and nearly one-third own their primary
residence.

In other words, most illegal Latinos are making the United States their home.
Any proposal that would require these immigrants to give up their homes and
sever their roots in this country will not likely achieve compliance. And
without compliance, what good is reform?

A bill introduced last week by Sens. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.)
shows little concern for getting millions of undocumented immigrants to accept
its terms and yet requires their cooperation for success. The bill demands that
the undocumented present themselves to government officials, pay a fine and
submit to  deportation. Once in their countries of origin, they could  apply for
a new guest-worker program that would grant them a temporary work visa but would
send them back for at least one year once that visa expires. The bill and
especially its "report to deport" strategy is meant to satisfy those who desire
a punitive solution to the dysfunctional U.S. immigration system. The problem is
that those groups in favor of harsh measures may never be satisfied. They see
immigrants as a threat and don't feel safe even among the immigrants' newborn.

The Center for Immigration Studies, one such group, suggests that there is some
kind of imminent danger posed by children born to immigrants. In the conclusion
to a report issued this month, the center indicates that it was the children of
European immigrants that caused "the labor unrest of the Great Depression." And
it was the children of black migrants from the South "who rioted in northern
cities during the 1960s." The White House and Republican Party leaders know that
such extreme views  --  held by some Republicans in Congress  --  are
politically untenable. To distance themselves, they are creating a coalition of
business leaders and immigrant advocates that, according to a report in the Los
Angeles Times this week, would attempt to "marginalize those voices" that could
scare away Latino voters and perhaps jeopardize the Republican majority in
Congress.

While it is unknown where this Americans for Border and Economic Security
coalition stands in regard to immigration reforms before Congress, it would
better serve itself and Republican ambitions by supporting the bipartisan
proposal by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.). The bill,
introduced in May, is the only one that acknowledges the roots that many illegal
immigrants have already put down in this country.

The legislative proposal would encourage illegal immigrants to join a
guest-worker program for up to six years by giving them the opportunity to
obtain legal residence and start on the path to citizenship. Rep. Jim Kolbe
(R-Ariz.), one of the initial co-sponsors of the McCain-Kennedy bill on the
House side, said that allowing for such permanent legalization must be part of
the equation. If the bill offered immigrants only a temporary opportunity to
legalize their situation, many would not take it and would likely "disappear
after that."

The other day, I felt that I had returned to the migrant worker beat when I
spotted a small Latino family at a grocery store here in "northwoods country."
When I was covering this issue years ago, I could be almost certain that such a
family would be among the transient workers who would head south in a few
months, with their sparse belongings in tow. Today, families like this are
buying homes and settling down. These immigrant families are managing to make a
life in this country, just as I did, and I know they appreciate it to such a
degree that they won't give it up easily.

desdewash@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               6 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Groups Fight License Bill;
Measure Would End 11 States' Policy of Letting Undocumented Residents Drive

BYLINE: Ray Rivera, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 728 words


Latino and immigrant support groups are mobilizing against the proposed Real ID
Act, a federal law that would prohibit states from issuing driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants.

The act, which passed the House yesterday, would have a major impact in
Maryland, one of 11 states where proof of legal presence in the United States is
not required to obtain a license. Before the 2001 terrorist attacks, some states
considered extending driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants to improve
road safety, ensuring that those who drove had passed a state-sanctioned test.

Since 2001, however, licenses have become firmly tied to national security
concerns. Virginia, where seven of the 19 hijackers obtained licenses or ID
cards, is among several states that have since changed their laws. The District
of Columbia requires proof of legal presence for a license.

The Senate is expected to pass the act this month as part of a supplemental
appropriations bill for military operations in Iraq. President Bush has signaled
support for the measure.

Immigrant support groups say Real ID would make roads less safe and could erode
national security, not improve it.

"It will make millions of people that live in our nation hide even more," said
Gustavo Torres, executive director of Casa de Maryland, a Latino advocacy group.
"They are going to keep driving, keep working, but now they are going to be even
more scared to participate in our society, to cooperate with police on crime
issues."

Casa de Maryland, the National Council of La Raza and other groups hope to draw
as many as 5,000 immigrants to a protest rally tomorrow afternoon at Richard
Montgomery High School in Rockville.

Civil liberties groups contend the act would create what amounts to a national
ID card that would make it easier for the federal government to keep tabs on
private citizens.

State officials said they worry that the act would shift the burden  --  and
costs  --  of immigration enforcement from the federal government to the states.
Even states that already require proof of legal presence would have to revamp
their systems to meet the more stringent requirements of the Real ID
legislation.

In Virginia, for example, front-line workers at the Department of Motor Vehicles
are trained to recognize real from forged birth certificates, passports and
immigration documents used to verify "legal presence" in the United States.

Real ID would go further, requiring documents to be compared against federal
databases. States also would have to save copies of identification documents for
seven to 10 years and save facial image scans of each license holder.

In addition to potentially costing the states millions of dollars to implement,
the new measures could mean longer lines at the DMV and spell an end to walk-in,
walk-out service to get a license.

The law would apply to renewals as well.

"The impact of the legislation will be significant," said Pam Goheen,
spokeswoman for the Virginia DMV. "We need to fully evaluate the bill."

The Congressional Budget Office estimates the legislation would cost states $100
million over five years to implement.

But Cheye Calvo, director of the transportation committee of the National
Council of State Legislatures, said the costs to states could be five to seven
times that.

"The cost of verifying these documents alone is incredible," Calvo said. "Then
you have training, security standards, equipment, physical upgrades to the
licenses, biometrics. This stuff doesn't come free."

Bills similar to Real ID have repeatedly failed in the Maryland General
Assembly, frustrating lawmakers who see the issue as central to the U.S. war on
terrorism.

"The most common way you get on a plane in the U.S. is by showing a driver's
license," said Del. Herbert H. McMillan (R-Anne Arundel), who introduced
driver's license bills in the last two legislative sessions. "It attracts a lot
less attention than showing a passport from Saudi Arabia."

For McMillan, the issue is more personal. A 767 pilot with American Airlines, he
flew frequently with Charles Burlingame, the captain of Flight 77, which crashed
into the Pentagon.

Other provisions of Real ID would tighten asylum regulations and tighten
security along the U.S.-Mexican border near San Diego. The bill was introduced
by Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.).

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               7 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 10, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 551 words


PHOENIX  --  A federal appeals court refused Tuesday to block part of an Arizona
law that denies some public benefits to illegal immigrants, saying the
plaintiffs had no right to sue.

The voter-approved law appeared on Arizona's November ballot. The portion at
issue bars illegal immigrants from getting certain public benefits and makes it
a crime for public employees to fail to report undocumented immigrants who seek
the benefits.

A separate provision, unaffected by the court challenge, requires people to show
proof of citizenship when registering to vote.

The plaintiffs had asked the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit to rule
that U.S. District Judge David C. Bury had abused his discretion when he refused
to grant a preliminary injunction to stop the law from going into effect until
after a trial  to determine its constitutionality. The appeals court panel
denied their request, saying the plaintiffs had not demonstrated they were hurt
by the law.

The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund had argued that the law
was unconstitutional on the grounds that it usurps the federal government's
power over immigration and naturalization.

Supporters argued it was necessary because Arizona, the busiest illegal entry
point on the country's southern border, spends millions of dollars annually to
provide food stamps, welfare and other social services to illegal immigrants.

*  SAN FRANCISCO  --  A judge refused to set bail for a Muslim cleric from
Pakistan who faces deportation and has been accused of planning to set up a camp
to train followers to kill Americans. Shabbir Ahmed, 39, is charged with
overstaying his visa while he was heading a mosque in Lodi. The allegation about
the terrorist camp came from an FBI agent's testimony during the immigration
hearing.

*  TOPEKA, Kan.  --  The Kansas Board of Education voted 6 to 4 to include
greater criticism of evolution in its school science standards, but it decided
to send the standards to an outside academic for review before taking a final
vote, probably in October.

*  HOUSTON  --  FBI agents arrested Elias Jeremiah Cervantez, 20, of San
Antonio, for allegedly writing on a gum wrapper that there was a bomb aboard a
Southwest Airlines flight last Friday. If convicted, Cervantez faces up to five
years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

*  SACRAMENTO  --  A state appeals court refused to put Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger's attempt to change the redistricting process on November's
special election ballot because supporters used two  versions of the initiative.
The measure seeks to shift responsibility for drawing congressional and
legislative boundaries from the legislature to a panel of retired judges.

*  COLUMBUS, Ohio  --  Charles McCoy Jr., 29, pleaded guilty to involuntary
manslaughter and 10 other charges in Ohio highway shooting incidents and was
sentenced to 27 years in prison.

*  LAWRENCEVILLE, Ga.  --  Instead of cutting out of town, runaway bride
Jennifer Wilbanks is cutting lawns. Wearing an orange community service vest,
Wilbanks did part of her court-ordered community service for lying to police
after she ran off days before her wedding. Her mower kept dying in the tall, wet
grass, and after the eighth time she had to restart it, her sigh was audible.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               8 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A Look at the Issues

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 178 words


Beginning today, The Post will spotlight several political issues that have been
prominent during the 2005 campaign. Today's topic: illegal immigration.

Background Virginia is home to more than 200,000 illegal immigrants, up 50,000
from 1996, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

The General Assembly has passed several laws that would limit illegal
immigrants' access to state services. This summer, the Northern Virginia town of
Herndon approved creation of a publicly funded center for day laborers, some of
whom may be in the country illegally.

The Debate Republican gubernatorial candidate Jerry W. Kilgore has supported
efforts to cut off public services for illegal immigrants. Last month, he said
public funds should not be used for the Herndon center. Democratic candidate
Timothy M. Kaine called such an approach "mean-spirited" and said it was the
federal government's responsibility to enforce immigration laws.

The Race The state's next governor, who will be elected Nov. 8, might sign into
law or veto bills that affect illegal immigrants in Virginia.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                               9 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 14, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Visa Issues Vex Tech Workers, Their Employers

BYLINE: Ellen McCarthy

SECTION: Financial; E01 , DIGITAL CAPITAL Ellen McCarthy

LENGTH: 943 words


Dawn M. Lurie knows how to wake up her audiences when she briefs personnel
managers on immigration law: She points out that in some cases, executives could
face criminal penalties for hiring immigrants without the right visas.

"That's usually a shocker for people," said Lurie, an immigration lawyer at
Greenberg Traurig LLP's McLean office. Lurie's seminars touch on such topics as
making sure window washers are legal workers and the compliance requirements for
subcontractors.

But when she met last week with a small group of human resource professionals
from tech companies and government contractors, one of the topics of most
concern was the shortage of special visas, known as H-1Bs, for highly skilled
workers.

These visas allow companies to hire foreign professionals with training in
fields that have too few qualified U.S. workers. The category has been used to
recruit physicists, financial analysts and creative designers, but it's known
primarily for bringing foreign engineers and information technology workers to
the United States.

During the dot-com boom, when skilled tech workers were in hot demand, Congress
increased the cap on how many H-1B visas could be issued. From 65,000 a year in
the early 1990s, the cap was expanded to 115,000 a year in 1999 and 2000 and
expanded again to 195,000 a year for 2001-03.

But after the tech bubble popped, the industry started purging workers, and the
cap was allowed to revert to its original level. The result as the tech economy
has begun to recover: The visa limit for 2004 was reached by February, and a
backlog of requests started building at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services office. On Oct. 1, the first day that visas for 2005 could be approved,
all 65,000 for next year were issued.

Now, no H1-B visas are available for companies that want to sponsor foreign
professionals, Lurie told those attending the seminar, held in Tysons Corner.
"So that's a problem."

Tech industry associations and companies lobbying to relax the restrictions
argue that they need access to highly skilled professionals who remain in short
supply in the U.S. workforce.

"You might have a man or woman who calls themselves a tech worker, but if their
skills are 10 or 15 years out of date, that's not much help for the company,"
said Jeff Lande, senior vice president of the Arlington-based Information
Technology Association of America. "If we don't do this, not only do we hurt
U.S. competitiveness, but we also ultimately hurt U.S. workers because companies
are less competitive globally."

That argument doesn't fly with experienced tech professionals who are still out
of work. They say they are already under enough international pressure from the
growth in offshore outsourcing of U.S. jobs. IEEE-USA, an engineering
association based in the District, is encouraging members to lobby Congress to
keep the current caps in place. "We continue to be concerned about
unemployment," said Vin O'Neil, IEEE-USA's legislative representative. And until
there are significant job gains, he added, it's "difficult for us to support an
increase in the cap . . . because it increases the competition for available
jobs."

Proponents of expanding the H-1B program contend that doing so is necessary to
combat a brain drain from the United States. In many cases, they say, foreign
students graduate from U.S. universities, then are forced to return home because
they can't get H-1B visas for jobs in this country. Their U.S. education becomes
a boon to tech industries abroad. A bill introduced by Rep. Lamar S. Smith
(R-Tex.) would allow an extra 20,000 visas to be awarded to graduates of U.S.
higher education programs.

Administrators of information technology departments at local colleges say
there's another visa problem that won't be solved by more H-1Bs for their
international graduates: Bureaucratic hurdles in getting student visas have
increased dramatically since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, deterring
some foreign students from enrolling.

George L. Donahue, professor of systems engineering and operations research at
George Mason University, said one of his most talented PhD candidates is a
student from Vietnam who returned home last Christmas to visit her mother for
the first time in four years. When she went to the U.S. embassy to get her visa
renewed, she was told her background had to be investigated more fully before
she could return to the United States. The student was stuck in Vietnam for
three months, missing much of the semester while paying rent on an empty
apartment.

Stories like this get around quickly, Donahue said. The number of foreign
students in graduate programs at GMU's School of Information Technology and
Engineering dropped from 598 in the fall of 2002 to 503 in the fall of 2003.
Last year, about half of the computer science graduate students at the
University of Maryland were from other countries, said Samir Khuller, chair of
the program. This year only a third of the 33 students are non-U.S. citizens,
and many of them report that their peers are choosing programs in Europe and
Australia to avoid visa headaches, Khuller said.

"We've always told people to send us their best and their brightest, but we've
just sent a very different signal. It's going to have a big effect 20 years from
now," said Donahue of GMU.

He argues that the restrictions on foreign tech students and workers will hurt
the U.S. tech sector. "The industry will go where the talent is -- it'll all go
offshore and we're just going to be buyers."

Ellen McCarthy writes about the local tech scene every other Thursday. Her
e-mail address is mccarthye@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              10 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 28, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Our Sad Neglect of Mexico

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez

SECTION: Editorial; A25

LENGTH: 760 words


Whether you believe Mexican immigrants help or hurt the United States, there is
one truth you have to accept: Work here pays much, much better. A low-skill
Mexican worker earns five to six times as much in this country as back home,
assuming he or she could find a comparable job there.

This truth is so obvious it seems a cliche and yet it remains mostly absent from
the debate on how to reform U.S. immigration. For all the talk around the
country of border enforcement, guest-worker programs, employer sanctions and
driver's license restrictions, the sad fact is that none of these "solutions"
addresses the root of the problem: a persistent and large income disparity
between the United States and Mexico.

Even the most comprehensive and progressive immigration reform proposal in
years, introduced this month by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward Kennedy
(D-Mass.), is more concerned with making U.S. immigration policy more humane
than dealing with this income disparity. The bill crafts a guest-worker program
--  creating new visa categories and quotas and a secure identification system
for employers  --  but provides only a vague indication that income disparity
might be a problem or a responsibility to take on.

Why such reluctance? How can a proposal that purports to reduce the flow of
illegal Mexican workers to the United States not take a stab at the root cause?
Won't better conditions for immigrant workers here only be an invitation for
more illegal migrants from Mexico, as the argument goes, as long as wage
disparity remains unaddressed?

To alter income disparity, it is obvious that Mexico must reduce its development
gap and raise incomes. What is just as apparent is that Americans do not feel,
at least at the moment, that they have a responsibility or even an interest in
reducing that gap through investments of money and expertise. They don't feel
the same obligation they once felt, say, after World War II for Europe, or that
the European Union took on when it bolstered its poorest members. Mexico and the
United States may share a 2,000-mile border, but their sense of a shared future
runs about two inches deep.

There is a strong sense in this country that Mexico's problems are of its own
making, and must be solved by Mexico. That is why former Bush official Richard
A. Falkenrath and others say a significant infusion of U.S. aid into Mexico is a
"nonstarter." Indeed, Mexico desperately needs to collect more taxes and reform
its energy sector and labor laws  --  healing itself by removing structural
constraints that make it more a Third World  nation than the economic powerhouse
it could become.

The North American Free Trade Agreement, signed more than 10 years ago by
Canada, Mexico and the United States, was supposed to generate more jobs in
Mexico, raise salaries and reduce people's incentive to emigrate. That proved to
be wishful thinking. In fact, NAFTA has not generated the number of new jobs
predicted, nor has it alleviated rural poverty in many areas of Mexico. That
would require, according to an upcoming report on NAFTA by the Institute for
International Economics, "a sustained period of strong growth and substantial
income transfers to poorer states."

There are some in this country, a minority to be sure, who say Washington must
get involved more directly. Otherwise, they argue, Mexico won't be able to
reduce disparities for at least another hundred years. Among them is Robert
Pastor, a former Carter administration official who has tirelessly argued for a
North American Investment Fund. Pastor cites a 2000 World Bank estimate that
Mexico would need $20 billion per year for a decade in essential infrastructure
and educational projects to reduce that 100 years to 10.

Pastor is under no illusions that such a fund will be created any time soon.
Certainly the Bush administration is not talking about any such ideas within the
recently launched Security and Prosperity Partnership of North America, the
latest ambitiously named project that won't even touch on immigration, although
immigration is directly connected to security and prosperity.

The administration and Congress are under little pressure to deepen the U.S.
commitment to Mexico, not when the public is increasingly fearful of and
resentful toward immigrants, particularly Mexicans. But if anything, such
sentiments prolong illegal immigration in the sense that they distract citizens
and leaders alike into thinking that if you put up enough barriers, Mexicans
will go away.

desdewash@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              11 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 4, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Human Smuggler Cast As a Hometown Hero;
To N.J. Community, Store Owner Tao Lin Is Freedom Fighter for Bringing Kin From
China

BYLINE: Michelle Garcia, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1155 words

DATELINE: HIGHLAND PARK, N.J.


In the drama of illegal immigration, the smuggler plays the most unsympathetic
character. Reviled as a profiteer in human desperation, the smuggler rarely
attracts the support and forgiveness of the public.

Tao "Andy" Lin seems to fit the part. He charged six Chinese people large sums
of money to smuggle them into the United States. He was arrested, and two years
ago, Lin, 37, pleaded guilty to bribery and smuggling and was sentenced to 18
months. Now, he is waiting to see if an immigration judge revokes his green card
and deports him to China.

None of which explains why an orthodox Jewish woman sits outside the immigration
courtroom during Lin's hearings, praying for him as she knits a scarf. Or why
the mayor of Highland Park, where Lin owns a popular downtown store, travels
nearly two hours to Manhattan to observe the immigration hearings.

Lin, in short, is a convicted smuggler who has become an unlikely hometown hero.
Many residents here have rallied behind him; they have signed petitions, created
a Web site (www.bringandyhome.com) and organized caravans to help dozens of
neighbors attend his immigration hearings.

As the cause has gained momentum, Lin's case has triggered the collective
conscience of this borough in central New Jersey. Some see Lin as a freedom
fighter trying to liberate his relatives from an oppressive government. Others
say they hear echoes of their families' immigrant pasts.

"I can't tell you how many people talk about their grandparents and Europe,"
said Mayor Meryl Frank, when describing the sidewalk chatter about Lin. "My
community has a lot of survivors of war in Africa and descendants from the
Holocaust, and they talk about difficult situations their families were in and
how they walked across borders."

Residents here are not hopeless romantics. Most agree that Lin broke the law.
But they argue that justice was done when Lin served his prison sentence.

Immigration officials and court documents tell another story. Lin became the
target of a federal sting operation in May 2000 after an informant tagged him  a
"known smuggler." That autumn, Lin purchased falsified travel documents from an
undercover immigration agent, in a scheme to smuggle six Chinese into the United
States. He charged each person $20,000 for the illegal entry, which included a
plane ticket to Newark International Airport. They were later taken into custody
by immigration officials.

Federal immigration officials describe Lin as an ambitious and greedy human
smuggler, with designs on extending his lucrative enterprise into South America.

"He's duping the public," said Michael Drewniak, spokesman for the U.S.
Attorney's Office in Newark, adding that Lin never mentioned that family members
were the human cargo he sought to transport. "This was a pure profit-driven
human smuggling operation, and to now suggest otherwise is an effort to distort
the truth and prevent his deportation."

Lin's wife, Lingyan Zuang,  a naturalized citizen, insists that when an
undercover officer offered to sell her husband forged documents, he jumped at
the chance to help family members living in Fujian province. Zuang, 36, said her
husband faces great risks because of his role as a student leader in the 1989
pro-democracy movement in the year of the Tiananmen Square protests, and she
offered photos of Lin at a demonstration in China to support the claim.

But Steven Wong, an expert on human smuggling in Manhattan's Chinatown,
cautioned that in the Chinese underworld, smugglers often capitalize on
political sympathies. Smugglers, he said, will invoke everything from, "You are
political prisoner, to victim of the one-child policy to, 'I practice Falun
Gong.' "

All of this sounds quite damning. But the facts are seen in a very different
light in Highland Park, where 15,000 residents fit snugly into two square miles
across a winding river from Rutgers University. People here like to say that
university professors live in Highland Park -- and so do the janitors. More than
70 languages are spoken here, and residents relish the small-town feel that
comes with strolling by kosher bakeries and corner malt shops.

Most folks eventually find their way to Lin's dollar store, nicknamed "the Buck
Stops Here." When the Orthodox Jewish women needed special baskets for their
bagel and cream cheese arrangements, they ran to  Dollar City  for help.
Supporters believe that when Lin's family wanted to leave China, his generous
spirit led him astray.

"He just wanted to help; that's his nature," said Georgie London, a regular at
Lin's store who knitted a blue and white scarf outside the immigration
courtroom. "I guess that's what got him in trouble."

Many in the community see a contradiction in deporting a man who sought to
satisfy the thirst for freedom of his countrymen. It was not too long ago  that
Chinese students poured into the streets with cries for democracy and Americans
cheered them on, said Tina Weishouse, a psychiatrist.

"I think there is an irony that we celebrated that movement and people getting
smuggled out of China," Weishouse said. "There's a tremendous hypocrisy;  if
people were smuggling out of Cuba, [President] Bush would probably make them a
hero."

Many Highland Park residents have experienced their own immigration woes. A
local rabbi struggles with an expired visa. A downtown artist underwent the
lengthy green card process for her husband. And Miriam Shabib, a retired social
worker, remembers her father's stories of the strangers who helped him and other
Jews flee counterrevolutionary mobs in Russia in the 1920s.

Ask her about Lin's violations, and she shrugs. "I don't know how my father got
out of Russia, went to Germany and then ended up in Philadelphia," she said.
"Immigrants do things to help each other."

Still, not all offer unstinting support for Lin. Smuggling "is illegal and
inhumane and unethical," said Ana Soto-Canino, whose art studio is down the
block from Lin's store. "They would have to look at each case in turn. That's
why we have the courts."

The next hearing in Lin's immigration case is scheduled for today. Lin's
attorney and human rights researchers warn  that Lin could face a harsh future
if he is returned to China. "It would be quite reasonable to expect he would
face severe criminal penalties in China, which might even include execution,"
said Sara Davis, a researcher at Human Rights Watch.

That fear is tangible to some residents here. Adebayo "Christopher" Davies
agonized several years ago over his wife's safety after she hurled criticism
against the government of their country of origin, Sierra Leone. Davies said the
community is not excusing Lin but simply worrying about his future.

"I'm just looking at what happened to our own little country," Davies said.
"When they told me that he was a political activist, I know exactly what would
be the outcome if he would go back."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              12 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Powell Cautious About Immigration Changes;
Bush Will Give Plan 'High Priority,' Mexicans Told

BYLINE: Glenn Kessler and Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 837 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY Nov. 9


Secretary of State Colin L. Powell gave Mexican officials a sober report Tuesday
on the prospects of winning congressional approval to grant legal status to
millions of undocumented aliens in the United States. He said President Bush
would place a "high priority" on pushing his stalled plan through Congress, but
he said he did not want to "overpromise" success.

Bush unveiled the plan 10 months ago, but it received a lukewarm reception on
Capitol Hill and the administration made little effort to promote it during the
election year. In last week's election, Bush received about 44 percent of the
Hispanic vote, up from 35 percent in 2000, exit polls indicated. Mexican
President Vincente Fox has made it clear that he hopes to seize the moment to
achieve an agreement on migration.

In 2001, Fox said he was looking for the "whole enchilada" on immigration. But
Powell told the Televisa television network Tuesday that that phrase created
impossible expectations. "We are taking little bites of the enchilada, and not
the whole enchilada at once," he said.

Bush's plan would make the 8 million undocumented immigrants in the United
States eligible for temporary legal status for at least six years, as long as
they are employed. But it would not automatically put them on a path to
obtaining citizenship or even permanent resident status. Bush has said most
"temporary workers" would eventually have to leave the United States.

Since Bush's reelection, Fox has repeatedly said he believes the climate favors
progress on immigration reform in the United States, which is Mexico's top
foreign policy priority. The terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, derailed Fox's
earlier hopes of reaching a broad agreement.

Powell and Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge met with Fox for 30 minutes. A
spokesman for Fox, Agustin Gutierrez Canet, said later that Fox "expressed
satisfaction with the announcement that the U.S. government is going to give a
high priority to migration reform during the second Bush term."

Many Mexicans remain skeptical that the United States is serious about
immigration reform, particularly after strong Republican gains in Congress in
last week's elections. Republican lawmakers have been among the biggest skeptics
of Bush's plan. In another sign of American sentiments, Arizona voters approved
a referendum cracking down on illegal aliens receiving public benefits.

"Fox is absolutely crazy to think anything will happen on migration," said Jorge
Montaño, a former Mexican ambassador to the United States. "I thought we had
learned that lesson, but I guess we did not. He's trying to sell the same thing
he was trying to sell four years ago, and I don't think it's something that
people will swallow in the United States."

Powell, who was joined by five fellow members of Bush's Cabinet for the annual
U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission meeting, opened the session by declaring that
"the president is committed to comprehensive immigration reform as a high
priority in his second term, and he will work closely with our Congress to
achieve this goal."

Later, at a news conference, Powell said that migration had been a difficult
issue to tackle in an election year but that he sensed the ground had shifted.

"Now that our election is over and we also are coming out of the 9/11 period and
doing a better job of securing our borders, and as we have the president
reelected for a second term and a new Congress coming in as well, we think that
the environment has improved significantly for this kind of reform," he said.

Powell added, "At the same time, we don't want to overpromise." He said the
administration "will make an assessment with the new Congress of the pace at
which we can proceed with the temporary work programs, and how fast and how far
we can move and over what period of time." But Denise Dresser, a political
scientist here, said Mexico "is just dreaming" to believe it will win
significant immigration reforms in the United States. She said no amount of
pressure exerted by Mexico would affect the immigration debate, which she said
was strictly a U.S. domestic political issue.

"Bush will pursue it if he thinks it will help the Republican Party," she said.
"Fox keeps stumbling over the same stone over and over again. He sees this visit
as the possibility of what was put in a drawer being taken out again. I think
he's deluded to believe that."

Geronimo Gutierrez, head of North American affairs in the Mexican Foreign
Ministry, said Mexico understands that the debate over immigration has changed
in the United States since 2001. Immigration is now viewed mainly as a homeland
security issue, he said, and Mexico has argued that creating a "safe, legal and
orderly" flow of workers into the United States improves security.

"We have had unprecedented levels of cooperation on border security issues,"
Gutierrez said. "The United States is appreciative of what we have been able to
accomplish on border security, which is linked to the broader immigration
issue."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              13 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 31, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Disabled Teen From Guinea Denied Asylum;
Rights Groups Watch Case

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 381 words


An immigration judge in Virginia has denied political asylum to a mildly
retarded teenager whose case has highlighted the plight of thousands of children
who arrive in the country illegally.

Christopher Nugent, an attorney for Malik Jarno, said Judge Joan V. Churchill of
the federal immigration court in Arlington issued a written opinion Wednesday.
He said he had not yet received a copy. He planned to appeal.

"I'm stunned, but have an unyielding optimism that sooner or later this orphan
of the world . . . will receive a final home," Nugent said.

Jarno fled his native Guinea in 1998, after his brother disappeared and his
father was slain by government forces because he belonged to a political
opposition group, human rights workers say. His mother died when he was young.

Jarno sought a home with relatives in Europe, but they didn't want to raise a
mentally disabled youth, his attorneys say. So they put him on a plane to Dulles
International Airport, where he arrived in early 2001 at the age of 16 and with
a fake passport.

Jarno spent nearly three years in jail as his asylum claim proceeded; at one
point, officials lost track of his case, leaving him in jail for nine months
without a hearing.

But his asylum bid eventually was taken up by a team of pro-bono lawyers, and
his treatment received widespread publicity. More than 70 members of Congress
have written to the Department of Homeland Security to support him, and his
cause has been  supported by Amnesty International and other groups. He was
released last year to a home for refugees in York, Pa., where he attends high
school.

Charles Miller, a spokesman for the Department of Justice, which oversees the
immigration courts, confirmed that Jarno had been denied asylum. He said he had
no further information.

However, an official at Homeland Security, which contested Jarno's petition,
said the judge issued a 135-page ruling stating that the youth hadn't met the
standards for asylum. The judge concluded that the witnesses and evidence
presented on his behalf contradicted his claims, the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.

The judge also turned down a petition to stay Jarno's deportation because of the
possibility that he could be tortured if he is sent home, the youth's attorney
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              14 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 25, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Localities Pulled Into Immigrant Control;
Officers Checking Criminals' Status

BYLINE: Ben Fox, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif.


Frustrated by illegal immigrant criminals who slip their grasp, a growing number
of state and county police agencies nationwide are moving to join a federal
program that enlists local officers to enforce immigration laws.

The federal government has granted that authority in Florida and Alabama, and
the program is under consideration in Connecticut, Oklahoma and Arkansas.

It is also in the works in Southern California  --  one of the nation's most
ethnically diverse regions  --  where it would reverse a long-standing local
police policy of avoiding questions about immigration status during criminal
investigations.

Immigrant rights groups argue that the move would  discourage people from
reporting domestic violence or other crimes for fear of deportation and that it
would lead to racial profiling and other abuses.

"We're 100 percent against it," said Amin David, president of Los Amigos of
Orange County. "It will have a chilling effect on our community."

Orange County Sheriff Michael S.  Carona is proposing the largest use of the
program in the country. He wants to train as many as 500 deputies to catch
illegal immigrants who have had criminal convictions.

Under the plan, officers would only check the status of people in jail or under
investigation for serious crimes.

"We're just taking advantage of another law enforcement tool to take bad guys
off the street," Carona said.

The proposal drew overwhelming opposition when Carona presented it last week to
leaders of community groups.

"If he embarks on this, we fear it will spread to other local agencies and then
we'll have chaos," David said.

In neighboring Los Angeles County, the sheriff's department has approval to
train seven civilian employees this summer for a six-month pilot program to
identify jail inmates who are eligible for deportation.

About 30 percent of the 18,000 inmates in Los Angeles County custody are
foreign-born, but only two federal agents are assigned to determine who should
be deported. Meanwhile, crowding has prompted the county to release 200,000
inmates in the past three years before their sentences were completed.

"Our goal is to get them off the street and out of the country so local
resources aren't spent on these individuals," sheriff's Lt. Margarito Robles
said.

An estimated 465,000 people in this country have gone into hiding after
receiving deportation orders, including as many as 85,000 immigrants who have
been convicted of a crime, said Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement.

The agency has only 4,000 detention and removal officers and 6,000 special
agents to find those to be deported as well as handle other crimes.

"Even if we doubled the number of ICE agents, there wouldn't be enough," said
Kris W. Kobach, a law professor at the University of Missouri at Kansas City who
helped set up the program in Alabama while serving as counsel to then-Attorney
General John D. Ashcroft.

Using local authorities to enforce immigration law has been allowed since 1996,
when it was approved as part of a broad immigration bill. No local agencies
participated until 2002, when 35 state and local officers in Florida completed
the training and were authorized to take action on immigration violations in
domestic terrorism investigations.

Alabama trained its first 21 officers in 2003 to deal with what officials called
a lack of attention by the federal government to illegal immigration in that
state.

State troopers have used the expanded enforcement powers to arrest more than 100
people, including a Mexican man captured during a traffic stop who was wanted
for murder in his country and a Nigerian woman using a fraudulent passport to
get a driver's license, said Haran Lowe, a lawyer for the Alabama Department of
Public Safety.

In Danbury, Conn., Mayor Mark D. Boughton recently urged his state to join the
program,  citing the strain on government services caused by the growing illegal
immigrant population in the New York City suburb.

"The federal government has an inability to do its job as it relates to
immigration," Boughton said. "The fact of the matter is that this is out of
control."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              15 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bishops Change Tactics On Illegal Immigrants;
Catholic Campaign Seeks Lay Backing

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 670 words


U.S. Catholic bishops launched a campaign yesterday to change the country's
immigration system, saying they would reach into the pews to build support for
proposals that would grant residence to millions of people here illegally.

"Our immigration system is badly broken and needs repair," said Cardinal
Theodore E. McCarrick, archbishop of Washington, speaking at a news conference
announcing the campaign.

McCarrick also said that the U.S. bishops were disturbed by a growing
"anti-immigrant fervor" since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which he
said was expressed in TV and radio shows and in more restrictive immigration
laws.

"Before we can change our laws, we must change attitudes, including those of
many of our own flock," he said.

Catholics make up about one-quarter of the U.S. population. Officials with the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops said the campaign is aimed at the roughly 30
percent of U.S. Catholics who do not have strong opinions about immigration.  An
additional 25 percent to 30 percent are likely to share the church's views on
immigration policy, while the rest are firmly opposed, officials said.

Yesterday's announcement appeared to reflect a shift in tactics for the Catholic
Church. For years, its leaders have supported proposals to give legal status to
undocumented workers but the new campaign focuses on the grass roots by, for
example, providing outlines of sermons to priests and enlisting Catholic lay
groups to promote the church's message, officials said.

"Every diocese, hopefully, will have its own program," said McCarrick, who is a
consultant to the bishops' committee on migration.

What effect those programs will have is unclear. Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which is critical of U.S.
immigration levels, said he doubted many Catholics would be swayed.

"When the political climate changes for other reasons, as it's now doing because
of concerns for security, the law will change, and there's really not that much
the Catholic bishops can do about that," he said.

He added that it was "unseemly" that the bishops were announcing their program
just days before Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) are
expected to introduce sweeping immigration legislation, including a guest-worker
program.

The bishops' statement "is clearly coordinated with this week's release of the
Kennedy-McCain bill," Krikorian said.

Mark Franken, executive director of Migration and Refugee Services for the
bishops conference, denied any such coordination, saying the church initiative
had been in the works since last summer.

President Bush has urged Congress to establish a guest-worker program that would
absorb at least some of the country's 8 million or more illegal immigrants. But
many Republican legislators have resisted, believing it would reward people
working without authorization.

The bishops' campaign reflects the dramatic change wrought in the U.S. Catholic
Church by decades of high immigration levels. The church is about 40 percent
Latino, including both immigrants and U.S.-born citizens. About 300,000
Catholics immigrate legally to the United States every year, according to the
bishops conference. Tens of thousands of others move to the country illegally.

McCarrick said priests and Catholic organizations  are being asked for help
constantly by immigrants who lack legal status or who have been separated from
their families for years because of delays in processing immigration
applications.

"Our people have these problems every day," he said.

McCarrick, when asked about his view of Bush's immigration proposal, said that
it provided workers with a route toward legalization but "doesn't go far enough"
to help families divided because of immigration problems.

Asked whether it was realistic to think the church would succeed at a time when
many Americans are wary of high immigration levels, McCarrick smiled. "Hay que
soñar," he said in Spanish. You have to dream.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              16 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 21, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ramsey Reaffirms a Ban On Citizenship Questions To Ease Immigrants' Fear

BYLINE: Chris Aguilar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T03

LENGTH: 436 words


To help subdue the fears of illegal immigrants who are crime victims or
witnesses, D.C. police Chief Charles H. Ramsey recently reaffirmed the
department's policy  barring officers from asking people about their citizenship
status.

"Officers are strictly prohibited from making inquires into citizenship or
residency status for the purpose of determining whether an individual has
violated the civil immigration laws or for the purpose of enforcing those laws,"
Ramsey said in a statement earlier this month.

"If some of our residents are reluctant to interact with the police, because
they fear we are there to enforce civil immigration laws, then all hopes for
partnership and cooperation are lost, and what really suffers most is the safety
of the entire community."

Ramsey said the policy was being reaffirmed because many people are unaware of
it or misunderstand it. "In conversations with the Latino community, we agreed
to keep this policy at the forefront and keep reminding people of the importance
of it," he said.

Ramsey said police will continue to pursue suspects regardless of citizenship
and immigration status. "If someone is violating the law and they're
undocumented, we will report them to the INS, but we can only prosecute the
criminal charges, and we let the INS do what they want about the immigration
issues," he said.

Police spokesman Enrique Rivera said Hispanics particularly "are targeted by
criminals, especially on days in which they are paid."

Immigration interest groups praised Ramsey's policy.

Michele Waslin, director of immigration policy research for the National Council
of La Raza, said everyone, not just undocumented people, benefits from it. "All
of us are less safe when people don't come forward to be witnesses or report
crime" because they are in the country illegally, she said. "I'm glad the MPD
has reaffirmed this policy, and I hope they will continue to abide by it."

Other police departments in the region that serve areas with high immigrant
populations have similar policies.

"You don't have to be a citizen to be a victim. We want people to come forward
without fear," said Officer Richard Henry, a spokesman for the Fairfax County
Police Department. "Our policy is not to ask a person's resident status, and
even if we did, they don't have to tell us."

Julia Gilroy, public information officer for the Montgomery County police, said
its policy is similar to that of the District and Fairfax. "If we find out
they're committing a crime, we do notify federal officials," she said, "but we
don't enforce the immigration law, only the criminal charges."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              17 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 21, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Good for Day Laborers, Good for Herndon

SECTION: Editorial; B08

LENGTH: 618 words


On Wednesday night the Herndon Town Council approved the creation of a formal
day-laborer site after weeks of contentious debate [front page, Aug. 18]  --
but not before this local issue became a rallying point for advocates for
national immigration reform. For example:

*  Erin Anderson appeared before the council to say that 3,000 illegal
immigrants a night pass through a valley in southern Arizona, where her family
owns land, and that some of these immigrants were coming to Virginia. She
lectured the Herndon Planning Commission about how illegal immigrants spread
diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, leprosy and HIV.

*  Mark Williams, a radio talk show host from Sacramento, who is carried locally
by WMAL-AM, told his listeners to call Herndon to urge the rejection of the
planned day-laborer site. Another WMAL-AM talk show host, Chris Core, termed
Herndon a beachhead for the national battle for immigration reform and broadcast
live one night from outside the council chambers.

*  Judicial Watch threatened to file suit against Herndon over the center,
claiming that it is illegal to build a facility that could encourage illegal
immigration.

*  The Federation for American Immigration Reform opposed public support for the
center, claiming that lawmakers should not help illegal immigrants.

All these critics saw a chance to get attention for their views, but they all
missed the point.

First, Herndon officials are in no position to investigate or enforce federal
immigration laws.

Second, most local residents who objected to the proposed day-laborer site did
so based on its location, not on some philosophical or political objection.
Opponents living near the proposed site worried about the possible adverse
effect on their neighborhood, but many said that they did not oppose Herndon's
plan to set up a formal site for day laborers at another location.

Third, and most important, the town rightfully was seeking to improve the
horrendous conditions  --  a local problem  --  facing Herndon's day laborers.

More than 53 percent of day laborers in Fairfax County have reported at least
one instance of not being paid for their work, and 26 percent report being paid
with bad checks. Almost 55 percent of those surveyed by the county said they
were paid less than had been agreed, and nearly 60 percent were allowed no
breaks when working. Twenty-two percent reported having been abandoned at a work
site to find their own way home, and 16 percent said they faced violence at
work.

These findings are consistent with a recent study of area day laborers  --
including those in Herndon  --  by the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at
the University of California, Los Angeles. This study found that the average
wage of a day laborer in the D.C. area was $991 a month. That figure was based
on June 2004, a warm-weather month, when work is more plentiful.

Day laborers in Herndon live an average of 1.7 miles from the informal site
where they have been congregating, making many of them Herndon residents. They
are husbands, fathers and sons seeking to support themselves and their families.
They desire a good education for their children. They have aspirations to better
their lives. They are part of Herndon.

The decision by the Town Council to develop a regulated site for these day
laborers came after a full and open debate on the plan. Although Loudoun County
is now threatening to block construction of the center over zoning issues, to
treat these workers with dignity and justice was the right decision, and it will
improve and strengthen Herndon.

--  Charles Greenfield

is executive director of Legal Services of Northern Virginia.

cgreenfield@lsnv.org

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              18 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 25, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Kilgore Repeats Opposition to Laborer Centers

BYLINE: Nikita Stewart, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 737 words


Republican gubernatorial candidate Jerry W. Kilgore spoke yesterday in Chantilly
to a group of Hispanic business owners from Virginia, reaffirming his opposition
to taxpayer-funded day-laborer centers, which he said will support "illegal
immigration."

Kilgore fanned local and national tensions about immigration policy more than
two weeks ago when he opposed Herndon's plans  --  since approved  --  to
publicly fund a center where workers can congregate as they seek day jobs.
Presuming that many day laborers in the town are undocumented immigrants,
Kilgore said yesterday that providing such services to them can "denigrate the
achievements of our legal immigrants."

"It lets our new citizens think there is no reason to follow the law," Kilgore
said. Illegal immigrants should not be allowed "to cut in line" for public
services.

Kilgore received mainly a warm reception from the two dozen audience members,
many of them entrepreneurs who applauded loudly during his 30-minute speech. The
Virginia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, based in Richmond, sponsored the
nonpartisan meet-the-candidate event. The group met with Kilgore's Democratic
opponent, Lt. Gov Timothy M. Kaine, who speaks fluent Spanish, in late April.
The chamber also plans to schedule a session with H. Russell Potts Jr., a
Republican state senator from Winchester who is running as an independent.

Kilgore's strong opposition to illegal immigration is long-standing. As state
attorney general, he endorsed denying in-state tuition to undocumented
immigrants and restricting their access to Virginia driver's licenses. He also
supported a law that will require local and state governments to check the legal
status of anyone older than 19 who applies for public benefits. It goes into
effect in January.

Kilgore has staked out his position as politicians across the country  deal with
immigration policy issues. Prompted by the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks,
President Bush is weighing immigration law changes  that would tighten the
country's borders but address citizenship questions about the estimated 11
million illegal immigrants in the United States.

Jo-Ann Chase, an Ashburn real estate broker and native of Puerto Rico who
attended yesterday's address, called Kilgore "a man of incredible fortitude" for
his stand on immigration.

The theme Kilgore chose for his remarks was "opportunity." Highlighting his
childhood as the son of a welder and a part-time drugstore clerk in rural Scott
County, he said he and his twin brother, Del. Terry G. Kilgore (R-Scott), became
the first in their family to graduate from college.

He said the government is obligated to provide educational opportunities,
although he stopped short of saying all opportunities should be afforded to
undocumented new arrivals regardless of their age.

Of day-laborer centers, Kilgore said he could support them only as long as all
of the workers using them are documented. "I know this is a tough issue. It's an
emotional issue," he said.

His position on the centers contrasts with that of Kaine, who has maintained
that they are  local matters. The larger questions of illegal immigration are
strictly in the federal purview, he has said.

Ricardo Cabellos, 30, of Loudoun County  sat in the front row, declining to clap
with the crowd, and challenged Kilgore on several points.

Cabellos, who described himself in an interview as a community activist, asked
how Kilgore could promote opportunity and deny young immigrants in-state college
tuition. "These kids came here without a choice. These are children who want to
go to college," Cabellos said.

Kilgore said undocumented immigrants don't "meet Virginia residency
requirements" for in-state tuition. Allowing them in-state tuition could open
the state up to lawsuits from out-of-state students demanding the same
treatment, he said.

In an interview, Kilgore said providing a free education to elementary and high
school students is different. The state is obligated to provide every
school-aged child, regardless of legal status, an education, he said.

Kilgore and his audience agreed on the need to fight gangs as well as create tax
breaks and more programs for minority and female business owners. He told the
group that the contributions of Hispanic businesses in Virginia "are not widely
reported."

The state ranked 10th in the country in the number of Hispanic-owned businesses,
he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              19 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 9, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

DeLay, Bush Differ on Immigrants;
Lawmaker Says Potential Guest Workers Must First Return Home

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 548 words


House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.) spelled out a rare difference with the
White House yesterday, telling reporters that he thinks illegal immigrants must
return to their home countries before being granted temporary legal status.

President Bush proposed a temporary-worker plan last year that would have
conferred legal status on illegal immigrants as long as they could prove they
had a job, with no requirement that they go home first. The status would last
for three years, with the possibility of an unspecified number of renewals.

Many House Republicans have complained that Bush's plan amounts to an amnesty,
or a general pardon, although he has insisted that is not his intention.
Supporters of Bush's idea argue that workers would be more likely to register if
they could stay in the United States, and that encouraging them to come out of
the shadows would enhance national security.

But DeLay said at a weekly media briefing that under his idea of a guest-worker
program, workers now in the country illegally "would have to go home and apply
in their country of origin." DeLay said that requiring them to go home first
"supports the rule of law" and "lets them know that being here illegally" they
are not going to receive preferential treatment.

White House spokeswoman Erin Healy did not comment about DeLay's specific idea
but said that the president "has set forth broad principles and we'll work with
Congress on the details."

DeLay said he had discussed his idea with Bush, who did not rule it in or out.
"I've talked to him about these issues, and he doesn't discount the notion, for
instance, that you have to apply for it in your country of origin," the
congressman said. "He felt that was a great idea. The point is that people are
trying to make this a bigger schism than it really is."

Immigration has split the White House and congressional Republicans more clearly
than any other issue. Bush's aides are anxious to build goodwill with Hispanic
voters, with whom the party has gained  in the past two presidential elections.

DeLay said Bush has said that "if we could show him a better way to do it, then
he is more than open to think about it."

A House leadership aide said that although work on such a bill will begin this
year, the time devoted to Social Security changes means that an immigration
package is unlikely to come to a vote until next year.

The House is to begin debating today a package of what Republicans call "border
security protections." Some provisions were recommended by the commission that
investigated the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, but the measures were omitted from
the intelligence restructuring bill passed in December.

The "Real I.D. Act," aimed at disrupting terrorists' travel, would establish
anti-fraud measures that states must use in issuing driver's licenses if they
are to be accepted for boarding planes or entering federal buildings. It would
also increase the terrorism-related grounds for deportation, give judges more
leeway to reject potentially fraudulent claims of political asylum, and clear
the way for closing a gap in a 14-mile  fence between California and Mexico.

The bill gives the Department of Homeland Security power to carry out several of
the provisions. Leaders said passage is expected Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              20 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 3, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Most Mexican Illegal Immigrants Open to Worker Program

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 617 words


Most Mexican illegal immigrants want to remain in the United States
indefinitely, but a majority would be willing to return to Mexico within five
years under a temporary guest worker program being considered by the Bush
administration, according to a survey released yesterday.

The survey by the Pew Hispanic Center showed that nearly three-quarters of
undocumented workers would accept a temporary worker status that required them
to return to Mexico. That included 68 percent who said they wanted to live in
the United States "as long as I can" or for "the rest of my life."

The survey of nearly 5,000 Mexican nationals was called the first of its kind by
Roberto Suro, the center's director. It was conducted at Mexican consulates in
Los Angeles; New York; Chicago; Atlanta; Dallas; Fresno, Calif.; and Raleigh,
N.C., over six months as immigrants applied for a Mexican identity document.

The survey comes about a year after the Bush administration proposed a temporary
worker program to match willing foreign workers with U.S. employers for jobs
that no Americans can be found to fill. Bush mentioned the program in his State
of the Union address  last year, and the White House has encouraged Republicans
in Congress to draft legislation supporting temporary-worker status.

Researchers surveyed immigrants at the consulates in cooperation with the
Mexican government, which supports the creation of a temporary worker status.
About 40 percent of respondents came to the United States within the past five
years. Most were young men, and they worked predominantly at construction sites,
in hotels and in the manufacturing industry.

Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), chairman of the Congressional Immigration Reform
Caucus, said the survey "shows exactly what we've been telling the
administration, that the vast majority of illegal aliens . . . have no intention
of returning to their countries of origin."

Tancredo supports efforts to provide temporary worker status, but only after the
borders are made less porous and stronger laws are passed to punish people who
employ workers illegally.

Dan Stein,  executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, opposes allowing undocumented immigrants to work legally, even on a
temporary basis. He dismissed the survey's findings, saying that illegal Mexican
immigrants would remain in the United States regardless of their status.

Stein said he doubted that the government would remove workers when their
temporary status expired. "One thing we know for sure is that under the current
state of affairs, no one would ever be forced to go home," he said. "That's a
hell of a thing to build a policy on."

Los Angeles immigration lawyer Alan R. Diamante agreed: "Let's be real. . . . My
clients don't want to leave after five years. It's great for people who want to
come from Mexico to the United States for a few years. But there would be a lot
of resistance from people already living in the United States. Most people want
an opportunity for permanent residency."

More than 5 million Mexican nationals live illegally in the United States and
comprise about 57 percent of all illegal immigrants, said Pew demographer
Jeffrey S. Passel, whose estimates are based largely on Census Bureau
information.

In the Pew survey, young and newly arrived immigrants were more likely to say
they would return to Mexico, while older immigrants with deeper roots in the
United States said they planned to stay indefinitely. Women were more likely
than men to say they wanted to remain in the country because they were joining
husbands or were caring for children.

"Being here changes the way people think about their migration," Suro said.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              21 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 7, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Virginia's Illegals

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 489 words


THE FIRST and  most important thing to say about the clutch of
illegal-immigration bills that arose in the Virginia legislature this year is
that their very existence is a reflection of federal failure on a grand scale.
The federal government's inability either to enforce immigration laws or to
change them to reflect the reality of this country's economic dependence upon
immigrant workers has left state officials across the country floundering.
Virginia is no exception. Some 175,000 undocumented workers are thought to live
in the state, a number that has tripled in the last eight years. Inevitably,
their presence affects local schools, hospitals and other government services.

But while the frustration of Virginia lawmakers is understandable, not all of
the measures proposed made sense. A proposal to bar undocumented teenagers --
usually children of undocumented parents -- from attending Virginia's public
universities was one such illogical measure. Is there much point in ensuring
that they remain uneducated and therefore more likely to be a burden on the
taxpayer? Fortunately, that measure was blocked by Virginia's senators, as was
an equally self-defeating measure to deprive illegal workers of workers'
compensation. Because workers' compensation systems were set up not as a benefit
but as a way to prevent workers' claims from being settled through the
unpredictable means of lawsuits, depriving undocumented immigrants  of
compensation could have simply encouraged the injured to make greater use of
courts. Limitations on compensation for illegals might also encourage Virginia
employers, particularly those offering hazardous jobs, to hire more illegals
rather than fewer.

Welfare benefits and government health care benefits such as Medicaid are a
different matter. All states make agonizing decisions about their Medicaid and
welfare programs, setting limits that cut off many of the genuinely needy
working poor. It may not be unreasonable to consider legal status  in deciding
who should be on the Medicaid rolls -- although those who are not may wind up in
emergency rooms at public expense anyway. The exception must be children, who
are not responsible for their parents' decisions. On those grounds, it is hard
to object in principle to the Virginia bills, passed by the state House and
Senate and now awaiting the governor's signature, that require valid residency
documentation for Medicaid applicants, with an exception made for children
younger than 19.

But on practical grounds, these bills too are redundant: Most applicants for
benefits  in Virginia already have to prove legal residence. The bills' main
effect will be to force all Virginians to come up with more documentation and go
through more paperwork. Again, while we have some sym- pathy for the frustration
that lies behind these bills, in practice they amount to little more than an
unattractive form of political grandstanding.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              22 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 25, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Conservatives Split in Debate on Curbing Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Shailagh Murray, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 1202 words


Republican lawmakers are headed for a showdown over illegal immigration, an
issue that exposes a deep and bitter rift within the GOP.

The drama will unfold when Congress returns early next month and turns to finish
an emergency spending bill to fund the Iraq war. The House version, approved
before the Easter break, carries tough immigration restrictions, reigniting a
long-simmering battle with the Senate over how to deal with the growing illegal
population.

It is a conflict that President Bush scarcely needs as he tries to unite his
party behind contentious Social Security changes and judicial nominations.
Meeting Wednesday with Mexican President Vicente Fox, Bush promised to continue
pushing Congress for a program allowing temporary guest workers. That
accommodation is the opposite of what House conservatives are seeking with the
crackdown on asylum seekers and state driver's-license requirements for illegal
immigrants that they attached to the Iraq bill. Bush acknowledged the limits of
his influence: "I'm not a member of the legislative branch," he told Fox.

The immigration debate pits one core GOP constituency (law-and-order
conservatives) against another (business interests that rely on immigrant
labor). One camp wants to tighten borders and deport people who are here
illegally; the other seeks to bring illegal workers out of the shadows and
acknowledge their growing economic importance.

Bush does not support giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, but he
wants to address the problem of undocumented workers by expanding
temporary-worker programs for the millions who are already here. The president
ranks illegal immigration as one of the "big problems" he wants to tackle in his
second term. White House Chief of Staff Andrew H. Card Jr. has called the issue
a greater immediate threat than Social Security. "This elephant is sitting at
the table right in front of us," Card said at a U.S. Chamber of Commerce meeting
in January.

A recent Pew Hispanic Center survey found that the number of illegal immigrants
in the United States has jumped by 25 percent in four years, to about 10.3
million. The growth has been scattered, extending into regions in the South and
Midwest, which have traditionally seen little foreign influx. That has helped to
transform immigration from a regional concern to a national one, as did the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, which infused the issue with new security concerns.

"Nobody wants to pay the political price if you suddenly have a major terror
incidence with illegal aliens with driver's licenses," said Dan Stein, head of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a leading voice in the
law-and-order camp. All 19 hijackers involved in the Sept. 11 attacks entered
the United States with valid documents, but some committed fraud to obtain them.

Business leaders tell GOP lawmakers a different story: Congress must address a
growing dependency on illegal labor as the U.S. population ages  --  and as more
jobs, especially at lower skill levels, go unfilled. Four days before the 2001
attacks, U.S. Chamber of Commerce President Thomas J. Donahue told members of
the Senate Judiciary Committee that immigrants are "our best hope to curb
chronic American labor shortages." He cited Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates
that by 2008, the United States will have 154 million workers for 161 million
jobs.

A group of House conservatives, led by Judiciary Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner
Jr. (R-Wis.), say the measures will bring security improvements needed to
prevent terrorist acts. For now, they want to deal only with that specific
concern. Sensenbrenner had added the restrictions to the
intelligence-restructuring bill but withdrew them in December when the Senate
objected. House leaders assured him the restrictions would move on this year's
first "must-pass" bill  --  the Iraq spending legislation.

Sensenbrenner warned Senate Republicans when he reintroduced his measures in
January that they were making a mistake by trying to use the funding bill "as a
horse to get more controversial provisions enacted."

But the House move gives the Senate a green light to advance its broader
immigration agenda when it takes up the Iraq bill next month. "Those are very
specific," Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) said of the House
proposals, in a Fox News interview. ". . . And I think we need to look at
immigration reform in a more comprehensive way."

One possible Senate amendment would offer temporary legal status to undocumented
farmworkers. Broader guest-worker proposals, including the plan that Bush is
advocating, also could end up in the mix.

Rancor over illegal immigration has become a staple on conservative blogs and
talk radio, with much of the wrath directed at Bush. Stein, of the immigration
reform group, said the president has dragged his heels on security improvements
and "is not leading the American people on this issue."

The outcry may be resonating. House Rules Chairman David Dreier (R-Calif.) got a
jolt during his 2004 reelection campaign, when radio hosts in his outer Los
Angeles district decided to make him a "political human sacrifice" for his
immigration views, Dreier said, accusing him, among other things, of advocating
Social Security benefits for illegal immigrants.

"I said to myself, nobody's going to believe I want to give Social Security
checks to people who are here illegally," Dreier recalls. Then he polled voters
and found that people not only believed the allegation but had resolved "to
never vote for David Dreier again." He won with 54 percent of the vote, a lower
proportion than previous years, and has since taken a prominent role in
advocating the Sensenbrenner measures, although he also supports guest-worker
programs.

Critics of the House restrictions, including many Senate Republicans, say the
curbs would trample states' rights and lead to more unlicensed drivers while
ignoring what they believe to be the crux of the problem: the millions of
undocumented people already entrenched in the workforce.

"There's a reality out there that few recognize," said Sen. Larry E. Craig
(R-Idaho), author of the Senate farmworker measure. "They're all here, and
they're necessary." Congress is addressing half the problem, Craig says, "if we
do all the right things to protect our borders without parallel effort to create
a legal workforce."

His allies on the issue of guest workers include labor groups, the Catholic
Church, the Chamber of Commerce and prominent free-market conservatives such as
Grover Norquist. Two possible 2008 GOP presidential contenders  --  Sens. John
McCain (Ariz.) and Chuck Hagel (Neb.)  --  are writing immigration plans that
focus on guest workers. McCain's co-author is Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass).

House Republicans who support tighter rules say they are counting on a silent
but determined "bite-your-lip caucus" to keep the focus on security. "Plenty of
people feel the same way we do but are just remaining quiet," said Rep. Tom
Tancredo (R-Colo.), a Sensenbrenner ally who travels the country calling for
stricter immigration rules. "We're the ones on the offensive," Tancredo said.
"Our agenda is advancing."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              23 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Measure Introduced

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 593 words


A bipartisan bill introduced in Congress yesterday seeks to  revise the current
immigration system by allowing millions of illegal immigrants in the United
States to apply to be temporary guest workers and permit residents of other
countries to seek the same status if they can prove that a job is waiting for
them.

The new  visa program proposed by Sens. John  McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.) would allow immigrant workers to leave and enter the United
States as they please over the three-year life of the temporary visa.

McCain said current immigration policy is "unacceptable," in part because it
forces Mexican nationals and others illegally seeking to enter the United States
to rely on human smugglers or risk their lives crossing the desert alone. In
addition, he said, porous borders are "leaving Americans vulnerable" to
terrorism.

The bill almost certainly faces a fight from Republicans who recently rejected
amnesty proposals and this week helped win passage of the Real ID Act, which
makes it more difficult for illegal immigrants to obtain federally recognized
identification.

Rep.  Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), a leading proponent of removing illegal
immigrants, said the legislation is another form of amnesty. "There might be a
little more lipstick on this pig than there was before," he said, "but it is
most certainly the same old pig. Time and time again, history has shown us that
amnesty actually increases illegal immigration."

Under the bill, millions of illegal workers and immigrants who want jobs in the
United States could eventually gain citizenship. Illegal workers in the United
States would pay $1,000 each to apply for H-5B visas that would require them to
work for six years before seeking permanent residency.   Foreign nationals would
pay $500 each and would have to prove that an employer has a job waiting for
them. Both would be required to pass a battery of police background and medical
checks.

After working for three years, foreign national visa-holders could ask for
three-year extensions and, in the meantime, apply for green cards. If the
illegal immigrants  continue working, pay an additional $1,000, study English
and break no laws for six years, they could qualify for permanent residency.
Ultimately, that could lead to full citizenship. In the meantime, visa-holders
could leave and enter the United States legally.

McCain said he asked the Bush administration to embrace the proposal. The
senator said he did not get a firm answer, but was told that the bill is "in
accord with the president's principles."

In January, Bush called for a better program for illegal workers, saying that
the United States "values immigration, and depends on immigration," and should
enact immigration laws "that . . . make us proud."

Judy  Golub, senior director of advocacy and public affairs for the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, said her organization favors the bill. "It'll
create an enforceable system," Golub said. "Right now, we don't have an
enforceable system. Not only is it not working, but we can't afford it."

Rosemary Jenks, director of government affairs for Numbers USA, which advocates
reducing the illegal-immigrant population, said her  group "would support an
exit amnesty, like a tax amnesty, that would allow illegal immigrants to leave
and not apply a ban on future reentry."

Jenks said the government should force employers to verify that workers are
legal or face charges themselves. McCain, Kennedy and other supporters said
those measures have not worked.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              24 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 5, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Politics of Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 686 words


GIVEN THE rapid growth of Virginia's immigrant communities in the  past 15
years, maybe it was inevitable that the combustible national debate over
undocumented workers would seep into this year's governor's campaign. So it did,
helped along this summer when the town of Herndon decided to establish a
publicly funded gathering spot for day laborers, many of them illegal, who work
in Northern Virginia's thriving construction industry. Former attorney general
Jerry W. Kilgore, the Republican nominee  for governor, knew a wedge issue when
he saw one; he pounced on Herndon's decision. He said it would "reward" illegal
immigrants and thus subvert the state's laws and stability.

Mr. Kilgore did some admirable things as Virginia's attorney general, cracking
down on domestic abuse and pushing for more transparency in state government.
But as his interjection on Herndon attests, his record on undocumented
immigrants  --  an enforcement responsibility mainly of the federal government,
not the states  --  is tinged with nativism and opportunism. By contrast, Lt.
Gov. Timothy M. Kaine, the Democratic nominee, has charted a middle course.

Mr. Kilgore was a driving force behind legislation to deny in-state tuition at
Virginia colleges and universities to all illegal immigrants, regardless of
their circumstances. Mr. Kaine, like Gov. Mark R. Warner, would have made an
exception for taxpaying immigrants brought to the country by their parents and
educated in the state's public schools, providing they were seeking to legalize
their status. Mr. Kilgore backed an unsuccessful bill to give local police the
power to detain people for immigration violations after they've been arrested
for another crime; Mr. Kaine opposed saddling state and  local police with a
federal responsibility they didn't want. Both candidates backed a post-Sept. 11
measure to deny illegal immigrants driver's licenses and government IDs, and
both supported a bill, set to become law in January, that will require local and
state government to check the legal status of applicants for public benefits.

These are not open-and-shut issues. The federal government's failure to enforce
its own immigration laws and police the borders has dumped tough immigration
problems on the states. So has the failure to reconcile the robust demand for
cheap labor in a number of states, including Virginia, with the unrealistically
minuscule number of visas granted each year for unskilled workers. The American
economy wants and needs low-wage workers, but the government has done nothing to
legalize their entry or status here.

Mr. Kilgore's across-the-board hostility toward undocumented immigrants strikes
us as gratuitous and over the top. Hounding Herndon on its day-laborer center is
populist nonsense: Would he prefer the status quo ante, when day laborers
thronged cars and clamored for jobs in a convenience store parking lot? Mr.
Kilgore has also said that as governor, he would ask the  U.S.  Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency to provide special training for 50 state troopers
whose main job would be to arrest undocumented individuals. Putting aside doubts
about such a program's practicability, we'd suggest the state has enough other
crime to keep its troopers busy.

Mr. Kaine stayed out of the Herndon dispute, which he correctly called a local
matter. He grasps that immigrants, documented and undocumented, have become an
integral part of the state's labor market, especially in Northern Virginia,
where there is almost no unemployment. He has placed the blame for the problem
and the burden for its solution where it properly belongs:  with the federal
government. Mr. Kilgore, by contrast, prefers posturing on illegal immigration,
without regard to the resentments that may be stirred up toward immigrants
generally. In seeking to crack down on and evict undocumented workers, Mr.
Kilgore should bear the burden of explaining how the employment market would
replace them.

This is one in a series of editorials on issues in the Virginia gubernatorial
race. Others can be found at www.washingtonpost.com/opinions.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              25 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 9, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Benefits for Illegal Immigrants Targeted;
House Passes Bill to Deny Access to Medicaid Coverage and Other Services

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 549 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 8


The House of Delegates passed a measure Tuesday that would deny Medicaid and
other benefits to illegal immigrants, one of several bills passed this session
to limit their access to public services.

On the last day that  delegates and senators could take up bills originating in
their respective chambers, the House gave final approval to House Bill 1798,
sponsored by Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax).  The bill would require immigrants
to supply proof that they are in the country legally before they could receive
some state and local benefits.

The bill would not prevent illegal immigrants from receiving emergency medical
care or disaster relief, but it would deny them regular coverage under Medicaid,
the state-federal medical program for the poor and disabled. It also would
prohibit them from receiving public retirement benefits or sharing in government
contracts.

In interviews Tuesday, supporters said the state's resources  should be used for
legal residents, including immigrants who are in this country lawfully.

"These are taxpayer concerns," Albo said in an interview, adding that there were
tens of thousands of illegal immigrants in the state who  are a potential drain
on state-funded services. "We have limited tax resources that we should be
spending on citizens and legal aliens."

Albo also said the provisions in the bill are in line with federal law.

Opponents, including some lawmakers and advocates for immigrants, said that the
bill is needlessly harsh and would place an undue burden on residents who would
have difficulty gathering documents to prove that they are in the country
lawfully.

"If they are here . . . we have an obligation to make sure to allow them to be
healthy," said Del. James H. Dillard II (R-Fairfax), who voted against the
measure. "But what you're also doing is sweeping in a lot of people who are in
the process of getting their identification and papers to prove they are here
legally."

Last week, the House passed legislation, sponsored by Del. Thomas D. Gear
(R-Hampton), that would bar illegal immigrants from the state's colleges and
universities. The bill is similar to one that passed the House last year that
would have required colleges to turn away illegal immigrants  and to expel those
who were enrolled.  Last year's bill was killed in a Senate committee. If the
measure  was enacted this year, Virginia would be the only state  to ban illegal
immigrants from public colleges and universities, immigrant advocates said.

The House also adopted a bill last week that would exclude illegal  immigrants
from most benefits available under the workers' compensation program. Under that
bill, sponsored by Del. Kathy J. Byron (R-Lynchburg), workers who are in the
country illegally would be eligible solely for medical benefits relating to
injuries suffered on the job and would be excluded from
vocational-rehabilitation benefits and death benefits.

To become law, all three bills must pass the Senate and be signed by Gov. Mark
R. Warner (D).

Immigrant advocacy groups said the bills that passed the House are part of a
disturbing trend. "What we're seeing here is a anti-immigrant climate in
Virginia," said Arlington County Board member Walter Tejada (D), one of the few
Latinos elected to public office in the commonwealth.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              26 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Signs Immigrant Aid Limits;
Va. to Require Proof Of Legal Status

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND March 29


Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) signed a measure Tuesday that tightens laws
prohibiting illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits, including
Medicaid and public assistance.

On the last day the governor could act on the nearly 950 bills that passed the
Republican-controlled General Assembly, Warner waded into an issue that divided
the legislature this year: what public benefits and other services the state
should offer to illegal immigrants, a population that has nearly tripled in
Virginia since 1996, according to federal estimates.

The legislation  --  House Bill 1798 and Senate Bill 1143  --  requires state
and local governments to verify whether anyone who requests non-emergency public
benefits is in the United States legally. The General Assembly also considered
bills that would have banned illegal immigrants from the state's public colleges
and universities and barred them from receiving workers' compensation benefits,
but those measures failed.

Supporters of the legislation said Virginia's public resources should be used
only for legal immigrants, particularly as the cost of many services, such as
Medicaid, continues to rise.

Warner said the pair of bills sponsored by Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) and
Sen. Emmett W. Hanger (R-Augusta) merely codified existing federal law, which
prevents illegal immigrants from receiving certain public benefits.

The legislation, which takes effect Jan. 1, applies only to illegal immigrants
19 and older. Immigrants of any age still will be eligible for emergency aid,
such as disaster relief and pregnancy tests.

"The bill that passed was dramatically different than the one" introduced at the
start of the 2005 assembly session, Warner said in an interview with reporters
at the Capitol Tuesday.

But Warner, who is completing his final bill-signing period as governor,
acknowledged the concerns of many opponents: that the bills were engineered by
lawmakers searching for an issue to run on this election year. All 100 seats of
the House of Delegates are up for election Nov. 8. Many opponents also argued
that there was very little evidence that illegal immigrants were raiding public
services wholesale.

"There may have been some election-year activities surrounding the bill," Warner
said.

Several activists said Warner's signing of the bill sent a dangerous message to
the commonwealth.

"It's very disappointing," said Arlington County Board member Walter Tejada (D),
who serves as chairman of the Virginia Latino Advisory Commission, which Warner
established two years ago. "It serves no other purpose but to fan the flames of
anti-immigrant sentiment . . . and that is simply wrong."

Tejada echoed the concerns expressed by opponents of the legislation and several
local officials, who said it will create onerous red tape for people here
legally.

In other action Tuesday, Warner vetoed legislation that sought to end a
quarter-century-old federal ban on drilling for natural gas off the Atlantic
coast.

SB 1054, sponsored by Sen. Frank W. Wagner (R-Virginia Beach), called on
Virginia's congressional lobbyists to work with its U.S. senators and
representatives to lift the ban on offshore drilling. In an interview this week,
Wagner said Virginians need new energy sources. Lifting the ban would ease the
way for drilling off the Hampton Roads coast.

Warner said in a statement that he was vetoing the bill largely on procedural
grounds. The bill would interfere with the power of the governor to work with
the state's Washington lobbyists. He pointed out that there were other channels
for advocates to use.

"There is nothing to prevent individual legislators or groups of legislators
from advocating for these or other policies," he said.

Environmental groups and local leaders in the Hampton Roads area had argued that
drilling would have a disastrous impact on the state's shorelines. Trade groups
hoping to lift the ban said offshore gas fields are a vital untapped source for
a country dependent on foreign energy supplies.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              27 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Warner Signs Limits on Immigrant Benefits;
Virginia to Require Verification of Legal Status to Receive Non-Emergency Aid

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND March 29


Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) signed a measure Tuesday that tightens laws
prohibiting illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits, including
Medicaid and public assistance.

On the last day the governor could act on the nearly 950 bills that passed the
Republican-controlled General Assembly, Warner waded into an issue that divided
the legislature this year: what public benefits and other services the state
should offer to illegal immigrants, a population that has nearly tripled in
Virginia since 1996, according to federal estimates.

The legislation  --  House Bill 1798 and Senate Bill 1143  --  requires state
and local governments to verify whether anyone who requests non-emergency public
benefits is in the United States legally. The General Assembly also considered
bills that would have banned illegal immigrants from the state's public colleges
and universities and barred them from receiving workers' compensation benefits,
but those measures failed.

Supporters of the legislation said Virginia's public resources should be used
only for legal immigrants, particularly as the cost of many services, such as
Medicaid, continues to rise.

Warner said the pair of bills sponsored by Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) and
Sen. Emmett W. Hanger (R-Augusta) merely codified existing federal law, which
prevents illegal immigrants from receiving certain public benefits.

The legislation, which takes effect Jan. 1, applies only to illegal immigrants
19 and older. Immigrants of any age still will be eligible for emergency aid,
such as disaster relief and pregnancy tests.

"The bill that passed was dramatically different than the one" introduced at the
start of the 2005 assembly session, Warner said in an interview with reporters
at the Capitol Tuesday.

But Warner, who is completing his final bill-signing period as governor,
acknowledged the concerns of many opponents: that the bills were engineered by
lawmakers searching for an issue to run on this election year. All 100 seats of
the House of Delegates are up for election Nov. 8. Many opponents also argued
that there was very little evidence that illegal immigrants were raiding public
services wholesale.

"There may have been some election-year activities surrounding the bill," Warner
said.

Several activists said Warner's signing of the bill sent a dangerous message to
the commonwealth.

"It's very disappointing," said Arlington County Board member Walter Tejada (D),
who serves as chairman of the Virginia Latino Advisory Commission, which Warner
established two years ago. "It serves no other purpose but to fan the flames of
anti-immigrant sentiment . . . and that is simply wrong."

Tejada echoed the concerns expressed by opponents of the legislation and several
local officials, who said it will create onerous red tape for people here
legally.

In other action Tuesday, Warner vetoed legislation that sought to end a
quarter-century-old federal ban on drilling for natural gas off the Atlantic
coast.

SB 1054, sponsored by Sen. Frank W. Wagner (R-Virginia Beach), called on
Virginia's congressional lobbyists to work with its U.S. senators and
representatives to lift the ban on offshore drilling. In an interview this week,
Wagner said Virginians need new energy sources. Lifting the ban would ease the
way for drilling off the Hampton Roads coast.

Warner said in a statement that he was vetoing the bill largely on procedural
grounds. The bill would interfere with the power of the governor to work with
the state's Washington lobbyists. He pointed out that there were other channels
for advocates to use.

"There is nothing to prevent individual legislators or groups of legislators
from advocating for these or other policies," he said.

Environmental groups and local leaders in the Hampton Roads area had argued that
drilling would have a disastrous impact on the state's shorelines. Trade groups
hoping to lift the ban said offshore gas fields are a vital untapped source for
a country dependent on foreign energy supplies.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              28 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. DMV Official Accused in Fraud Probe

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 607 words


The manager of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles office at Springfield
Mall was charged yesterday with selling driver's licenses to illegal immigrants
and others for up to $3,500 apiece.

The arrest of Francisco J. Martinez marked the second time in two years that a
Northern Virginia DMV employee was accused of fraudulently selling licenses for
cash. A similar scheme two years ago at the DMV office in Tysons Corner led to
the guilty pleas of two employees.

Federal prosecutors in Alexandria charged Martinez, 57, of Stafford, with one
count of conspiracy to commit identification fraud. As the head of DMV's
customer service center at the mall, he supervised about 30 employees. Also
charged was his wife, Miriam Martinez, 56, a former DMV clerk in Tysons Corner.

A third person charged in the scheme, Jose Daniel Guardia, 25, of Alexandria,
pleaded guilty Monday. Guardia, an illegal immigrant from Bolivia, found clients
and collected fees for the operation, authorities said.

Virginia licenses were issued to at least 40 people who were either illegal
immigrants or whose driving privileges had been suspended, prosecutors said.

The case is the latest in a federal crackdown on document and identity fraud in
Virginia since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and
Pentagon. Seven of the 19 hijackers in the attacks had fraudulently obtained
Virginia documents.

"The integrity of our state driver's licenses is critical to our commerce, as
well as our national security," said Paul J. McNulty, the U.S. attorney in
Alexandria. As proof of the crackdown's success, McNulty said the cost of
fraudulently obtaining a Virginia license has risen from $100 a few years ago to
$3,500. A Virginia license usually costs $20.

Court documents mentioned no terrorism tie in the latest case, and DMV officials
said there is none.

Francisco and Miriam Martinez appeared briefly yesterday in U.S. District Court
in Alexandria, and they were ordered detained until a hearing on Thursday.
Lawyers had not been appointed for the couple yesterday. An attorney for
Guardia, Paul Murphy, said his client is cooperating with the government and is
"certainly sorry for what has happened."

DMV spokeswoman Pam Goheen called the arrests "unfortunate and disappointing"
and said the "vast majority of DMV employees are honest and hardworking." She
said that Martinez had been suspended and that DMV had tracked down the
estimated 40 licenses that were fraudulently issued. The licenses will be
canceled.

Goheen could not explain how two similar scams might have been carried out so
close together in two Northern Virginia DMV offices. But she said the agency has
stepped up its enforcement and auditing efforts. Since 2002, she said, DMV
"document verifiers" have double-checked every application processed by customer
service staffers.

"It's two sets of eyes on every transaction," Goheen said. "There is a
heightened awareness of the importance of a driver's license."

Yet court documents said the latest alleged scam was uncovered not by DMV but by
the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security. After a six-month
investigation that included the FBI and the DMV, officials are alleging that
Francisco Martinez issued the licenses and falsified DMV records to make it
appear that applicants had surrendered  valid licenses from other states.

One of those fraudulently issued a license was Guardia, whose driving privileges
had been suspended several times, according to court documents. The court papers
said Miriam Martinez helped coordinate the scheme. If convicted, the Martinezes
face up to 15 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              29 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            July 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Official Accused in Driver's License Fraud Probe

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 607 words


The manager of the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles office at Springfield
Mall was charged yesterday with selling driver's licenses to illegal immigrants
and others for up to $3,500 apiece.

The arrest of Francisco J. Martinez marked the second time in two years that a
Northern Virginia DMV employee was accused of fraudulently selling licenses for
cash. A similar scheme two years ago at the DMV office in Tysons Corner led to
the guilty pleas of two employees.

Federal prosecutors in Alexandria charged Martinez, 57, of Stafford, with one
count of conspiracy to commit identification fraud. As the head of DMV's
customer service center at the mall, he supervised about 30 employees. Also
charged was his wife, Miriam Martinez, 56, a former DMV clerk in Tysons Corner.

A third person charged in the scheme, Jose Daniel Guardia, 25, of Alexandria,
pleaded guilty Monday. Guardia, an illegal immigrant from Bolivia, found clients
and collected fees for the operation, authorities said.

Virginia licenses were issued to at least 40 people who were either illegal
immigrants or whose driving privileges had been suspended, prosecutors said.

The case is the latest in a federal crackdown on document and identity fraud in
Virginia since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center and
Pentagon. Seven of the 19 hijackers in the attacks had fraudulently obtained
Virginia documents.

"The integrity of our state driver's licenses is critical to our commerce, as
well as our national security," said Paul J. McNulty, the U.S. attorney in
Alexandria. As proof of the crackdown's success, McNulty said the cost of
fraudulently obtaining a Virginia license has risen from $100 a few years ago to
$3,500. A Virginia license usually costs $20.

Court documents mentioned no terrorism tie in the latest case, and DMV officials
said there is none.

Francisco and Miriam Martinez appeared briefly yesterday in U.S. District Court
in Alexandria, and they were ordered detained until a hearing on Thursday.
Lawyers had not been appointed for the couple yesterday. An attorney for
Guardia, Paul Murphy, said his client is cooperating with the government and is
"certainly sorry for what has happened."

DMV spokeswoman Pam Goheen called the arrests "unfortunate and disappointing"
and said the "vast majority of DMV employees are honest and hardworking." She
said that Martinez had been suspended and that DMV had tracked down the
estimated 40 licenses that were fraudulently issued. The licenses will be
canceled.

Goheen could not explain how two similar scams might have been carried out so
close together in two Northern Virginia DMV offices. But she said the agency has
stepped up its enforcement and auditing efforts. Since 2002, she said, DMV
"document verifiers" have double-checked every application processed by customer
service staffers.

"It's two sets of eyes on every transaction," Goheen said. "There is a
heightened awareness of the importance of a driver's license."

Yet court documents said the latest alleged scam was uncovered not by DMV but by
the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security. After a six-month
investigation that included the FBI and the DMV, officials are alleging that
Francisco Martinez issued the licenses and falsified DMV records to make it
appear that applicants had surrendered  valid licenses from other states.

One of those fraudulently issued a license was Guardia, whose driving privileges
had been suspended several times, according to court documents. The court papers
said Miriam Martinez helped coordinate the scheme. If convicted, the Martinezes
face up to 15 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              30 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 14, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Accused Smuggler of Immigrants Awaits Verdict

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 251 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK June 13


A woman illegally shipped thousands of Chinese people into the United States,
running a multimillion-dollar smuggling empire, prosecutors said in closing
arguments at her trial Monday.

Cheng Chui Ping, 56, also known as "Sister Ping," laundered hundreds of
thousands of dollars to traffic illegal immigrants over almost two decades,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Leslie Brown told a federal jury in Manhattan.

"Sister Ping had scores of people in several different countries to move her
human cargo for her," Brown said. "Sister Ping was a big-time alien smuggler."

Cheng's lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, said she was operating an international
banking business and was the subject of "a long conspiracy theory" by the
government.

"This was a credit union, this . . . is being used to tie Cheng Chui Ping with
alien smuggling," he said.

The government's evidence was taken "from the scraps of the cutting-room floor
of other investigations," including those of convicted Chinese gang members who
testified against Cheng during the month-long trial, he said.

Cheng, a native of China, is charged with conspiracy to commit immigrant
smuggling, hostage taking and money laundering.

If convicted, she faces a maximum sentence of life in prison without the
possibility of parole.

Brown said Cheng sent at least $300,000 of her smuggling proceeds to Thailand to
finance the 1992 voyage of a ship, Golden Venture. It  ran aground off New York
in June 1993, and  10 people drowned trying to swim ashore.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              31 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         June 13, 2005 Monday 02:00 PM

Justice Department: Terror Trials and Tribulations

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Washington Post Reporters

LENGTH: 3374 words

HIGHLIGHT: Since the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, federal agencies tasked
with protecting U.S. citizens have gone to great lengths to make America safer,
with some success. But a great number of innocent people have been implicated as
being associated with the Islamic extremist groups that threaten the safety of
the United States. Some have been held while being investigated for
terror-related crimes, then convicted and sentenced for lesser offenses. Some
were never charged at all. Others - some of whom are naturalized citizens - have
been threatened with deportation for inconsistencies on immigration paperwork.


Since the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, federal agencies tasked with
protecting U.S. citizens have gone to great lengths to make America safer, with
some success. But a great number of innocent people have been implicated as
being associated with the Islamic extremist groups that threaten the safety of
the United States. Some have been held while being investigated for
terror-related crimes, then convicted and sentenced for lesser offenses. Some
were never charged at all. Others - some of whom are naturalized citizens - have
been threatened with deportation for inconsistencies on immigration paperwork.

The Post's Dan Eggen has reported on the Department of Justice's mixed success
in finding and prosecuting persons suspected of having ties to terrorist groups.
Mary Beth Sheridan has reported on the severe consequences faced by individuals
whose immigration applications or records don't pass muster in the current
climate of intense government scrutiny.

Dan Eggen and Mary Beth Sheridan were online Monday, June 13, at 2 p.m. ET to
discuss report.

Read the report: U.S. Campaign Produces Few Convictions on Terrorism Charges.

Immigration Law as Anti-Terrorism Tool.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Washington, D.C.: I guess one argument is that it isn't fair to "target"
specific groups with immigration enforcement. I agree. How about this as an
approach: We deport ALL illegal aliens. Then, the potential terrorists, as well
as the rest of them, would be out of here, and there would be no claim of
"unfairness." Do you agree?

Mary Beth Sheridan: Obviously I think the government should enforce the law,
including immigration law. The tricky part is that there are so many people in
the U.S. illegally--an estimated 10 million. Homeland Security only has a few
thousand agents dedicated to enforcement inside the country (it has more,
obviously, at the border). I also think there isn't remotely enough detention
space for millions of illegal immigrants (typically people who are picked up for
deportation get hearings first). I think that explains in part why you don't see
a large-scale effort to deport illegal immigrants. In addition, lawyers argue
there are people who fall out of status not because they're flouting the law but
simply because there's a long backlog in processing immigration forms.

_______________________

Wheaton, Md.: Can you give any examples of innocent people being implicated? I
haven't seen any.

Dan Eggen: I'm not sure what you mean by "innocent." If you mean innocent of
terrorism, we identified 180 cases in which no ties to terrorist groups or
activity could be found. Furthermore, out of the remaining cases, only 39
resulted in terrorism or national security convictions. We also profiled in
depth several cases that did not involve terrorism, including a group of
immigrants in New Jersey who had smuggled cornflakes nearly two years before
9/11.

If you mean innocent of any crime, that is a different question, although many
on the list were prosecuted for minor crimes--lying on immigration forms,
etc.--that are not commonly pursued.

_______________________

Columbia, Md.: Thank you for your live session today. I have a question about
immigration law related to other illegal aliens. On Lou Dobbs CNN program he
reported that 85,000 of the total illegal aliens in this country are wanted on
criminal charges already and these are not immigration violations. Why are these
people not detained and deported? Don't these people also represent a threat to
our economy and citizenry as much as those mentioned in your reports?

Mary Beth Sheridan: Homeland Security has made a big effort to determine which
people in jail are deportable (i.e. prisoners who are in the country illegally,
or have been convicted of an aggravated felony and thus can lose their legal
residency). But it seems they don't have enough staff to check all the
prisoners. So some are released after serving their sentences. Homeland Security
has also made a priority of trying to find people with criminal records who've
been ordered deported but failed to leave. But again, they don't seem to have
enough agents to go after them all.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Has the DOJ used the idea that we are 'at war' to justify any
policy or actions ? Are we in a state of war? If so, what event will determine
the end of the war?

Dan Eggen: Certainly it is true that the Bush administration believes that we
are in an unconventional war with terrorists, and that as a result more powers
were necessary for law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Congress and most
of the U.S. public appears to agree.

Our point in this series was the narrower question of how the Justice Department
and the Department of Homeland Security have pursued cases that they deem to be
terrorism-related and how they have presented their track record to the public.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: What's a terrorist, anyway? It's telling of the White House's
"flexible" definition of the word that they let Luis Posada Carriles - the
former CIA operative who downed a Cuban airliner killing 73 innocents - roam the
country unimpeded for several months (until international press coverage finally
shamed them into hauling him in). Perhaps foreigners fighting immigration
charges here need only express aloud a few virulent anti-Castro sentiments, and
any deeds or suspicions will be overlooked.

Dan Eggen: The definition of terrorism and terrorists is central to this debate
over the Justice Department's terrorism statistics. In the months after 9/11,
virtually any case handled by either the FBI's 9/11 team or by Joint Terrorism
Task Forces across the country was designated as such and put on the list that
the Post examined. Justice officials now say they have tightened their
definitions.

In either case, however, the definition depends only on the initial suspicion or
tip--not whether or not the person really was connected to any terrorist group
or activity. I think that is one of the issues here.

_______________________

Nashville, Tenn.: I am more concerned about the loss of civil liberties of
citizens than of immigrants. I don't think the FBI would need to be taking this
shotgun, grab everything and everyone approach, if they had a Virtual Case File
system that they could be confident in. Your views about that?

Dan Eggen: I'm not sure what impact a lack of decent computers might have had on
these sorts of cases. In a broader sense, though, members of Congress, the
Justice Department inspector general, the 9/11 Commission and many others have
taken the FBI to task for failing to get up to speed quickly (and efficiently)
enough in rebuilding its technology systems. The failure of VCF--which was
abandoned at a loss of at least $104 million--is the latest example of the
problem.

_______________________

Pittsburgh, Pa.: Mary Beth, thank you for a terrific article and exposing the
problems countless immigrants are facing. Your article states it's the second of
two - where's the first? Could you please post a link to it?

Also, I realize Homeland Security officials say they're not targeting any
specific religious or ethnic group, but have you come across or has DHS
officials provided any cases where our government went after minor immigration
infractions of immigrants from, say, the U.K., Canada, Scandinavia?

The problem is that no one in this government has the guts to come out and say
publicly that they're targeting Muslims and Arabs.

Mary Beth Sheridan: Thanks! The first article was by my colleague Dan Eggen and
ran on the front page of the paper yesterday. I think there's a link to it at
the top of the discussion page.

As for your other question: I think Homeland Security agents do detain people
from lots of different countries on immigration charges; but they succeed in
arresting only a small percentage of the illegal population, because DHS doesn't
have the staff to go after everybody. They clearly have focused more on looking
at people who they consider possible national-security threats. Many Muslims and
Arab-Americans feel they're being hit with/charges very few others face. They're
true in some cases. The issue there is whether they've violated the immigration
law, and whether there's reason to scrutinize them. The government argues it's
not profiling but checking out information it receives that links the
individuals to some kind of threat.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: I'm sure that sleeper cell terrorists living in the U.S. are
very pleased with your report. Nice work criticizing the government for using
perfectly legal and logical methods as part of their effort to keep us safe.

Dan Eggen: It's not clear to me how branding innocent immigrants as terrorists
impacts the plans of any real terrorists in our midst. Such tactics might
actually hurt counterterrorism efforts in two ways: by alienating law-abiding
members of immigrant communities who can help the FBI and other authorities, and
by wasting law enforcement time and resources.

Being clear and truthful about the statistics would hardly undermine the war on
terror, but it would give the public a better idea of what's really happening.
Please read our stories: We found 142 cases with a reasonable allegation of a
connection to terrorism. There is no reason the government couldn't use such a
number, which is sizable.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: What is the Homeland Security's response when tactics are used
(such as hovering helicopters and SWAT teams) and they then realize that the
folks they are interviewing are not terrorists and not a threat? Can they
justify their actions?

Mary Beth Sheridan: I think Homeland Security would have to answer the second
part of the question. When I asked why they used a helicopter and SWAT-style
team to arrest a Burke man on immigration charges, they said they had
information he had had weapons and martial-arts training. The man, a Lebanese
immigrant, said that he indeed had a black belt in judo, and knew how to use
weapons because he'd lived in Lebanon during the war there. Homeland Security
officials also pointed out he had a shotgun under his bed. Obviously, federal
agents have to protect themselves when they go into a potentially dangerous
situation, but my impression was that this man didn't pose much danger. (He
doesn't face a terrorism charge and was promptly released from prison by a
judge). By the way, I was told the helicopter was used both to watch for anyone
trying to escape out the back door, and to treat anyone who suffered an injury
(there was a medic or doctor on board).

_______________________

Dallas, Tex.: Quite frankly, I believe both the government and the media in this
country have vastly overblown the terrorist presence as well as their
capabilities. It has been 3.5 yrs since 9/11 and the convictions you mentioned
in the article show the FBI holding an empty hand. Is it too much for the Bureau
to say they overreacted and that Americans are much safer from terrorism than
the hysterical claims of the media/governments?

Dan Eggen: This is certainly the big question of our time. The lack of a
follow-up attack can be argued both ways: either to support the efforts that the
FBI and other agencies have made both here and overseas to combat al Qaeda, or
to argue that there is not much presence here to begin with.

We can only go so far based on the data we examined from the Justice Department.
But based on the cases that have been brought, it is fair to say that they do
not support the idea that hundreds of suspects with terrorist ties have been
arrested or detected. Other independent analyses, including a recent bulletin by
the FBI and CIA, also have raised questions about the extent of an al Qaeda
network in the U.S.

That said, U.S. officials make the good point that it only takes one successful
cell to bring calamity, as happened on 9/11.

_______________________

Nashville, Tenn: "most of the U.S. public appears to agree" I for one don't
agree. The type of actions that are being used by the government to round up
terrorists today are approaching the actions used by the Soviet Union, which in
turn were used to justify the fighting in Vietnam. Also you ducked the question
of how and when the GWOT will declared over.

Dan Eggen: I base my assessment of public opinion on the last couple elections,
which certainly have gone the GOP's way.

As for the global war on terrorism (GWOT), the administration hasn't put a
timeline on it but has repeatedly characterized it as a conflict that could last
a generation or more. Obviously there are critics who disagree.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: You owe your readers better research than to casually refer to
"overstaying a visa" as a routine charge. I see similar references in Washington
Post articles all the time. It shows a profound lack of understanding of U.S.
immigration law.

There are two fundamental categories of U.S. visas: immigrant and non-immigrant,
also known respectively permanent and temporary.

Immigrant visas may be revoked for cause, but never expire due to the running of
time, hence the term permanent.

Any visa that can expire must be a non-immigrant or "temporary" visa (NIV). That
category of visa is only awarded to people wishing to come to the U.S. for a
specific purpose, such as business, study, or tourism. In order to qualify, the
applicant must have a permanent residence outside the U.S. which the applicant
does not intend to abandon. If the person wants to enter as an immigrant he/she
is ineligible for an NIV and must apply for an immigrant visa. Furthermore, most
NIVs do not allow the holder to work or establish a permanent residence. Anyone
obtaining a nonimmigrant visa by concealing their intention to enter to
immigrate commits an act of fraud.

So when you write that someone has "overstayed a visa" you either display a
fundamental lack of understanding of U.S. immigration law (and should not be
writing the article) or you deliberately deceive your readers (who read to
learn) by concealing the fact that the "immigrant" violated the conditions of
the visa by working or establishing a permanent U.S. residence and probably
obtained the visa by fraud.

The Post should know better and do better. Immigration is a serious and
controversial topic. It is made worse by misleading reporting.

Mary Beth Sheridan: I confess to not being an immigration lawyer, though I speak
to them all the time. As a reporter covering immigration, I would take issue
with the idea that every foreigner who overstays his or her legally-alloted time
has committed fraud to get a visa. I think people come here as students or
temporary workers or tourists or whatever, and sometimes stay beyond when
they're supposed to leave, because they discover they love life here or can make
money working, or whatever. I'm not defending that--I think everyone should
follow the law--but I don't think such behavior always reflects a
long-thought-out plan. And as you know, people can get visas that permit them to
come to the United States over a period of years. I do agree with you, however,
that this is a serious and controversial issue.

_______________________

Nashville, Tenn.: "180 cases in which no connection to al Qaeda . . . found in
court records" Your article mentions that they had to get Al Capone on income
tax evasion. On many "Law&Order" TV programs they get the person on whatever
they can. Is there a difference here?

Dan Eggen: Yes, there is a difference. To stretch the Al Capone analogy a bit,
the 180 would be people who don't even know a gangster and have never been one.

In other words, this group of cases in our analysis is quite clear cut. Examples
include the 20 hazmat-related defendants in Pennsylvania, the cornflake
pilferers, a Sudanese actor with a similar name to a terror suspect, a Michigan
man with the same name as the leader of Hezbollah, etc. etc. etc. These are not
even close calls. They ended up on the terror list because of bogus tips,
circumstantial connections, etc.

If the case had any reasonable connection to a terrorist group or activity, we
labeled it as related to terror and gave the government the benefit of the
doubt.

But it should be pointed out that even many of the latter cases turned out to be
either benign or highly debatable.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: How much does the INS depend upon secret evidence in these
cases, and wasn't secret evidence allowed as part of an immigration bill passed
during the Clinton administration? My point is that this may not have that much
to do with 9/11 and more to do with religious and racial profiling that was a
big topic of public debate during the Clinton administration?

Mary Beth Sheridan: Few of these cases seem to involve secret evidence in terms
of the accusations. They all involve ordinary immigration charges--lying on a
naturalization or green-card form, holding a job while a student (which many
student visas forbid), etc. That's the charge the government has to prove. There
have been some cases in which immigration hearings have been ordered closed, but
they seem to be pretty infrequent in the last year or two. The issue of a
person's alleged terrorist ties may emerge in a bond or sentencing hearing, but
I haven't seen any pattern of secret evidence being presented to the judges.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Thanks for two excellent reports.

Both pieces point out problems that the U.S. government is creating for itself
in the area of public diplomacy. As someone who travels outside the U.S.,
including in the Arab and Muslim world, I can attest that incidents of law
enforcement efforts that are perceived to be - and in some case are in fact -
unjust, capricious or disproportionate contribute to an image of America that is
increasingly negative.

Do you have any evidence that this issue is taken into account by policy makers?
Is there any direction being given at senior levels of government to make law
enforcement in the U.S. more transparent and more fair?

Dan Eggen: The Justice Department has not officially released their list of
terrorism cases since they published a much shorter version containing less than
100 names shortly after 9/11. Officials say they are concerned, among other
things, about the legal ramifications of releasing a list of names associated
with "terrorism-related" probes. However, officials continue to use the numbers
from the list in speeches and other public statements.

_______________________

Pittsburgh, Pa.: Have you come across any cases where DHS/ICE arrested Muslim or
Arab immigrants after receiving, say, a letter or a phone call from someone
essentially trying to settle a grudge?

I realize this document got very little play in the media, certainly not like
the Abu Ghraib report, but Glenn Fine's massive report on our treatment of 9/11
detainees was very telling. Have either of you looked at that report?

Mary Beth Sheridan: I did read the Fine report while researching my story, and
it was really interesting. Obviously as the IG he had access to a lot of
information. I don't know specific instances in which someone was identified as
a national-security threat by an acquaintance with a grudge, but I could see how
that could happen. Anti-terrorism agents certainly get anonymous tips that they
investigate. In fairness, though, the agents have to run down every report that
seems like it could be credible. And if they discover the person is innocent of
any terror ties but is in the country illegally, I think it's legitimate to
charge the person with that.

_______________________

Dan Eggen: Thanks to everyone for your great questions. Keep reading!

_______________________

Mary Beth Sheridan: Thanks from me too. Sorry we couldn't answer all your
questions, but we noted every one. We appreciate your thoughts.

Mary Beth

_______________________

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                         June 13, 2005 Monday 02:00 PM

Justice Department: Terror Trials and Tribulations

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Washington Post Reporters

LENGTH: 3374 words

HIGHLIGHT: Since the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, federal agencies tasked
with protecting U.S. citizens have gone to great lengths to make America safer,
with some success. But a great number of innocent people have been implicated as
being associated with the Islamic extremist groups that threaten the safety of
the United States. Some have been held while being investigated for
terror-related crimes, then convicted and sentenced for lesser offenses. Some
were never charged at all. Others - some of whom are naturalized citizens - have
been threatened with deportation for inconsistencies on immigration paperwork.


Since the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, federal agencies tasked with
protecting U.S. citizens have gone to great lengths to make America safer, with
some success. But a great number of innocent people have been implicated as
being associated with the Islamic extremist groups that threaten the safety of
the United States. Some have been held while being investigated for
terror-related crimes, then convicted and sentenced for lesser offenses. Some
were never charged at all. Others - some of whom are naturalized citizens - have
been threatened with deportation for inconsistencies on immigration paperwork.

The Post's Dan Eggen has reported on the Department of Justice's mixed success
in finding and prosecuting persons suspected of having ties to terrorist groups.
Mary Beth Sheridan has reported on the severe consequences faced by individuals
whose immigration applications or records don't pass muster in the current
climate of intense government scrutiny.

Dan Eggen and Mary Beth Sheridan were online Monday, June 13, at 2 p.m. ET to
discuss report.

Read the report: U.S. Campaign Produces Few Convictions on Terrorism Charges.

Immigration Law as Anti-Terrorism Tool.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Washington, D.C.: I guess one argument is that it isn't fair to "target"
specific groups with immigration enforcement. I agree. How about this as an
approach: We deport ALL illegal aliens. Then, the potential terrorists, as well
as the rest of them, would be out of here, and there would be no claim of
"unfairness." Do you agree?

Mary Beth Sheridan: Obviously I think the government should enforce the law,
including immigration law. The tricky part is that there are so many people in
the U.S. illegally--an estimated 10 million. Homeland Security only has a few
thousand agents dedicated to enforcement inside the country (it has more,
obviously, at the border). I also think there isn't remotely enough detention
space for millions of illegal immigrants (typically people who are picked up for
deportation get hearings first). I think that explains in part why you don't see
a large-scale effort to deport illegal immigrants. In addition, lawyers argue
there are people who fall out of status not because they're flouting the law but
simply because there's a long backlog in processing immigration forms.

_______________________

Wheaton, Md.: Can you give any examples of innocent people being implicated? I
haven't seen any.

Dan Eggen: I'm not sure what you mean by "innocent." If you mean innocent of
terrorism, we identified 180 cases in which no ties to terrorist groups or
activity could be found. Furthermore, out of the remaining cases, only 39
resulted in terrorism or national security convictions. We also profiled in
depth several cases that did not involve terrorism, including a group of
immigrants in New Jersey who had smuggled cornflakes nearly two years before
9/11.

If you mean innocent of any crime, that is a different question, although many
on the list were prosecuted for minor crimes--lying on immigration forms,
etc.--that are not commonly pursued.

_______________________

Columbia, Md.: Thank you for your live session today. I have a question about
immigration law related to other illegal aliens. On Lou Dobbs CNN program he
reported that 85,000 of the total illegal aliens in this country are wanted on
criminal charges already and these are not immigration violations. Why are these
people not detained and deported? Don't these people also represent a threat to
our economy and citizenry as much as those mentioned in your reports?

Mary Beth Sheridan: Homeland Security has made a big effort to determine which
people in jail are deportable (i.e. prisoners who are in the country illegally,
or have been convicted of an aggravated felony and thus can lose their legal
residency). But it seems they don't have enough staff to check all the
prisoners. So some are released after serving their sentences. Homeland Security
has also made a priority of trying to find people with criminal records who've
been ordered deported but failed to leave. But again, they don't seem to have
enough agents to go after them all.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Has the DOJ used the idea that we are 'at war' to justify any
policy or actions ? Are we in a state of war? If so, what event will determine
the end of the war?

Dan Eggen: Certainly it is true that the Bush administration believes that we
are in an unconventional war with terrorists, and that as a result more powers
were necessary for law enforcement and intelligence agencies. Congress and most
of the U.S. public appears to agree.

Our point in this series was the narrower question of how the Justice Department
and the Department of Homeland Security have pursued cases that they deem to be
terrorism-related and how they have presented their track record to the public.

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: What's a terrorist, anyway? It's telling of the White House's
"flexible" definition of the word that they let Luis Posada Carriles - the
former CIA operative who downed a Cuban airliner killing 73 innocents - roam the
country unimpeded for several months (until international press coverage finally
shamed them into hauling him in). Perhaps foreigners fighting immigration
charges here need only express aloud a few virulent anti-Castro sentiments, and
any deeds or suspicions will be overlooked.

Dan Eggen: The definition of terrorism and terrorists is central to this debate
over the Justice Department's terrorism statistics. In the months after 9/11,
virtually any case handled by either the FBI's 9/11 team or by Joint Terrorism
Task Forces across the country was designated as such and put on the list that
the Post examined. Justice officials now say they have tightened their
definitions.

In either case, however, the definition depends only on the initial suspicion or
tip--not whether or not the person really was connected to any terrorist group
or activity. I think that is one of the issues here.

_______________________

Nashville, Tenn.: I am more concerned about the loss of civil liberties of
citizens than of immigrants. I don't think the FBI would need to be taking this
shotgun, grab everything and everyone approach, if they had a Virtual Case File
system that they could be confident in. Your views about that?

Dan Eggen: I'm not sure what impact a lack of decent computers might have had on
these sorts of cases. In a broader sense, though, members of Congress, the
Justice Department inspector general, the 9/11 Commission and many others have
taken the FBI to task for failing to get up to speed quickly (and efficiently)
enough in rebuilding its technology systems. The failure of VCF--which was
abandoned at a loss of at least $104 million--is the latest example of the
problem.

_______________________

Pittsburgh, Pa.: Mary Beth, thank you for a terrific article and exposing the
problems countless immigrants are facing. Your article states it's the second of
two - where's the first? Could you please post a link to it?

Also, I realize Homeland Security officials say they're not targeting any
specific religious or ethnic group, but have you come across or has DHS
officials provided any cases where our government went after minor immigration
infractions of immigrants from, say, the U.K., Canada, Scandinavia?

The problem is that no one in this government has the guts to come out and say
publicly that they're targeting Muslims and Arabs.

Mary Beth Sheridan: Thanks! The first article was by my colleague Dan Eggen and
ran on the front page of the paper yesterday. I think there's a link to it at
the top of the discussion page.

As for your other question: I think Homeland Security agents do detain people
from lots of different countries on immigration charges; but they succeed in
arresting only a small percentage of the illegal population, because DHS doesn't
have the staff to go after everybody. They clearly have focused more on looking
at people who they consider possible national-security threats. Many Muslims and
Arab-Americans feel they're being hit with/charges very few others face. They're
true in some cases. The issue there is whether they've violated the immigration
law, and whether there's reason to scrutinize them. The government argues it's
not profiling but checking out information it receives that links the
individuals to some kind of threat.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: I'm sure that sleeper cell terrorists living in the U.S. are
very pleased with your report. Nice work criticizing the government for using
perfectly legal and logical methods as part of their effort to keep us safe.

Dan Eggen: It's not clear to me how branding innocent immigrants as terrorists
impacts the plans of any real terrorists in our midst. Such tactics might
actually hurt counterterrorism efforts in two ways: by alienating law-abiding
members of immigrant communities who can help the FBI and other authorities, and
by wasting law enforcement time and resources.

Being clear and truthful about the statistics would hardly undermine the war on
terror, but it would give the public a better idea of what's really happening.
Please read our stories: We found 142 cases with a reasonable allegation of a
connection to terrorism. There is no reason the government couldn't use such a
number, which is sizable.

_______________________

Woodbridge, Va.: What is the Homeland Security's response when tactics are used
(such as hovering helicopters and SWAT teams) and they then realize that the
folks they are interviewing are not terrorists and not a threat? Can they
justify their actions?

Mary Beth Sheridan: I think Homeland Security would have to answer the second
part of the question. When I asked why they used a helicopter and SWAT-style
team to arrest a Burke man on immigration charges, they said they had
information he had had weapons and martial-arts training. The man, a Lebanese
immigrant, said that he indeed had a black belt in judo, and knew how to use
weapons because he'd lived in Lebanon during the war there. Homeland Security
officials also pointed out he had a shotgun under his bed. Obviously, federal
agents have to protect themselves when they go into a potentially dangerous
situation, but my impression was that this man didn't pose much danger. (He
doesn't face a terrorism charge and was promptly released from prison by a
judge). By the way, I was told the helicopter was used both to watch for anyone
trying to escape out the back door, and to treat anyone who suffered an injury
(there was a medic or doctor on board).

_______________________

Dallas, Tex.: Quite frankly, I believe both the government and the media in this
country have vastly overblown the terrorist presence as well as their
capabilities. It has been 3.5 yrs since 9/11 and the convictions you mentioned
in the article show the FBI holding an empty hand. Is it too much for the Bureau
to say they overreacted and that Americans are much safer from terrorism than
the hysterical claims of the media/governments?

Dan Eggen: This is certainly the big question of our time. The lack of a
follow-up attack can be argued both ways: either to support the efforts that the
FBI and other agencies have made both here and overseas to combat al Qaeda, or
to argue that there is not much presence here to begin with.

We can only go so far based on the data we examined from the Justice Department.
But based on the cases that have been brought, it is fair to say that they do
not support the idea that hundreds of suspects with terrorist ties have been
arrested or detected. Other independent analyses, including a recent bulletin by
the FBI and CIA, also have raised questions about the extent of an al Qaeda
network in the U.S.

That said, U.S. officials make the good point that it only takes one successful
cell to bring calamity, as happened on 9/11.

_______________________

Nashville, Tenn: "most of the U.S. public appears to agree" I for one don't
agree. The type of actions that are being used by the government to round up
terrorists today are approaching the actions used by the Soviet Union, which in
turn were used to justify the fighting in Vietnam. Also you ducked the question
of how and when the GWOT will declared over.

Dan Eggen: I base my assessment of public opinion on the last couple elections,
which certainly have gone the GOP's way.

As for the global war on terrorism (GWOT), the administration hasn't put a
timeline on it but has repeatedly characterized it as a conflict that could last
a generation or more. Obviously there are critics who disagree.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: You owe your readers better research than to casually refer to
"overstaying a visa" as a routine charge. I see similar references in Washington
Post articles all the time. It shows a profound lack of understanding of U.S.
immigration law.

There are two fundamental categories of U.S. visas: immigrant and non-immigrant,
also known respectively permanent and temporary.

Immigrant visas may be revoked for cause, but never expire due to the running of
time, hence the term permanent.

Any visa that can expire must be a non-immigrant or "temporary" visa (NIV). That
category of visa is only awarded to people wishing to come to the U.S. for a
specific purpose, such as business, study, or tourism. In order to qualify, the
applicant must have a permanent residence outside the U.S. which the applicant
does not intend to abandon. If the person wants to enter as an immigrant he/she
is ineligible for an NIV and must apply for an immigrant visa. Furthermore, most
NIVs do not allow the holder to work or establish a permanent residence. Anyone
obtaining a nonimmigrant visa by concealing their intention to enter to
immigrate commits an act of fraud.

So when you write that someone has "overstayed a visa" you either display a
fundamental lack of understanding of U.S. immigration law (and should not be
writing the article) or you deliberately deceive your readers (who read to
learn) by concealing the fact that the "immigrant" violated the conditions of
the visa by working or establishing a permanent U.S. residence and probably
obtained the visa by fraud.

The Post should know better and do better. Immigration is a serious and
controversial topic. It is made worse by misleading reporting.

Mary Beth Sheridan: I confess to not being an immigration lawyer, though I speak
to them all the time. As a reporter covering immigration, I would take issue
with the idea that every foreigner who overstays his or her legally-alloted time
has committed fraud to get a visa. I think people come here as students or
temporary workers or tourists or whatever, and sometimes stay beyond when
they're supposed to leave, because they discover they love life here or can make
money working, or whatever. I'm not defending that--I think everyone should
follow the law--but I don't think such behavior always reflects a
long-thought-out plan. And as you know, people can get visas that permit them to
come to the United States over a period of years. I do agree with you, however,
that this is a serious and controversial issue.

_______________________

Nashville, Tenn.: "180 cases in which no connection to al Qaeda . . . found in
court records" Your article mentions that they had to get Al Capone on income
tax evasion. On many "Law&Order" TV programs they get the person on whatever
they can. Is there a difference here?

Dan Eggen: Yes, there is a difference. To stretch the Al Capone analogy a bit,
the 180 would be people who don't even know a gangster and have never been one.

In other words, this group of cases in our analysis is quite clear cut. Examples
include the 20 hazmat-related defendants in Pennsylvania, the cornflake
pilferers, a Sudanese actor with a similar name to a terror suspect, a Michigan
man with the same name as the leader of Hezbollah, etc. etc. etc. These are not
even close calls. They ended up on the terror list because of bogus tips,
circumstantial connections, etc.

If the case had any reasonable connection to a terrorist group or activity, we
labeled it as related to terror and gave the government the benefit of the
doubt.

But it should be pointed out that even many of the latter cases turned out to be
either benign or highly debatable.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: How much does the INS depend upon secret evidence in these
cases, and wasn't secret evidence allowed as part of an immigration bill passed
during the Clinton administration? My point is that this may not have that much
to do with 9/11 and more to do with religious and racial profiling that was a
big topic of public debate during the Clinton administration?

Mary Beth Sheridan: Few of these cases seem to involve secret evidence in terms
of the accusations. They all involve ordinary immigration charges--lying on a
naturalization or green-card form, holding a job while a student (which many
student visas forbid), etc. That's the charge the government has to prove. There
have been some cases in which immigration hearings have been ordered closed, but
they seem to be pretty infrequent in the last year or two. The issue of a
person's alleged terrorist ties may emerge in a bond or sentencing hearing, but
I haven't seen any pattern of secret evidence being presented to the judges.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Thanks for two excellent reports.

Both pieces point out problems that the U.S. government is creating for itself
in the area of public diplomacy. As someone who travels outside the U.S.,
including in the Arab and Muslim world, I can attest that incidents of law
enforcement efforts that are perceived to be - and in some case are in fact -
unjust, capricious or disproportionate contribute to an image of America that is
increasingly negative.

Do you have any evidence that this issue is taken into account by policy makers?
Is there any direction being given at senior levels of government to make law
enforcement in the U.S. more transparent and more fair?

Dan Eggen: The Justice Department has not officially released their list of
terrorism cases since they published a much shorter version containing less than
100 names shortly after 9/11. Officials say they are concerned, among other
things, about the legal ramifications of releasing a list of names associated
with "terrorism-related" probes. However, officials continue to use the numbers
from the list in speeches and other public statements.

_______________________

Pittsburgh, Pa.: Have you come across any cases where DHS/ICE arrested Muslim or
Arab immigrants after receiving, say, a letter or a phone call from someone
essentially trying to settle a grudge?

I realize this document got very little play in the media, certainly not like
the Abu Ghraib report, but Glenn Fine's massive report on our treatment of 9/11
detainees was very telling. Have either of you looked at that report?

Mary Beth Sheridan: I did read the Fine report while researching my story, and
it was really interesting. Obviously as the IG he had access to a lot of
information. I don't know specific instances in which someone was identified as
a national-security threat by an acquaintance with a grudge, but I could see how
that could happen. Anti-terrorism agents certainly get anonymous tips that they
investigate. In fairness, though, the agents have to run down every report that
seems like it could be credible. And if they discover the person is innocent of
any terror ties but is in the country illegally, I think it's legitimate to
charge the person with that.

_______________________

Dan Eggen: Thanks to everyone for your great questions. Keep reading!

_______________________

Mary Beth Sheridan: Thanks from me too. Sorry we couldn't answer all your
questions, but we noted every one. We appreciate your thoughts.

Mary Beth

_______________________

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 9, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

New Intelligence Chief Backed;
But Reform Package Hinges on Congressional Negotiations

BYLINE: Charles Babington and Helen Dewar, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 1122 words


The House voted yesterday to retool the nation's intelligence structure and
immigration policies, creating the widely supported position of intelligence
director while adopting contentious provisions that would make it easier to
detain and deport illegal immigrants.

The 282 to 134 vote follows action in the Senate earlier this week approving a
new national director and counterterrorism center to coordinate the nation's 15
intelligence-gathering agencies and anti-terrorism strategies. Those were top
priorities of the commission that studied the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, a panel
that spurred Congress to action with a hard-hitting report in July.

But the House and Senate versions of the intelligence reform legislation differ
in many significant ways, and the two chambers must work out their differences
before a final bill can emerge. The bill that overwhelmingly passed the Senate
on Wednesday omits many House immigration and law enforcement provisions that
prompted sharp debates.

If a handful of House and Senate negotiators can resolve all differences in the
two extensive bills, the House and Senate will send a  unified measure to
President Bush for his signature, perhaps a few days before the Nov. 2 election.

The vote came as lawmakers struggled to complete work on a broad range of
issues, including corporate tax cuts, homeland security spending, and drought
and hurricane relief. Lawmakers had hoped to adjourn by the weekend and return
home to campaign. But conflict in the Senate over the tax cut and a buyout for
tobacco producers may force Congress to continue working well into next week.

Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist
(R-Tenn.) voiced optimism that the differences the two intelligence measures can
be overcome.

"It is no surprise that the House and Senate have passed different bills," the
two said in a joint statement. "They are different institutions. But there is
much in common with these bills, and we believe that we can reconcile the
differences quickly yet responsibly."

Several lawmakers, however, said it was unclear whether senators and House
members can reconcile the two bills, given their many differences and the recent
days of tough rhetoric, especially from House Republican leaders, suggesting
little willingness to compromise.

"Some say that the real goal of the Republican leadership" is to produce a bill
"that cannot be reconciled with the Senate bill before the election," Rep.
Carolyn B. Maloney (D-N.Y.) said shortly before the House rejected, 223 to 193,
her bid to substitute the Senate language for the House bill. The leaders of the
bipartisan Sept. 11 commission have signaled they prefer the Senate version,
while critiquing the House bill in diplomatic terms. The Senate bill passed 96
to 2, with all Republicans backing it.

Both House and Senate bills would create a national intelligence director to
coordinate the activities of the CIA and several other intelligence agencies
throughout the government. The Senate bill would authorize the director to
"determine the annual budget" for intelligence agencies and to "control and
manage" their accounts. The House bill would permit the director only to
"develop and present to the president" a budget plan for the agencies.

Unlike the House bill, the Senate bill would declassify the annual amount spent
on intelligence and create a civil liberties board to safeguard individuals'
rights as the nation combats terrorism.

Yesterday's sharpest House debate focused on a provision that would have allowed
the government to deport alien criminals and terror suspects to nations that
might torture them. Many such suspects, backers said, have been released in the
United States because a court ruling bars their deportation or long-term
incarceration. The House amended the provision to allow the secretary of
homeland security to detain such suspects indefinitely.

House members clashed on another question of expedited deportations. Current law
allows agents to quickly deport illegal immigrants, without a judge's review, if
they have been in this nation less than two years. The House bill would make the
cutoff five years, expanding the pool of immigrants subject to such expedited
deportations.

On the House bill's final passage, 213 Republicans and 69 Democrats voted aye,
while eight Republicans, 125 Democrats and one independent voted no. Washington
area lawmakers voting for the bill were Reps. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), Steny
H. Hoyer (D-Md.), Wayne T. Gilchrest (R-Md.) and Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.). Voting
against it were Reps. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) and
Albert R. Wynn (D-Md.).

The House bill postpones action on another major recommendation of the Sept. 11
commission: Revamping congressional oversight of intelligence. The Senate is
weighing the issue, but efforts stalled yesterday because of a bitter fight --
and stubborn deadlock -- over unrelated issues such as disaster relief and
tobacco regulation.

As of late yesterday, exasperated lawmakers were preparing for a rare weekend
session and the possibility of remaining in session into next week.

Among those who moved to block action were Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), who is
angry over Republican plans to pay for disaster relief by slashing a farm
conservation program he has championed, and Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.)
and Mike DeWine (R-Ohio), who are demanding Food and Drug Administration
regulation of tobacco as part of the buyout program.

Later, Sen. Pete V. Domenici (R-N.M.) complaining about an extension of dairy
subsidies opposed by western lawmakers, said the dairy dispute could prolong the
session beyond Monday or Tuesday.

The approaching elections appeared to sharpen the divisions, with Republicans
accusing Democrats of "obstructionist" tactics and Democrats accusing
Republicans of pursuing a "special interest agenda" that thwarted bipartisan
cooperation on key issues.

Before work stopped on the oversight plan, the Senate whittled away at the
jurisdiction of a proposed new Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee by voting to leave some of the biggest components of the Department of
Homeland Security under control of other committees. It has approved some
strengthening of the select intelligence committee but rejected a recommendation
of the Sept. 11 commission that it be given control over spending as well as
policy for intelligence agencies.

Meanwhile, congressional negotiators on the 2005 defense authorization bill
agreed to increase troop strength for the Army and Marines and push ahead with
next year's round of military base closings. The bill is slated for approval by
both chambers before Congress leaves for the elections.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              34 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 21, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Intelligence Reform Hits a Hurdle;
Lawmakers at Odds on Immigration, Civil Liberties Board

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A27

LENGTH: 837 words


The opening round of House-Senate negotiations meant to craft a bill
restructuring the nation's intelligence community ended in discord yesterday as
lawmakers disagreed on whether tougher immigration rules and a new civil
liberties board should be part of the package.

The nearly three-hour public meeting culminated in partisan squabbling and
offered few clues as to whether negotiators can resolve the many differences in
time to reconvene Congress, vote on the measure and send it to President Bush
before the Nov. 2 elections. Numerous advocates have said momentum and public
pressure for action will subside after the elections. Negotiators plan to meet
again today.

Both chambers generally agree on the need to create a national intelligence
director and a counterterrorism center in response to the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks, but they differ on how much power to give the director. More
problematic, they also differ on whether to expand government powers to easily
deport foreign suspects and to conduct surveillance on citizens and noncitizens.

In their first gathering, 17 members of the House-Senate conference committee
gave speeches that outlined key differences in the two competing bills, each
more than 500 pages. Several touted the need for a civil liberties board to
safeguard citizens' privacy and rights in the face of enhanced government
surveillance in the hunt for terrorists.

"We would be handing the terrorists a victory if we compromise the very freedoms
that define us as Americans," said Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), head of the
Senate delegation.

Supporting her position is the bipartisan Sept. 11 commission, which goaded
Congress into action with its hard-hitting July report on government
deficiencies in intelligence and anti-terrorism efforts. A civil liberties board
is vital and its members "must be Senate-confirmed" and "have strong
investigative powers," said a four-page letter sent to the negotiators yesterday
by the commission's top members -- former New Jersey governor Thomas H. Kean (R)
and former representative Lee H. Hamilton (D-Ind.).

The House and the Bush administration oppose the plan. They note that Bush has
created a civil liberties board in the executive branch. But senators and the
Sept. 11 commissioners say that board's members have little independence or
power.

House negotiators, meanwhile, strongly defended several measures in their bill
that would enhance border-control efforts and make it easier to deport certain
categories of immigrants with little or no review by a judge. "These are not
extraneous provisions," said Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.). "They are
vital."

The conference committee's chairman, Rep. Peter Hoekstra (R-Mich.), surprised
senators and House Democrats by announcing plans to offer "a good-faith global
effort" to begin reaching compromises on key points. House Republicans and White
House advisers were putting final touches on the plan, he said, prompting an
outcry from Democrats in both chambers.

"I would question the usefulness of a Republican House product introduced this
late in the process," said Rep. Jane Harman (Calif.), the conference committee's
top House Democrat.

Hoekstra agreed to start outlining his plan in closed meetings with Harman,
Collins and Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.). Yesterday evening, aides to
those lawmakers said little progress had been made.

Some senators urged conferees to use the Kean-Hamilton letter as a guideline for
resolving differences on intelligence matters. The letter said the new national
intelligence director "must have authority to approve and submit a unified
budget for national intelligence . . . and a significant role in determining the
budgets for intelligence agencies" in the Department of Defense. The director
also "must have full authority over the non-military personnel in the
intelligence community," the letter said. Those recommendations track more
closely with the Senate bill than the House bill.

Negotiations on other matters may prove more difficult. The Kean-Hamilton letter
said, "We believe strongly that this bill is not the right occasion for tackling
controversial immigration and law enforcement issues that go well beyond the
commission's recommendations."

But the White House has endorsed some provisions in the House bill. They include
recommendations to limit the judicial appeal options of people facing
deportation; to make visa revocation automatic grounds for being deported; and
to give the secretary of homeland security the power to detain foreign suspects
indefinitely under various circumstances.

Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.) urged his fellow conferees to deal only
with intelligence issues, leaving contentious questions of immigration and law
enforcement to the next Congress. "That's the big question of the will of the
conference," he said.

Sensenbrenner said, however, "history will judge us poorly if we miss this
opportunity" to give agents new weapons to track, detain and deport terrorism
suspects.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              35 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Northern Neighbor Offers a Liberal Haven;
Frustrated U.S. Voters Look to Canada

BYLINE: Gene Johnson, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Got the blue-state blues? Rudi Kischer feels your pain.

The Vancouver, B.C., immigration lawyer plans seminars in three U.S. cities --
Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles -- to tell Americans frustrated with
President Bush's reelection that the grass is greener north of the border. And
that's not just an allusion to Canada's lenient marijuana laws.

"We started last year getting a lot of calls from Americans dissatisfied with
the way the country is going," Kischer said. "Then after the election, it's been
crazy up here. The Canadian immigration Web site had 115,000 hits the day after
the election  -- from the U.S. alone. We usually only get 20,000 hits."

There was so much interest that a Vancouver-based Internet company,
Communicopia, set up a new Web site this month  -- www.canadianalternative.com
-- to suggest Canada as a viable option for its American clients, including
anyone concerned about constitutional bans on  same-sex marriage passed in 11
states this month.

"We invite you to get to know Canada," the site says. "Explore the richness and
diversity of our regions. And find out why Canada is the perfect alternative for
conscientious, forward-thinking Americans."

Canada suddenly has utopian appeal for many left-leaning Americans. Its
universal health care, gay rights, abortion rights, gun-control laws, drug laws,
opposition to the Iraq war, ban on capital punishment and ethnic diversity
mirror many values of the American left. Immigrants, including an estimated 1
million Americans, make up nearly 20 percent of Canada's population. The United
Nations named Toronto the world's most multicultural city.

And, as Michael Moore pointed out in "Bowling for Columbine" -- required viewing
for many lefties -- in Canada, there is apparently no reason to lock your door.

On the other hand, it's cold. The baseball is not very good -- so long, Expos.
And the taxes are higher, eh?

But, as one American who has his bags nearly packed likes to say, at least the
taxes go toward good causes.

"I just like their way of life a lot better, and with everything the Bush
administration has done -- for the American people to give him their seal of
approval, it's basically the last straw," said Ralph Appoldt, a resident of
Portland, in the barely blue state of Oregon. "Canada's basic population is much
more intelligent, polite and civilized. I like their way of government a lot
better. Their tax dollars go to helping those who need it, instead of funneling
money back up to the wealthy and feeding this huge military-industrial machine."

Appoldt, 50, a sales manager, and his wife, a nurse, figure that selling their
house and getting their immigration approved could take more than a year. But
they are moving, they insist. They have already hired Kischer to help them.

Though he may see a good business opportunity following the election, Kischer
has no illusions of a mass American exodus to Canada. Yanks have to follow the
same procedures as everybody else -- including the $500 application fee, the
$975 landing tax and the wait of six months to two years. He only expects about
100 people at each of the how-to-move-to-Canada seminars, all scheduled in
blue-state cities -- Dec. 4 in Seattle, Dec. 5 in Los Angeles and Dec. 6 in San
Francisco.

Nancy Bray, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada, said her
agency's Web site received 261,000 hits from the United States in the two days
following the election, but it will be many months before officials can estimate
how many of them were serious.

"Our interest, our goal, is to attract the best possible immigrants," Bray says.
"If there's a lot of publicity about our country, that's to our benefit. But
we're not interested in people's political leanings or political
dissatisfaction."

Jason Mogus, Communicopia's chief executive, said that although  his company
wants  to help interested Americans, moving to Canada should be plan B.

"We strongly encourage Americans to stay and build a culture in line with their
values," Mogus said. "In other words, stay and fight."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              36 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 2, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Widows Face U.S. Deportation;
Foreign-Born Spouses Fail to Meet Residency Rule

BYLINE: Blaine Harden, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1208 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. Dec. 1


Carla Arabella Freeman's descent into the looking-glass world of U.S.
immigration law began two years ago when a Pepsi truck crushed her husband to
death.

The truck jumped a median strip, pulverized her husband's car and, as she found
out early this year, made her a widow who must leave the United States.

Freeman, 27, a South African who came to the United States as an au pair, was
married for nearly a year to Robert Freeman, an American who worked for Costco.
As his wife, she had applied for permanent resident status and was waiting for
what usually would have been routine approval.

But the truck that killed Robert Freeman also set in motion an inexorable legal
procedure that in May put his widow in shackles in a holding cell in Portland.
An immigration officer here ordered that she be deported. Under the law, a
foreigner married to an American for less than two years loses his or her right
to permanent residence if the spouse dies.

On Thursday afternoon at Kennedy Airport in New York, Freeman will fly back to
South Africa to see her father, who has been sick, giving up what scant hope she
had of any successful appeal. Once her plane leaves the ground, she cannot
return to the United States for at least 10 years.

"Everything has just crumbled," she said in Portland this week, after a long day
of packing and scrambling to get travel documents for her dog, cat and parakeet.
"I guess it is hard for Americans to trust anyone coming to this country anymore
-- even people like me, who want to live here legally."

Legal experts say that what has happened to Freeman is happening across the
country. At least 25 other foreign-born surviving spouses and perhaps many more
-- most of them widows -- are on the brink of deportation, according to the
American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington.

Many of these widows have infants -- U.S. citizens -- who will be de facto
deportees when their mothers exhaust their appeals and are ordered out of the
country.

"Deporting widows and children says bad things about our country," said Judith
E. Golub, senior director of advocacy for the immigration lawyers group. "This
is just another example of the inflexibility and injustice in our immigration
laws that call out for thorough and systematic reform.

"Carla Freeman had to deal with the death of her husband, and now she has to
deal with this. Inflexible laws breed intolerable situations."

The two-year rule was added to immigration law in 1990, when there was
widespread concern about foreigners using sham marriages to get "green cards"
for permanent residence. Since then, Congress has passed exemptions for widows
of the 2001 terrorist attacks and for surviving spouses of active-duty service
personnel killed in combat.

There are no exemptions, however, for spouses of Pepsi-truck victims, and
immigration lawyers said successful appeals of the two-year rule are extremely
rare.

"This is a crack in the law, and Carla fell into it," said Brent W. Renison,
Freeman's attorney and an immigration specialist.

Renison said that in many other areas of immigration law where time limits are
imposed on foreigners seeking permanent residence that there are waivers when
spouses, parents or children die.

"But in this particular circumstance, Congress just forgot to do it," Renison
said.

Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Tex.), ranking minority member of the House Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration, introduced a bill this summer to amend the law. It
would have nullified the two-year rule in cases in which a surviving spouse
could prove a good-faith marriage.

The bill remains in committee, but Republicans in the House say there is a
possibility they might act on it.

"Nobody has made a policy decision on its merits," said Jeff Lungren, a
spokesman for the Judiciary Committee. "It very well may be meritorious, and if
so, it would likely be considered next year."

Carla Freeman said she is luckier than other women caught in the web of the
two-year rule. She has no children. She won a $3 million wrongful-death
settlement after her husband's accident. She can afford a first-rate immigration
lawyer, who has appealed her case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th
Circuit.

"There are women in my situation who have it worse," Freeman said. "They have
babies and in-laws who are devoted to the grandkids."

In Orlando, Maria Raquel Pascoal, 26, is one of those women. The Brazilian had
been married one year and eight months when her husband died in bed of sleep
apnea. He was 30. The couple had a 3-month-old son.

"Now I am waiting for this law to force me to leave," Pascoal said in a phone
interview. "We are shocked by this. It is very difficult to go back to Brazil
and start a new life with my son. He is very attached to my parents-in-law. We
live with them."

Pascoal, who is studying nursing at Valencia Community College in Orlando, said
she prays that the law will change or "someone with a good heart will decide
that I can stay."

That seems unlikely.

In Carla Freeman's case, three U.S. senators from Oregon and Washington and a
congressman from Portland wrote a letter to the head of customs enforcement in
Portland, asking for mercy.

"We encourage you to explore whatever means possible to exercise prosecutorial
discretion in this case and take no action to remove Ms. Freeman from the U.S.
at this time," the letter said.

Three days later, the answer came. At a hearing, Freeman was handed an order
from an immigration officer that said: "You are not entitled to status as an
immediate relative."

Her jewelry was taken from her, her ankles were shackled, and she was kept in a
holding cell for seven hours until her attorney obtained her release on the
condition that she not travel outside the state without permission. She got
permission last weekend to visit her husband's grave site for what may be the
last time.

Freeman, a rail-thin woman who is just over 5 feet tall, met her late husband in
a karaoke bar in Chicago. That was in March 2000, and her job as an au pair was
coming to an end.

She returned to South Africa, but Robert came after her eight months later.
After receiving her father's blessing, they were married in February 2001 and
moved to Merrillville, Ind., where Robert was a manager at a Costco store.

They had been married 11 months when Robert, on his morning drive to work, was
killed by the truck. In mourning, Freeman moved to her late husband's home town
of Clarkston in eastern Washington state, where she lived with her
sister-in-law's family for a year. She later moved to the Seattle area and then
Portland, where she looked for work in the hotel trade.

"My dad has been in the catering business for years, and I grew up in the
business," she said. "If they hadn't taken away my right to work, I probably
would have had a really good job by now in a really good hotel."

Freeman did not have to leave Thursday. She could have stayed until her appeal
was exhausted, probably for a year or so.

But she said she is worried that, if something were to happen to her father, it
could take weeks to sort out the paperwork that would allow her to travel
outside the United States.

"After the death of my husband," she said, "I wasn't prepared to take that risk.
So now I leave."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              37 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Backlog Forces Justice to Shift Staffing;
Hundreds of Lawyers Being Reassigned to Deal With More Than 4,000 Appeals in New
York City

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 963 words


The Justice Department is ordering hundreds of its lawyers in Washington and
around the country to take on immigration cases as part of an emergency effort
to clear a large backlog in the New York federal courts, according to Justice
officials.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit in New York City, which covers New
York, Connecticut and Vermont, currently has a backlog of more than 4,000
immigration appeals, most of them asylum claims, according to federal officials.

At the Manhattan U. S. attorney's office, the 10 lawyers assigned to handle
immigration reviews have as many as 400 cases each on their dockets, officials
said. Appellate judges, impatient with the growing backlog, have in recent
months begun rapidly scheduling hearings in an effort to speed the cases along.

The escalating problem prompted Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey to issue
a directive last month ordering lawyers at Justice Department headquarters in
Washington and in U.S. attorney's offices across the country to step in and help
clear the backlog, Justice officials said. The assignments have only just begun,
but officials said they expect hundreds, and possibly thousands, of Justice
attorneys from across the country to be involved in the effort, including many
with no experience in immigration law who must undergo special training.

"It's gotten to be the point where we can't do it," said a senior prosecutor for
the Southern District of New York in Manhattan. "We don't have the manpower to
do that many briefs."

The backlog in New York underscores a broader surge in immigration appeals cases
over the past three years, much of it due to more aggressive prosecution of
illegal immigrants by the Bush administration. The number of appeals by
immigrants who have been ordered deported by the Justice Department has risen by
nearly 1,000 percent during that period, according to federal statistics. Most
have been ordered to leave for allegedly violating immigration rules or because
their request for asylum has been rejected, authorities said.

Government officials and immigration experts said part of the increase is an
unintended consequence of a streamlining plan announced by Attorney General John
D. Ashcroft in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The plan was aimed at
clearing a backlog of 55,000 cases in immigration courts, which are handled
within the Justice Department and overseen by administrative judges. The effort
has so far reduced the number of pending cases to about 33,000, according to
statistics compiled by the Justice Department's Executive Office for Immigration
Review.

But the changes also have resulted in the dramatic increase in appeals to
federal courts, which serve as the final arbiter for immigration cases after
they have been reviewed and decided within the administrative system at Justice.
According to the immigration review office, federal courts received about 125
appeals per month before the restructuring; since then, the number has surged to
as many as 1,200 a month nationwide.

"Any backlog that was bubbling at the administrative level has been transferred
elsewhere," said Marshall Fitz, associate director of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association in Washington, which has criticized Ashcroft's reforms.
"They didn't really get rid of the backlogs. They've displaced them to the
federal courts."

Under the reorganization plan announced by Ashcroft in February 2002,
administrative judges on the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) in the Justice
Department were for the first time allowed to decide most cases alone rather
than as part of three-judge panels. The new rules also sharply limited the
ability of appellate judges to review the facts of individual cases and reduced
by half the number of judges available to hear administrative appeals.

The result has been a dramatic drop in the number of administrative decisions
favoring immigrants and a simultaneous increase in the number of appeals to the
federal court system, according to a study by the American Bar Association and
federal statistics. New petitions have increased from 5 percent of all cases two
years ago to about 25 percent currently, the Justice Department said.

The influx has hit the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney David N. Kelley
particularly hard. For more than 40 years, the federal prosecutor in Manhattan
has handled immigration appeals from throughout the 2nd Circuit. All other such
appeals are handled by a special unit at Justice headquarters in Washington
called the Office of Immigration Litigation.

Although the Washington office has also been deluged with cases, the small staff
in Kelley's office has been overwhelmed, according to federal officials. With
only about 10 attorneys formally assigned to handle the appeals, Kelley already
has tapped lawyers throughout the New York office and neighboring U.S.
attorney's offices to help with the overflow, officials said.

Comey's directive, which Justice officials in Washington declined to release,
expands the effort to U.S. attorney's offices around the country and to the
Washington headquarters, including antitrust, criminal, civil and other
litigating divisions, officials said.

Justice officials said the squads will have to review more than 2,000 cases that
have been scheduled for hearings at the 2nd Circuit over the next four months,
plus an estimated 2,000 more that will soon reach that stage. Authorities also
said they do not expect the problem to ease: In the 2nd Circuit alone,
immigration appeals made up nearly half the entire docket for the year that
ended in June, compared with just 9 percent of all cases two years earlier.

"We don't expect this to let up," one Justice official said. "You've got a
situation where the system is just overwhelmed."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              38 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 26, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Rules and Fairness

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 140 words


President Bush's push for changing immigration legislation is at first glance a
positive sign [front page, Dec. 20]. But on second look, it is enraging and
unfair.

As someone who is trying to immigrate legally to the United States, I feel that
granting amnesty to those who are undocumented (here legally or illegally) is
upsetting. My family has been waiting three years -- and will be waiting at
least another seven -- for our paperwork. We follow procedures, rules and laws
as precisely and accurately as possible. Yet the undocumented will be rewarded
for not following U.S. immigration procedures.

I hope the Bush administration realizes that its priorities are askew. It should
be concentrating on fixing the grueling family immigration system, which leaves
family members such as mine apart for years on end.

SALMA KHALIL

New York

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              39 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 4, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

True Border Security

SECTION: Editorial; A14

LENGTH: 434 words


AT HIS YEAR-END news conference, President  Bush was passionate in his support
for liberalization of the nation's immigration laws, and in particular for
changes that would allow legal status for temporary workers in the country, on
security grounds if nothing else: "We want our Border Patrol agents chasing
crooks and thieves and drug runners and terrorists, not good-hearted people who
are coming here to work," he said. Yet only days earlier, he had agreed to help
House Republicans pass more restrictive border control legislation in exchange
for their support for a bill that reshaped the intelligence bureaucracy.

Probably as early as today, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Rep.
F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), will seek to collect on the president's
offer of support, introducing legislation that would make it more difficult for
foreigners to gain political asylum, prevent states from issuing driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants and mandate the extension of a fence along the
Mexican border. Mr. Sensenbrenner has said he views these measures as border
security, not immigration reform. He has resisted calls to expand them to
include other measures that were under discussion during the intelligence reform
debate, such as procedures to expedite  deportations. Nevertheless, these
legislative changes are quite different in spirit from the broad changes the
president says he favors.

There are Republicans who support the president's larger ideas too. Sen. Chuck
Hagel (Neb.) recently co-sponsored a bipartisan bill that would create temporary
work visas. Sen. Larry E. Craig (Idaho) and Rep. Chris Cannon (Utah) have both
co-sponsored bipartisan bills creating work visas for migrant farm workers. Sen.
John McCain and Reps. Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, all Republicans of Arizona, have
also proposed reform legislation. The details of their bills differ, but they
have in common something that the House's narrower measures do not: They
recognize that the flow of workers into this country is both permanent and
popular, ensuring  everything from inexpensive food to an abundant supply of
graduate students -- and that true border security ultimately rests on
documenting and legalizing that flow of workers. If the president actually
believes in what he says, he should start now to work with Democrats,
immigration advocates and those members of his party who want comprehensive
rather than piecemeal change. That means either putting some details into his
own vague reform proposals or throwing political weight behind one or more of
the bills already on the table.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              40 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 6, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Past Crime Clouds Immigrant's Future;
Government Wants to Deport Man From Vietnam Who Thought Troubles Were Over

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T03

LENGTH: 833 words


When Hung Dai Trang left for a five-week vacation in his native Vietnam, he
thought he was a legal U.S. resident, free to come and go as he pleased.

Two years earlier, an immigration judge had ruled in his favor when the
government tried to deport him because he had been convicted of assault as a
teenager at Richard Montgomery High School in Rockville.

Just before his trip, he says, immigration officials approved his reentry
permit.

But when Trang returned to Dulles International Airport in February 2003, he was
handcuffed. The Gaithersburg businessman, 28, has been sitting in a jail cell
ever since.

Government lawyers, through numerous court appearances and filed appeals, have
been trying to send him back to Vietnam -- a country that has no deportation
agreement with the United States -- or to a third country that agrees to accept
him. The U.S. government and Trang's attorneys filed briefings Dec. 27 before
the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals. If Trang wins this appeal, which could
take months to decide, the case is over. If he doesn't, the case will go back to
the immigration courts.

"I thought I was through with my case," said Trang in a recent interview at the
St. Mary's County Detention Center in Leonardtown.  "I didn't do anything, but
I'm in jail."

Trang, who immigrated to the United States with his large extended family when
he was 13, is among an increasing number of longtime U.S. residents caught up in
an immigration system that the government says is part of a tougher security
stance but critics say is confusing and keeps people languishing in jail for
years while their case is decided.

"Any vulnerability in our immigration system represents a vulnerability to our
national security," said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security. "We will
aggressively enforce those laws."

Immigration lawyers say that the laws unfairly punish immigrants if they make a
simple mistake -- in Trang's case, leaving the country when he thought his legal
matter was finished. They say the aggressive enforcement actions are misdirected
because the targets are often people who aren't a threat to American security.

"These cases are deeply shocking for many immigrants who think of America as a
land of justice," said Nancy Morawetz, a New York University law professor who
specializes in deportation cases. "It's unbelievable that this kind of thing
happens, but it does happen, and it happens all the time."

Trang's troubles began when he applied for citizenship in 1998. In 1996,
Congress passed a law that allows the United States to deport noncitizens --
including those with green cards -- if they have had criminal convictions and
sentences of one year or more. Government statistics show nearly 9,800
immigrants with green cards were deported in fiscal year 2004.

Trang had been convicted of assault in 1995 for beating up another teenager with
a stick during a fight and served two years of probation, but immigration law
can be applied retroactively. "He continued to be an aggravated felon," Knocke
said, referring to the law's interpretation.

Sennie Trang, his sister, and Mary Ann Berlin, his attorney, say the most
frustrating aspect of his case is that he has come close to being released a few
times.

In May, an immigration judge ordered that he be released on a $6,500 bond, but
government lawyers filed an appeal asking that Trang be kept in detention. They
said he had already left the country for Vietnam while he had been under
deportation orders.

In August, an immigration judge ruled that Trang was no longer removable as an
"aggravated felon" because the Montgomery County courts had modified his
sentence for the assault conviction so it no longer qualified as an aggravated
felony. The government filed another appeal three days later.

In October, Trang was accepted into a program that would allow him to serve his
detention at home, through electronic monitoring. But just as detention officers
drove him from the jail, they received a call saying that a mistake had been
made, according to Trang and a detention officer. He was taken back to jail.

"It's just horrible," Berlin said. "You leave a courtroom, and you've won your
case . . . and little that you know that within the next 30 days, the government
has taken an appeal."

Sennie Trang said the family has spent more than $30,000 on legal bills. The
mall kiosks that her brother operated have been closed and put up for sale.

In the past few years, Sennie Trang said, nearly all of their relatives in the
United States have been able to become naturalized citizens. One of their
nephews served a tour of duty recently in Iraq with the Army's 101st Airborne.

Hung Trang said that if he gets out of prison, he will never leave the country
or even go far from his Gaithersburg home, which he shares with his elderly
parents.

"I just want to go home and go to work," Trang said. "I'm scared they will get
me again."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              41 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 13, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Court Rules Against Detention of Cubans;
Justices Back Deportation of Somali

BYLINE: Darryl Fears and Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 1070 words


The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that the government cannot continue to detain
two Cuban illegal immigrants who have completed their sentences for felony
convictions while it seeks to deport them back to a nation that refuses to
accept them.

The court's 7 to 2 ruling could lead to the release of more than 700 Cuban
nationals who are being held indefinitely, as well as of more than 170
immigrants from other nations around the world.

In a second immigration case, the court ruled 5 to 4 in favor of the government,
determining that Department of Homeland Security officials can lawfully deport a
Somali immigrant back to his native country even though it lacks a functioning
government. The ruling could affect more than 4,000 Somalis around the country
who are deportable.

The ruling in favor of Cubans Sergio Suarez Martinez and Daniel Benitez affirmed
an earlier decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in San
Francisco and reversed the 11th Circuit court in Atlanta, which had ruled
against the men.

Martinez and Benitez came to the United States during the Mariel boatlift in
1980 and were eventually allowed to reside here. Both were later convicted of
felonies, including armed robbery and burglary by Martinez and aggravated
battery by Benitez. They served multi-year sentences before being processed for
deportation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which was absorbed by
the new Department of Homeland Security in 2003.

Writing for the majority, Justice Antonin Scalia noted that Martinez and Benitez
were held beyond the 90 days allowed to process a typical deportee's removal, as
well as the six months that the high court set in a prior immigration case,
Zadvydas v. Davis, involving the removal of a convicted felon. In addition,
Scalia wrote, a lower court had determined that deportation to Cuba is not
reasonably foreseeable.

"The government [has] brought forward nothing to indicate that a substantial
likelihood of removal subsists despite the passage of six months," Scalia
concluded.

Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs
Enforcement section, said authorities are still examining the rulings and how
they might affect day-to-day operations.

"We're confident we will be able to continue our mission of restoring integrity
to the nation's immigration system while complying with the high court's
rulings," he said. He said the Benitez case could affect 747 Cubans who came in
the Mariel boatlift and are still incarcerated in the United States, as well as
173 people from other countries who are still detained.

Anti-immigration groups condemned the court's decision in the case, saying that
the justices are putting U.S. citizens in danger by allowing felons to be
released into the general population.

"These are people who have no standing whatsoever to be inside the country at
all," said Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform. "These cases throw the control over repatriation of dangerous criminals
to the country of origin. It gives the Castros of the world the opportunity to
unload the really bad guys and stick it to us."

Immigration activists saw the ruling differently. "It is deeply unjust to leave
people rotting indefinitely in prison long after they've finished paying their
debt to society, simply because they are not citizens," said Susan Benesch,
refugee advocate for Amnesty International USA. "Isn't it even more unfair to
allow Castro to decide who is going to sit in prison for years at a time without
any conviction?"

"The court's decision adds to a growing list of recent Supreme Court rulings
affirming the rights of  noncitizens  and overturning the Bush administration's
overreaching claims," added Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil
Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights Project. "These rulings underscore that
checks and balances are essential to safeguarding both liberty and security."

In the case of the Somali, Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the
court decided against Keyse G. Jama, 25, a Minneapolis resident who lost his
refugee status after pleading guilty to assault charges in 1999.

The U.S. government does not generally try to deport immigrants to countries
that refuse to accept them because in most cases that would be literally
impossible. However, the law is not clear on whether  noncitizens  can be sent
back to countries without a government.

In Somalia there is no government to oppose deportation. In writing for the
majority, Scalia concluded that the complex regulations governing deportation
allow the United States to forcibly repatriate immigrants without their
countries' acquiescence.

"To infer an absolute rule of acceptance where Congress has not clearly set it
forth would run counter to our customary policy of deference to the president in
matters of foreign affairs," he wrote.

Government attorneys had argued that curbing the government's ability to deport
people to Somalia would be especially troubling because that African country has
been linked to terrorism.

In the minority opinion, Justice David H. Souter argued that the regulations
have previously been interpreted as requiring the receiving country to accept
the deported immigrant.

The case has implications that go far beyond a single immigrant in Minneapolis.
A class-action lawsuit on behalf of 4,000 Somalis that originated in Seattle is
pending in an appellate court. It argues that they cannot be sent home without
that nation's permission. Two years ago, a Seattle judge in that case issued an
injunction halting the deportation. The U.S. government can now seek to have the
injunction lifted.

"It would be our sincere hope that Homeland Security doesn't proceed to remove
people to Somalia under the current conditions there," said Nick Gellert, a
Seattle lawyer who represents the Somali nationals. "It's not just a matter of
legal principle. It's a matter of humanitarian issues."

The Somalis face deportation because they are in the country illegally or are
legal residents but have been convicted of a crime.

Yusuf Ahmed, a local Somali leader, said the decision would be disturbing to
thousands of Somalis in the Washington area.

"There is no government back home. The refugees who come here run for their
lives. I'm sure that when they go back, they will be facing harsh situations of
killing, raping or bad things," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              42 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 16, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Too Quick to Judge 'Absconders'

SECTION: Editorial; B06

LENGTH: 268 words


The Jan. 2 front-page article "Tracking Down Immigrant Fugitives" focused on
attempts by the Department of Homeland Security to detain people who have
disobeyed orders to leave the country. But many of these immigrants do not
realize that they are "absconders" in the eyes of the immigration service.

Why? Because they never received a hearing notice from the agency, and the
hearings were held in their absence.

The immigration agency is notoriously poor at updating its address databases, so
it often sends hearing notices and other correspondence to outdated or incorrect
addresses. Equally troubling is that our immigration laws allow such hearings to
be conducted without the immigrant being present.

In other cases, immigrants have been mislabeled "absconders" as a result of
other agency errors. For example, a physician in rural Alabama recently was
picked up as an "absconder." He had sent a letter years earlier to the
immigration service withdrawing his application for asylum. He then had returned
to his country, obtained a work visa and returned legally to the United States.
But our immigration system never placed the letter withdrawing his asylum
application into his permanent file. As a result, it sent a notice of his asylum
interview -- a notice he never received -- and held an in absentia hearing
during which the judge ordered him deported.

Most immigrants who come to this country try to follow the rules, but we have a
dysfunctional immigration system desperately in need of improvement.

JEANNE BUTTERFIELD

Executive Director

American Immigration Lawyers Association

Washington

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              43 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 20, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Past Crime Clouds Immigrant's Future;
Government Wants to Deport Man From Vietnam Who Thought Troubles Were Over

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Anne Arundel Extra; T05

LENGTH: 827 words


When Hung Dai Trang left for a five-week vacation in his native Vietnam, he
thought he was a legal U.S. resident, free to come and go as he pleased.

Two years earlier, an immigration judge had ruled in his favor when the
government tried to deport him because he had been convicted of assault as a
teenager at Richard Montgomery High School in Rockville.

Just before his trip, he says, immigration officials approved his reentry
permit.

But when Trang returned to Dulles International Airport in February 2003, he was
handcuffed. The Gaithersburg businessman, 28, has been sitting in a jail cell
ever since.

Government lawyers, through numerous court appearances and filed appeals, have
been trying to send him back to Vietnam -- a country that has no deportation
agreement with the United States -- or to a third country that agrees to accept
him. The U.S. government and Trang's attorneys filed briefs Dec. 27 before the
U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals. If Trang wins this appeal, which could take
months to decide, the case is over. If he doesn't, the case will go back to the
immigration courts.

"I thought I was through with my case,"  Trang said in a recent interview at the
St. Mary's County Detention Center in Leonardtown.  "I didn't do anything, but
I'm in jail."

Trang, who immigrated to the United States with his large extended family when
he was 13, is among an increasing number of longtime U.S. residents caught up in
an immigration system that the government says is part of a tougher security
stance but critics say is confusing and keeps people languishing in jail for
years.

"Any vulnerability in our immigration system represents a vulnerability to our
national security," said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security. "We will
aggressively enforce those laws."

Immigration lawyers say that the laws unfairly punish immigrants if they make a
simple mistake -- in Trang's case, leaving the country when he thought his legal
matter was finished. They say the aggressive enforcement actions are misdirected
because the targets are often people who aren't a threat to American security.

"These cases are deeply shocking for many immigrants who think of America as a
land of justice," said Nancy Morawetz, a New York University law professor who
specializes in deportation cases. "It's unbelievable that this kind of thing
happens, but it does happen, and it happens all the time."

Trang's troubles began when he applied for citizenship in 1998. In 1996,
Congress passed a law that allows the United States to deport noncitizens --
including those with green cards -- if they have had criminal convictions and
sentences of one year or more. Government statistics show nearly 9,800
immigrants with green cards were deported in fiscal year 2004.

Trang had been convicted of assault in 1995 for beating up another teenager with
a stick during a fight and served two years of probation, but immigration law
can be applied retroactively. "He continued to be an aggravated felon," Knocke
said, referring to the law's interpretation.

Sennie Trang, his sister, and Mary Ann Berlin, his attorney, say the most
frustrating aspect of his case is that he has come close to being released a few
times.

In May, an immigration judge ordered that he be released on a $6,500 bond, but
government lawyers filed an appeal asking that Trang be kept in detention. They
said he had already left the country for Vietnam while he had been under
deportation orders.

In August, an immigration judge ruled that Trang was no longer removable as an
"aggravated felon" because the Montgomery County courts had modified his
sentence for the assault conviction so it no longer qualified as an aggravated
felony. The government filed another appeal three days later.

In October, Trang was accepted into a program that would allow him to serve his
detention at home, through electronic monitoring. But just as detention officers
drove him from the jail, they received a call saying that a mistake had been
made, according to Trang and a detention officer. He was taken back to jail.

"It's just horrible," Berlin said. "You leave a courtroom, and you've won your
case . . . and little that you know that within the next 30 days, the government
has taken an appeal."

Sennie Trang said the family has spent more than $30,000 on legal bills. The
mall kiosks that her brother operated have been closed and put up for sale.

In the past few years, Sennie Trang said, nearly all of their relatives in the
United States have been able to become naturalized citizens. One of their
nephews served a tour of duty recently in Iraq with the Army's 101st Airborne.

Hung Trang said that if he gets out of prison, he will never leave the country
or even go far from his Gaithersburg home, which he shares with his  parents.

"I just want to go home and go to work," Trang said. "I'm scared they will get
me again."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              44 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 25, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Social Security Changes, Tax Cuts Among GOP Senators' 10 Priorities;
Gay-Marriage Ban Does Not Make List

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 628 words


Senate Republican leaders outlined their 10 top legislative priorities
yesterday, focusing mainly on cutting taxes and restructuring  Social Security.
But two notable omissions -- changes to immigration laws and a ban on same-sex
marriage -- underscored tensions with their conservative wing.

Senate Democrats announced their own priorities, including increases in military
personnel, the minimum wage and education spending. But with Democrats having
lost seats in both chambers last fall,  the GOP is better positioned to move its
agenda aggressively in the newly formed 109th Congress.

The Senate Republicans' top 10 list calls for adding private accounts to Social
Security, extending President Bush's tax cuts, limiting personal-injury lawsuits
and expanding domestic oil exploration. But GOP Senate leaders moved cautiously
on more contentious issues, including abortion, same-sex marriage and
immigration.

Although their House counterparts are preparing to offer anti-terrorism
legislation that includes broad crackdowns on illegal immigration, Senate
Republicans did not mention immigration in the legislative agenda they outlined
for reporters yesterday. With several Republican senators supporting expanded
guest-worker programs, "we don't have a consensus" in the Senate GOP caucus,
said its third-ranking leader, Sen. Rick Santorum (Pa.).

A proposed constitutional ban on same-sex  marriage -- a priority to many
conservative activists -- also was omitted from the list of bills that will be
numbered S1 through S10, signifying their importance to Republicans. Majority
Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) said the marriage provision  will be designated
Senate Joint Resolution 1, "because it's not a legislative bill, it's a joint
resolution."

In practical terms, the distinction means little. A proposed constitutional
amendment requires a two-thirds majority in both the Senate and the House, and
it  must be ratified by three-fourths of the state legislatures. The proposed
amendment to bar same-sex  marriage, which proponents re-introduced yesterday,
fell far short of the needed House and Senate margins last year, and many
lawmakers say it will fare no better in the new Congress. Frist said the
amendment will reach the Senate floor eventually, although it might be in 2006.

As thousands of marchers outside the Capitol called for an end to legalized
abortion,  Republican leaders offered a more modest proposal. Senate Bill 8
would make it a crime to transport a minor to obtain an abortion in a state
that, unlike her home state, does not require her parents to be notified.

Frist said the GOP agenda "will work towards securing a safer America, a
stronger America, a freer America, a healthier America and a more prosperous
America." Aside from changes to Social Security and tax policies, it would
encourage vaccine production and other responses to a possible biological
attack; steer most class-action lawsuits to federal courts, which often grant
smaller awards than state courts; and encourage greater energy production,
including nuclear energy.

Senate Democrats, in their  Capitol news conference, derided the GOP agenda. The
Republicans' only solution to the nation's challenges, said Minority Whip
Richard J. Durbin (Ill.), is "give people tax cuts. Let them fend for
themselves."

The Democrats' top 10 list includes: allowing prescription drugs to be imported;
creating national standards for federal elections; restoring overtime pay
benefits to workers who lost them under a 2004 labor rules change; adding as
many as  40,000  military troops by 2007; improving veterans' benefits;
increasing Pell Grants and other college tuition subsidies; and increasing
access to family planning services and insurance coverage of birth control
products.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              45 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 27, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Two Cousins Accused Of Immigration Fraud;
Fake Papers Filed to Get Work Visas

BYLINE: Carol D. Leonnig, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T03

LENGTH: 595 words


Federal prosecutors have accused two cousins, a District lawyer and a World Bank
employee from Bangladesh, of operating a wide-ranging plot to fraudulently
obtain employment visas for immigrants hoping to live in the United States
legally.

Tariqul Islam Khan, a project manager at the World Bank, was indicted earlier
this month on charges of money laundering, immigration fraud and conspiracy.

Mohamed Alamgir, a D.C. immigration lawyer who organized the scheme, according
to prosecutors, pleaded guilty last April to conspiracy, immigration fraud and
money laundering.

According to court documents,  Alamgir arranged for immigrants to get work visas
for jobs at places the immigrants never intended to work -- and through
businesses that never intended to hire them.

The pair charged their immigrant clients tens of thousands of dollars for the
service and recruited business owners to help them make the applications look
real, according to charging papers.

Prosecutors say the breadth of the scheme  was disturbing. Many seemingly
legitimate businesses agreed to pretend to want to hire immigrants and attested
to that on federal labor applications, according to the prosecutors. In
exchange, the businesses received a cut of what Alamgir was charging the
immigrants, who either hoped to come to the United States or were already here
illegally.

Khan used his credit union account for depositing and withdrawing funds as part
of the fraud, according to a grand jury indictment returned last week.

"Alamgir's scheme was extensive, as it involved dozens of area employers, of
whom approximately 20 have pleaded guilty, and millions of dollars," said
Kenneth L. Wainstein, U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia. "The
fraudulent aliens were paying anywhere from $10,000 to $35,000 to participate in
Alamgir's scheme to obtain real green cards."

As part of his guilty plea, Alamgir, whose law office was at 1010 Vermont Ave.
NW, identified more than 250 fraudulent applications that he prepared or caused
to be prepared.

Investigators learned much about the scheme from Alamgir's guilty plea, which
was sealed, and he cooperated with them for several months, according to court
records that recently became public.

But prosecutors last month asked a federal judge to revoke the terms of his
release, saying Alamgir had failed to comply with the terms of the agreement.
The reasons for the request were not made public. He is scheduled to be
sentenced Feb. 25.

Alamgir's attorney, Danny Onorato, said he has not been able to learn why
prosecutors think Alamgir violated his agreement. "Mr. Alamgir has always been,
and continues to be, available to prosecutors as a cooperator," he said. Khan's
attorney could not be reached for comment.

Two others, whom prosecutors called co-conspirators, have also been indicted:
Golam Razaul Karim, the owner of Peoples Termite and Pest Control, Shahin
Professional Cleaners and Peoples Waterproofing; and Naureen Moin, an employee
of Peoples Termite and Pest Control. Both were citizens of Bangladesh who had
obtained lawful permanent resident status in the United States. They are charged
with preparing letters that falsely stated they planned to hire certain
immigrants.

U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan is presiding over the case.

Wainstein said such immigration fraud cases have a new importance since the
terrorist attacks on this country.

Alamgir's conduct "compromised the integrity of our nation's labor and
immigration process, which in our post-9/11 era could have grave consequences,"
Wainstein said.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              46 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 15, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

103 Arrested in MS-13 Sweep;
U.S. Crackdown Includes 35 Suspects in Area

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 790 words


Federal immigration officials announced yesterday that they have lodged charges
against 103 reputed members of Mara Salvatrucha  --  one-third of them from the
Washington area  --  in a national sweep aimed at disrupting the fast-growing
gang.

Michael J. Garcia, head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, acknowledged
that the arrests affected only a sliver of Mara Salvatrucha's membership. But he
pledged that many more would be locked up.

"This is the beginning. We will target our resources at the leaders . . . but
we're going after all the members," Garcia said at a D.C. news conference. He
said the initiative, which is being coordinated with police and other law
enforcement agencies, soon will expand to members of other gangs, many of whom
are in the country illegally.

Police and politicians in the Washington area have become alarmed by the growth
of Mara Salvatrucha, known as MS-13. Local officials say it appears to be the
most violent of the Latino gangs that have committed 11 slayings in Northern
Virginia since 2000.

Garcia said the federal government also has become concerned that the group
could be a homeland security risk, noting that it is believed to be involved in
smuggling people into the United States.

The anti-gang initiative, known as Operation Community Shield, focused on the
Washington and Baltimore areas as well as New York, Miami, Los Angeles and
Newark, N.J. Most of the arrests took place over the last three weeks.

Among those arrested were three alleged MS-13 leaders in Hollywood, Calif., Long
Branch, N.J., and Port Washington, N.Y., officials said.

In the Washington area, federal agents brought immigration or customs charges
against 22 alleged MS-13 members from Northern Virginia, three from the District
and 10 from the Maryland suburbs and Baltimore area, officials said.

One of those arrested on an immigration charge is a suspect in a January
shooting in Alexandria that left one teenager dead and two wounded, said Allan
Doody, special agent in charge of the Washington field office of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland Security. The man, a
Salvadoran immigrant, has not been charged in that crime, Doody said.

Some of those targeted by the operation were found at their homes or jobs,
officials said, but several of the area men caught up in the sweep were in jail
on other charges. Authorities said they put immigration "detainers" on them to
ensure that if they are acquitted, they will be turned over for processing as
illegal immigrants.

In Alexandria, U.S. Attorney Paul J. McNulty noted that the Virginia arrests
represent a small fraction of MS-13's membership. "Fairfax County estimated
there are 2,000-plus, so you are talking about a very large population. . . .
But it's an interesting thing to note that they've been able to marshal the
resources to conduct this kind of operation," he said.

Authorities said the initiative was new in targeting MS-13 nationally. But
immigration agents have worked on local gang task forces for years, and Doody
said Immigration and Customs Enforcement has charged 220 alleged gang members in
the District and Virginia with immigration or customs violations in the past
11/2 years. Most were deported, he said.

John Moore, director of the National Youth Gang Center, a research agency funded
by the Department of Justice, said removing gang members from the United States
could temporarily disrupt organizations such as MS-13.

"The question is whether they will stay out of the U.S." or sneak back in, he
said. He added that authorities must supplement such actions with programs to
keep youths from joining gangs.

"The gang situation is just too big to handle through suppression," he said.

MS-13 was formed in Los Angeles in the 1980s by Salvadorans who had fled their
country's brutal civil war. It has spread to numerous U.S. cities and drawn
adherents from other countries. Of the 103 alleged MS-13 members charged in the
current operation, 62 are from El Salvador, with the rest mainly from other
Central American countries or Mexico, officials said.

In recent years, thousands of gang members have been sent back to Central
America as part of an effort by U.S. officials to deport immigrants convicted of
felonies. In their home countries, the gang members have formed MS-13 branches,
which are blamed for spiraling crime.

Police in Honduras and El Salvador said they were delighted with the anti-gang
sweep in the United States announced yesterday.

"It's very important that the police in all the countries join this effort,"
said Pedro Gonzalez, subdirector of national police in El Salvador.

Staff researcher Bart Beeson in Mexico City contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              47 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 15, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

MS-13 Crackdown Nets 35 in Region

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 790 words


Federal immigration officials announced yesterday that they have lodged charges
against 103 reputed members of Mara Salvatrucha  --  one-third of them from the
Washington area  --  in a national sweep aimed at disrupting the fast-growing
gang.

Michael J. Garcia, head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, acknowledged
that the arrests affected only a sliver of Mara Salvatrucha's membership. But he
pledged that many more would be locked up.

"This is the beginning. We will target our resources at the leaders . . . but
we're going after all the members," Garcia said at a D.C. news conference. He
said the initiative, which is being coordinated with police and other law
enforcement agencies, soon will expand to members of other gangs, many of whom
are in the country illegally.

Police and politicians in the Washington area have become alarmed by the growth
of Mara Salvatrucha, known as MS-13. Local officials say it appears to be the
most violent of the Latino gangs that have committed 11 slayings in Northern
Virginia since 2000.

Garcia said the federal government also has become concerned that the group
could be a homeland security risk, noting that it is believed to be involved in
smuggling people into the United States.

The anti-gang initiative, known as Operation Community Shield, focused on the
Washington and Baltimore areas as well as New York, Miami, Los Angeles and
Newark, N.J. Most of the arrests took place over the last three weeks.

Among those arrested were three alleged MS-13 leaders in Hollywood, Calif., Long
Branch, N.J., and Port Washington, N.Y., officials said.

In the Washington area, federal agents brought immigration or customs charges
against 22 alleged MS-13 members from Northern Virginia, three from the District
and 10 from the Maryland suburbs and Baltimore area, officials said.

One of those arrested on an immigration charge is a suspect in a January
shooting in Alexandria that left one teenager dead and two wounded, said Allan
Doody, special agent in charge of the Washington field office of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland Security. The man, a
Salvadoran immigrant, has not been charged in that crime, Doody said.

Some of those targeted by the operation were found at their homes or jobs,
officials said, but several of the area men caught up in the sweep were in jail
on other charges. Authorities said they put immigration "detainers" on them to
ensure that if they are acquitted, they will be turned over for processing as
illegal immigrants.

In Alexandria, U.S. Attorney Paul J. McNulty noted that the Virginia arrests
represent a small fraction of MS-13's membership. "Fairfax County estimated
there are 2,000-plus, so you are talking about a very large population. . . .
But it's an interesting thing to note that they've been able to marshal the
resources to conduct this kind of operation," he said.

Authorities said the initiative was new in targeting MS-13 nationally. But
immigration agents have worked on local gang task forces for years, and Doody
said Immigration and Customs Enforcement has charged 220 alleged gang members in
the District and Virginia with immigration or customs violations in the past
11/2 years. Most were deported, he said.

John Moore, director of the National Youth Gang Center, a research agency funded
by the Department of Justice, said removing gang members from the United States
could temporarily disrupt organizations such as MS-13.

"The question is whether they will stay out of the U.S." or sneak back in, he
said. He added that authorities must supplement such actions with programs to
keep youths from joining gangs.

"The gang situation is just too big to handle through suppression," he said.

MS-13 was formed in Los Angeles in the 1980s by Salvadorans who had fled their
country's brutal civil war. It has spread to numerous U.S. cities and drawn
adherents from other countries. Of the 103 alleged MS-13 members charged in the
current operation, 62 are from El Salvador, with the rest mainly from other
Central American countries or Mexico, officials said.

In recent years, thousands of gang members have been sent back to Central
America as part of an effort by U.S. officials to deport immigrants convicted of
felonies. In their home countries, the gang members have formed MS-13 branches,
which are blamed for spiraling crime.

Police in Honduras and El Salvador said they were delighted with the anti-gang
sweep in the United States announced yesterday.

"It's very important that the police in all the countries join this effort,"
said Pedro Gonzalez, subdirector of national police in El Salvador.

Staff researcher Bart Beeson in Mexico City contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              48 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 18, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Releases Four Iranian Brothers

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 296 words


Four Iranian brothers who were detained for more than three years as national
security risks were released late Wednesday when the government agreed to ease
restrictions on their movements in the Los Angeles area, immigration officials
said yesterday.

The Mirmehdi brothers -- Mohammed, 34, Mohsen, 37, Mojtaba, 41 and Mostafa, 45
--  left the Terminal Island jail near Long Beach, Calif., on Wednesday evening.

"It was bittersweet," their attorney Marc Van Der Hout said. "They lost 31/2
years of their lives because of post-9/11 hysteria."

The brothers were first arrested in 1999 in connection with  lying on
applications for asylum. At the time, federal agents linked them to the
Mujaheddin-e Khalq, or MEK, a terrorist network opposed to the ruling regime in
Iran. They were released the following year, but were arrested again in October
2001 as national security threats.

During their detention, a panel of immigration appeal judges ruled that evidence
linking them to the MEK was invalid, and that they could not be sent to Iran,
where MEK members are allegedly tortured. But the government is still seeking to
deport the Mirmehdis to a third country for the other violations.

The Mirmehdis could have left jail in February when Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) officials offered to release them on the condition that they
sign a pledge not to travel more than 35 miles from home or talk to anyone with
a criminal or terrorist background. They refused, saying the restrictions
infringed on their First Amendment rights.

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said the conditions were amended to keep them in a
three-county area and bar them from political acts, espionage or terrorism as
well as from knowingly associating with anyone involved in those acts.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              49 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Tibetan Nun Is A Fake, U.S. Says;
Woman Accused Of Passport Fraud

BYLINE: Jerry Markon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 869 words


Sonam Chodon won the sympathy of human rights advocates and even a U.S.
congressman because she said she was a Buddhist nun fleeing persecution in her
native China.

Now the government says she was never a nun at all.

Chodon, 31, was indicted last week on charges of passport fraud, document fraud
and perjury. She is expected to turn herself in to federal authorities before
her arraignment in U.S. District Court in Alexandria today.

Federal officials said Chodon, who grew up in a Tibetan village near the foot of
Mount Everest, concocted the nun tale as part of her highly publicized bid to
gain asylum in the United States. She described going to a nunnery in Nepal,
where she shaved her head, burned incense and arose at 5 a.m. to recite prayers.
"I'm just a simple Buddhist nun,'' she told an immigration judge in Arlington in
2003.

In reality, the government says, Chodon is part of a passport fraud ring still
under investigation. Federal investigators do not know why she allegedly faked
being a nun, but they say the case highlights the potential danger posed by
those who may exploit immigration laws, as the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers and
other terrorists have done.

"There is a national security issue here,'' said Michael J. Garcia, assistant
homeland security secretary for immigration and customs enforcement. "Maybe not
in this particular case, but we have a general vulnerability here.''

Chodon's attorney, Richard Beizer, said she would plead not guilty at today's
arraignment. Chodon, who was jailed in Virginia for nearly six months starting
in 2003, could not be located. Federal officials said she is believed to have
been living in New York.

Human rights workers and Tibetan activists fear that the charges may cause the
United States to overlook the suffering of thousands of asylum seekers fleeing
religious persecution in China and political oppression around the world. Chodon
--  who was featured in a front-page article last year in The Washington Post
--  said her family members were tortured for their religious beliefs.

"It would be a great shame if this case undermines the support the American
people give to the Tibetan people as a whole,'' said Kate Saunders, a spokesman
for the D.C.-based International Campaign for Tibet. That organization's
president told The Post last year that he had asked the group's members to urge
Congress to intervene on Chodon's behalf and stop the government from fighting
her request for asylum.

Rep. Rick Boucher (D-Va.) praised the decision last year to release Chodon from
a central Virginia jail, where she had been held since she arrived at Dulles
International Airport from Nepal in 2003. "I'm completely convinced she's
legitimate,'' Boucher said at the time.

Boucher said yesterday that he based his assessment on information provided by
Chodon's attorney at the time and that he had been concerned that a Buddhist nun
would be jailed. He said he never called anyone on Chodon's behalf, and he
declined to comment on the indictment.

The charges are the latest twist in the saga of Chodon's journey to the United
States, which she said began with a desperate eight-day walk to Nepal across
snow-capped mountains. In an interview last year at the Riverside Regional Jail,
Chodon said she was fleeing Chinese authorities, who have long been accused of
persecuting Tibetans for their religious and political beliefs.

Chodon, who goes only by the name Sonam, told a reporter last year that her
father had been jailed in Tibet and tortured with electric shock. She described
hiding from police patrols as she made her way across the Himalayas to Nepal.

The indictment does not address Chodon's tale of torture. But it says that once
in Nepal, Chodon paid money to obtain a false Nepalese passport and then used it
for her trip to the United States in 2003. The same passport had been used at
least five other times to enter the United States, the indictment said.

The indictment, filed March 15, charges Chodon with conspiracy, false use of a
passport, misuse of a passport, immigration document fraud and perjury. Also
charged was Kelsang Gurung, who federal officials said is another member of the
ring believed to be in Nepal. He has not been arrested.

When Chodon arrived at Dulles, federal officials said, immigration inspectors
flagged her passport as having been used before by someone else. She was jailed
for almost six months.

Nevertheless, Chodon's request for asylum in the United States was granted in
November 2003 by Paul Wickham Schmidt, a federal immigration judge in Arlington.

Garcia said having a fraudulent document does not necessarily bar someone from
winning asylum. "Someone who needs to get out of a country with an oppressive
regime grabs a document and flees. That's a sympathetic case,'' he said. "On the
other hand, it raises concerns.''

At a hearing before Schmidt, Chodon said she was first admitted to a Nepalese
nunnery in March 2002. Federal agents traveled to Nepal, went to the nunnery and
showed Chodon's picture, said a federal official who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the information is not in the indictment.

The nunnery had never heard of Chodon, the official said.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              50 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 15, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 485 words


MARYLAND

DUI Plea A Laurel man pleaded guilty yesterday to driving under the influence
and was fined $600 in an accident in which a Maryland state trooper was hit and
killed.

Circuit Court Judge Vincent J. Femia also suspended the driver's license of
Darryl Q. Harris, 43, for a year, said Arthur M. Reynolds Jr., Harris's
attorney.

On May 9, Harris was driving east on Route 50 in Prince George's County near
Freeway Airport when his Volkswagen struck Trooper 1st Class Anthony Jones, 50.
Jones had stopped to remove a tire that was part of the debris from an earlier
accident. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Prince George's prosecutors said they could not charge Harris with a more
serious crime because Maryland does not have a negligent homicide statute.

Fraud Convictions  A federal jury in Greenbelt yesterday convicted an
immigration lawyer and a businessman of filing false  documents that allowed
undocumented immigrants to enter or remain in the United States, interim
Maryland U.S. Attorney Allen F. Loucks said.

The jury convicted immigration lawyer Maqsood Mir, 52, of Potomac and
businessman Mohammad Bajwa, 39, of Herndon, Loucks said. The jury acquitted Mir
and Bajwa of racketeering, and Mir was additionally acquitted of obstruction of
justice.

Mir and Bajwa are to be sentenced July 20.

THE DISTRICT

Bribery Charges A contractor for the D.C. Department of Motor Vehicles who
provided court-ordered alcohol-abuse treatment classes for motorists convicted
of drunken driving has been charged  after an FBI sting with taking thousands of
dollars in bribes, authorities announced yesterday.

Willie  C. Anderson Jr., 57, of Accokeek was charged in U.S. District Court in
Washington with taking bribes from people in exchange for a document showing
they had attended the classes, according to a court affidavit. The document was
needed to apply for reinstatement of the license.

Anderson could not be reached for comment last night.

VIRGINIA

Bodies Found Prince William County police are investigating the deaths of two
people whose bodies were found yesterday in a Manassas area home, police said.

The bodies of a man and woman were found in the 10100 block of Lomond Drive
about 3:45 p.m., said Sgt. Kim Chinn, a police spokeswoman. Co-workers went to
the home after the woman, a bus driver for Prince William schools, failed to
make her afternoon bus rounds, Chinn said. She added that the deaths appeared to
be a murder-suicide.

Police would not say where the bodies were found, how old the man and woman were
or how they were killed. Their names were withheld pending notification of
relatives.

Naomi Grayson, a friend of the dead woman, said the woman had recently taken her
two daughters to Walt Disney World and was making plans for a return trip. "She
was a nice girl, she really was," Grayson said. "This is so sad."

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              51 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 19, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

What Immigration Reform Needs to Fix, and Avoid

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 422 words


An April 12 editorial calling for comprehensive immigration reform reinforced
the misperception that waiver authority granted under Section 102 of the  Real
ID Act would  pertain only to environmental laws that  affect the building of a
fence along the California border.

That section would give the secretary of homeland security blanket authority to
ignore all federal, state and local laws  --  at his  discretion and without
judicial review  --  that he determines would interfere with the construction of
barriers and roads along our borders. No federal agency or official  has ever
been provided with such a blanket exemption from judicial review and the rule of
law.

The Post is correct in saying that the only way to achieve comprehensive
immigration reform is to address the problems with our immigration system
head-on. Unfortunately, the Real ID Act is a poorly conceived proposal that
ignores basic American values of fairness and decency and undermines the rule of
law. Congress needs to start over.

RALPH G. NEAS

President

People for the American Way

Washington

*

By reporting only the choice between raising the visa quota for foreign tech
workers  and outsourcing the work to India [Business, April 8], S. Mitra Kalita
added to the "confusion"  over H-1B  visas. Her story ignored the concerns of
U.S.  workers. In both "choices," an American worker with a college education is
deprived of the opportunity to work or enter the field, and U.S. capital heads
overseas.

Importing  workers in large numbers fuels a race to the bottom for  U.S. workers
and  employers. The H-1B program has no displacement protections for U.S.
workers.

Most functions performed by professional and skilled tech workers  cannot be
efficiently  outsourced to India. However, India can boost its competitiveness
and balance of trade by shipping tech workers to this country to acquire U.S.
expertise at rock-bottom wages. The H-1B program has accelerated the transfer of
competitive technology to India and China. The diversion of domestic and foreign
investment in workforce development and technological innovation has followed.

If H-1B visas were eliminated, companies operating in the United States would
have to train and hire many more expensively educated Americans. By treating
U.S. workers as a commodity rather than as essential domestic intellectual
capital, Congress only worsens our unsustainable international trade deficit.

MICHAEL M. HETHMON

Staff Counsel

Federation for American Immigration Reform

Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              52 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 23, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

For Immigrants, Help Can Be Risky;
Maryland Lawmakers Move to Rein In Consultants Who Overreach and Sometimes Get
Clients Deported

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 1017 words


Mariana C. Cordier, president of the Maryland Hispanic Bar Association, has
heard an increasing number of complaints over the past year from people who say
their immigration applications were botched by consultants.

"The demographics have changed so much that you start to see these things
happening more and more," said Cordier, a Rockville attorney. The growing number
of Hispanics in the area has given rise to a number of immigration consultants,
she said.

Consultants say they provide a useful service, because they understand the
immigration application requirements and charge less than lawyers to help with
the paperwork. But Cordier said that in some cases, immigration consultants have
failed to file the correct papers, causing their clients to be deported.

The Maryland General Assembly this month passed legislation that would give
people who use immigration consultants more protection. California, Washington,
New Mexico and a handful of other states already have laws that  regulate
immigration consultants, but the District and Virginia do not, according to the
National Consumer Law Center.

The Maryland legislation, known as the Immigration Consulting Services Act,
awaits  Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr.'s signature. The bill's lead sponsor, Del.
Kathleen M. Dumais (D-Montgomery), said she expects him to sign it in the next
few weeks. Even if he  vetoes it, she said, the act has enough support to
override a  veto. It passed the House 121 to 5 and the Senate unanimously.

The legislation curbs the services immigration consultants are allowed to
perform and the claims they may  make. Penalties include a fine of up to $1,000
or a year in prison. Victims also have the right to sue to recoup the money they
paid to the immigration consultant and to collect damages.

Dumais said she has heard from a wide range of immigrant communities that have
been affected by consultants, including people from Latin America, Vietnam and
Africa.

Some immigration consultants say they welcome the oversight. Patrick Tzeuton, an
attorney and the owner of Immigration Consultants Inc.  in Silver Spring, said
his company caters to people who have recently moved to the area from Cameroon,
in West Africa. Services are offered mostly in French. Two lawyers work in the
office  with four immigration consultants who  file forms for visa extensions or
work documents.

Many immigrants like to use the consultants because they are cheaper than
lawyers, said Tzeuton. "It is no different than going to a pharmacist or a nurse
instead of a doctor."

Vincent Rosario, an accountant, notary and consultant, said he is careful  how
he advises people who come to him for help with  immigration applications.
Rosario runs his business, Crusa Servicios Latinos, from his  home in the
District and also works from an office in Sterling. He charges customers  $75 to
$100 to help them complete an application for a temporary visa to bring a
relative to the United States.  If a customer has more complicated issues or
wants a work visa, he said he refers them to a lawyer.

"I don't play with that. I don't give legal advice," said Rosario, who
emigrated from the Dominican Republic 20 years ago. "If I do give advice, I let
them know that it is not official."

Some immigrant advocates and lawyers said other consultants do more. Immigration
consultants are a particular problem among the Spanish-speaking population
because of the use of the Spanish word notario, said Kimberly Propeack, director
of advocacy at Casa de Maryland, a Takoma Park nonprofit that works with Latino
immigrants.

Many immigration consultants are notaries, and in some parts of Latin America a
notario may conduct certain legal proceedings. In the United States, notary
publics only administer oaths and attest to the authenticity of signatures.
Sometimes notarios here say they can provide legal advice and help prepare
immigration forms.

"This is one of the biggest legal issues in our community," Propeack said. "They
are really quite blatant."

Jayesh Rathod, a staff attorney at Casa de Maryland who is working on  three
cases of immigration applications that were fouled up by consultants, said he
thinks the new law will have a  deterrent effect. "Up to now, I've seen almost
nothing done about such problems," he added.

Rathod  is trying to help Carlos Gomez, who moved to Alexandria from El
Salvador, get  a work permit. Gomez paid an immigration consultant in Falls
Church $30 to fill out his visa application. When U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services sent him a card requesting more information, he took it to
the consultant, whose name he no longer remembers.

"She told me they were crazy and that I didn't have to send in the information,"
Gomez said in Spanish. "I trusted her, and then I got another card saying they
had denied me."

Other immigrants testified about their problems before Maryland legislators
during the bill's hearings. Amy Nunez, a Mexican immigrant who lives in
Frederick, told legislators that her husband, who came to Maryland without legal
documents, was deported to Mexico after they enlisted the help of an immigration
consultant who took $3,000 from them and fled, according to Cordier.

The recently passed bill would force immigration consultants to return any
documents that a customer gives them. In some instances, consultants have
refused to provide copies of the paperwork they claim to have filed with U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, some lawyers said.

The bill also makes it illegal to advertise that a notary license allows a
person to provide legal advice and requires that immigration consultants provide
a contract in both English and the customer's native language before working on
the customer's behalf. It also prevents consultants from saying  they can obtain
special favors from U.S. immigration agencies and from collecting money from
clients before they perform any services. Immigration consultants must also post
signs in their offices stating that the consultant is not a licensed attorney
and cannot give legal advice or services.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              53 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bishops Change Tactics on Immigrants;
Catholic Campaign Seeks Lay Backing

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 670 words


U.S. Catholic bishops launched a campaign yesterday to change the country's
immigration system, saying they would reach into the pews to build support for
proposals that would grant residence to millions of people here illegally.

"Our immigration system is badly broken and needs repair," said Cardinal
Theodore E. McCarrick, archbishop of Washington, speaking at a news conference
announcing the campaign.

McCarrick also said that the U.S. bishops were disturbed by a growing
"anti-immigrant fervor" since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which he
said was expressed in TV and radio shows and in more restrictive immigration
laws.

"Before we can change our laws, we must change attitudes, including those of
many of our own flock," he said.

Catholics make up about one-quarter of the U.S. population. Officials with the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops said the campaign is aimed at the roughly 30
percent of U.S. Catholics who do not have strong opinions about immigration.  An
additional 25 percent to 30 percent are likely to share the church's views on
immigration policy, while the rest are firmly opposed, officials said.

Yesterday's announcement appeared to reflect a shift in tactics for the Catholic
Church. For years, its leaders have supported proposals to give legal status to
undocumented workers but the new campaign focuses on the grass roots by, for
example, providing outlines of sermons to priests and enlisting Catholic lay
groups to promote the church's message, officials said.

"Every diocese, hopefully, will have its own program," said McCarrick, who is a
consultant to the bishops' committee on migration.

What effect those programs will have is unclear. Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which is critical of U.S.
immigration levels, said he doubted many Catholics would be swayed.

"When the political climate changes for other reasons, as it's now doing because
of concerns for security, the law will change, and there's really not that much
the Catholic bishops can do about that," he said.

He added that it was "unseemly" that the bishops were announcing their program
just days before Sens. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) are
expected to introduce sweeping immigration legislation, including a guest-worker
program.

The bishops' statement "is clearly coordinated with this week's release of the
Kennedy-McCain bill," Krikorian said.

Mark Franken, executive director of Migration and Refugee Services for the
bishops conference, denied any such coordination, saying the church initiative
had been in the works since last summer.

President Bush has urged Congress to establish a guest-worker program that would
absorb at least some of the country's 8 million or more illegal immigrants. But
many Republican legislators have resisted, believing it would reward people
working without authorization.

The bishops' campaign reflects the dramatic change wrought in the U.S. Catholic
Church by decades of high immigration levels. The church is about 40 percent
Latino, including both immigrants and U.S.-born citizens. About 300,000
Catholics immigrate legally to the United States every year, according to the
bishops conference. Tens of thousands of others move to the country illegally.

McCarrick said priests and Catholic organizations  are being asked for help
constantly by immigrants who lack legal status or who have been separated from
their families for years because of delays in processing immigration
applications.

"Our people have these problems every day," he said.

McCarrick, when asked about his view of Bush's immigration proposal, said that
it provided workers with a route toward legalization but "doesn't go far enough"
to help families divided because of immigration problems.

Asked whether it was realistic to think the church would succeed at a time when
many Americans are wary of high immigration levels, McCarrick smiled. "Hay que
soñar," he said in Spanish. You have to dream.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              54 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 13, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

2 Lawyers Charged In Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 440 words


Federal agents arrested two lawyers and searched their downtown D.C. law firms
yesterday, accusing them of preparing phony employment documents that allowed
scores of people to immigrate to the United States, officials said.

Irwin Jay Fredman, 72, of Bethesda and Sergei Danilov, 44, of McLean were
charged with committing immigration fraud over a four-year period that allowed
at least 149 people to gain U.S. residency, according to an indictment unsealed
yesterday in federal court in Baltimore.

Two legal assistants who worked with them also were charged.

According to the indictment, the legal team filled out forms stating that the
immigrants were being sponsored by businesses in Prince George's and Montgomery
counties, including an employment agency, a construction company and a Pizza
Boli's.

In fact, the owners of those businesses had no idea the documents were being
filed, according to the indictment.

Most of the immigrants who benefited from the alleged fraud were from Pakistan,
Turkey, Russia and the Philippines, according to Dean Boyd, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The lawyers charged them as much as $22,000
each.

"There are more  --  potentially lots more" people who gained U.S. residency
through the alleged fraud, Boyd said.

Immigration agents raided Fredman's office at 2120 L St. NW yesterday, officials
said. A worker there, who would not identify herself, declined to comment on the
case when a reporter telephoned. There was no answer at Danilov's office at 900
19th St. NW, which also was raided.

Two of those charged were immigrants  and could be deported if found guilty.
They are Danilov, a Russian national, and legal assistant Elnur Veliev, 21, an
Azerbaijani national living in Silver Spring, according to a statement from  the
immigration agency. Both are permanent residents. Fredman and the other legal
assistant, Alp Canseven, 30, of the District, are U.S. citizens.

The charges involve a process in which American businesses can sponsor
foreigners to immigrate. Under that process, an employer will typically certify
that the immigrant is needed to fill a certain job because no U.S. residents are
available. The certification process is handled by state labor agencies and then
the federal Department of Labor.

Authorities in the D.C. area have cracked down recently on a number of lawyers
thought to be abusing that system. Two years ago, a federal judge in Virginia
sentenced an Arlington immigration lawyer, Samuel G. Kooritzky, to 10 years in
prison for a fraud involving hundreds of immigrants.

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              55 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Rare Gift

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 318 words


The legal profession lost a giant with the death of Lloyd Cutler [front page,
May 9].

In the late 1980s I was the judge in Ayuda Inc. v. the United States,  which
involved the government's implementation of certain provisions of the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The law included an amnesty
provision that allowed certain immigrants to remain in the United States if
their illegal status was "known to the government." The immigration service by
regulation limited the term to mean known to "the Immigration and Naturalization
Service." This meant that if other branches of government, such as the Internal
Revenue Service, knew of an immigrant's illegal status that did not count.
Hundreds of thousands of individuals were adversely affected by this strained
interpretation of the law.

I ruled against the government and nullified the regulation. I also appointed a
special master to handle certain future phases of the case. The government said
I had exceeded my jurisdiction and, because it had no direct appeal rights,
sought to have my decision reviewed through the writ of mandamus. In such a
proceeding, the judge is the respondent and must defend his action.

I wanted Lloyd Cutler to represent me. Although he was probably the most
sought-after lawyer in the country, he agreed to take my case once he learned
what was at stake. His great legal skills carried the day, and I and the many
deserving plaintiffs were rewarded with a just result.

The government doesn't often lose a high-profile case. Moreover, a lawyer with a
reputation for being able to deal with the government on behalf of high-profile
clients doesn't often want to take on the government as Lloyd Cutler did in my
case.

In an age of legal specialization, Lloyd Cutler took on all kinds of cases. He
was a decent, brilliant and principled individual whose like has become a
rarity.

STANLEY SPORKIN

Washington

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              56 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 6, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Police Back Off Immigration Enforcement;
Other Legislation, Fear of Abuse Cited

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1243 words


The Virginia State Police have backed off a plan that would have allowed some
officers to make immigration arrests, a prospect that had been fiercely opposed
by immigrant  rights advocates.

The state police chief, Col. Steve Flaherty, said last week  that his department
has decided against proceeding with an agreement with federal authorities that
would have made Virginia the third state in the nation to adopt such a practice.

"We're not moving forward with it at this particular point in time," he said in
an interview.

The idea of involving police in immigration enforcement has attracted growing
interest since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which were carried out by
19 foreigners, three of them in the country illegally. Florida and Alabama have
signed agreements with the Department of Homeland Security under which dozens of
their police officers have been authorized to make immigration arrests,
typically a federal responsibility.

"We have municipalities and states approach us all the time and inquire about
it," said Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
which is part of Homeland Security.

But several localities that expressed interest in the idea have ultimately
abandoned it because of a lack of resources or opposition from immigrant groups
worried about ethnic profiling. Even police have been split over whether it
makes sense.

Virginia offers an example of the sensitivity surrounding the issue: While state
police were negotiating their agreement last year with Homeland Security
officials, the Virginia legislature passed a bill giving local and state police
slightly more power to enforce immigration law.

Immigrants panicked,  despite the fact that the Virginia law was very narrowly
drawn. It allowed police to arrest only convicted felons who had re-entered the
country illegally after being deported.

"It created a huge problem for us when the law was first passed," said Col. Rick
Rappoport, police chief in the city of Fairfax. Rumors swept through ethnic
communities that anyone lacking proper documents could be picked up, prompting
some immigrants to stop dealing with law enforcement authorities. A few even hid
at home and hoarded food, police said.

Immigrant advocacy groups in Virginia expressed alarm about the potential for
misuse of the new law and pressed state police not to seek further immigration
authority.

"A number of the police we met with realized if they want immigrants to report
crimes and be witnesses, they can't be in fear of being arrested," said Deborah
Sanders, executive director of the Capital Area Immigrants' Rights Coalition.

Flaherty, the state police chief, said he was sensitive to the immigrant groups'
concerns. But putting on hold the federal agreement, which would have given the
extra authority to at least two dozen of his officers, was "more of a practical
decision," he said. He said authorities determined that the new Virginia law
covered the kinds of immigrants that state police were worried about  --  such
as drug traffickers or gang members.

"We were really talking about being able to deal with the worst of the worst.
That's the way HB 570 was framed," Flaherty said, referring to the state law by
its legislative number.

However, nearly a year after it took effect, the state law appears to have been
used rarely, if at all. Officials with nine police and sheriff's departments in
Northern Virginia, home to the majority of the state's immigrants, said in
interviews that they were not aware of a single arrest made using the additional
authority.

"I think it's a useful tool, but the circumstances in which it can be used are
so narrow that I think it's very unlikely the average patrol officer is going to
encounter a situation that meets the criteria," Rappoport said.

Traditionally, local and state police could arrest immigrants for criminal
offenses but not for civil immigration violations. Under a 1996 law, however,
federal authorities can train police from state or local jurisdictions to
enforce immigration law while carrying out other duties.

With the number of illegal immigrants soaring to an estimated 10 million, some
officials think that local or state police should be enlisted to help the
several thousand overwhelmed ICE agents who enforce immigration law.

"The federal government has completely dropped the ball," said Del. David B.
Albo (R-Fairfax), who complained that illegal immigrants are a financial drain
on such areas as Northern Virginia because they use taxpayer-funded schools and
hospitals. "What we need to do is take control of this."

Albo sponsored last year's House measure to grant slightly more immigration
authority to local and state police. He is currently drawing up more ambitious
legislation that would make it a violation of Virginia law for illegal
immigrants to even be in the state. Under his proposal, he said, police could
file this charge only against immigrants already accused of other crimes.

Federal legislators are also moving to enlist more local police in the detention
of illegal immigrants. Last month, the House passed an amendment stating that
local and state police have "inherent authority" to enforce immigration laws,
even without an agreement with Homeland Security. The Senate has not acted on
the measure.

"Our ICE agents are wonderful but simply do not have the physical ability to be
in every place to work on enforcement," said Rep. Lynn A. Westmoreland (R-Ga.)
during the debate on the amendment.

But several localities across the country have run into difficulties when they
tried to gain an expanded immigration role for police.

Last November, for example, Steve Levy, executive of Suffolk County on New
York's Long Island, withdrew a proposal to get police certified to enforce
immigration law after the idea was attacked by legislators, Latino groups and
even the local Police Benevolent Association.

The mayor of Danbury, Conn., also recently proposed setting up such a program
for state police. But Richard Blumenthal, state attorney general, opposes the
idea, which would need approval from the Connecticut legislature.

Some police say they simply don't have the resources to be part of the federal
program, which typically requires officers to undergo five weeks of ICE training
in immigration and civil rights law  --  and with the police picking up some of
the tab.

"I don't know many state police or highway patrols who can give up people for
five weeks," said Gary Adams, chief of the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, who said he
had been briefed on the program but decided against pursuing it.

Even those states and counties considering joining the federal program said they
envision using the added authority in limited cases.

"We don't want to become federal immigration officers," said Jon Fleischman, a
spokesman for the Orange County, Calif., sheriff's department, which is
considering training some officers in immigration law.

Several of the police and sheriff's departments in Northern Virginia said they
were not interested in gaining the additional authority.

"We're not advocating, supporting or facilitating illegal immigration," said
Dave Rohrer, chief of the Fairfax County police.

But, he added: "Our job is to protect people. And I'm concerned that people who
are victims of a crime, whether citizens or not, are not calling us because
they're afraid we're going to check [legal] status only."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              57 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 13, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Law as Anti-Terrorism Tool

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 2591 words


Second of two articles

Soul Khalil woke with a start. Her split-level home in Burke was shuddering, and
the oppressive hum of a helicopter filled the room. Then she heard the pounding
on the front door. "Police!" the voices yelled. She shook her  husband. "Hassan!
You hear that banging?" she later recalled saying.

Her husband, in his shorts, stumbled into the hallway. At the end of it was a
masked agent, his gun drawn. "Get down!" he yelled, according to the husband's
recollection. The Lebanese immigrant dropped onto his stomach, and the officers
cuffed his hands behind his back.

The charge: lying on his immigration documents.

Authorities rarely go to such lengths to snare an immigrant accused of fraud.
The dawn raid last month was carried out by Homeland Security and FBI agents
from a local Joint Terrorism Task Force, working with a SWAT-style team  --
dispatched because federal officials had information that Khalil, 36, had had
weapons training.

Khalil's arrest is part of a broad anti-terrorism effort being waged with a
seemingly innocuous weapon: immigration law. In the past two years, officials
have filed immigration charges against more than 500 people   who have come
under scrutiny in national security investigations, according to previously
undisclosed government figures. Some are ultimately found to have no terrorism
ties, officials acknowledge.

Whereas terrorism charges can be difficult to prosecute, Homeland Security
officials say immigration laws can provide a quick, easy way to detain people
who could be planning attacks. Authorities have also used routine charges such
as  overstaying a visa to deport suspected supporters of terrorist groups.

"It's an incredibly important piece of the terrorism response," said Michael J.
Garcia, who heads Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or
ICE. And although  immigration violations might seem humdrum, he said, "They're
legitimate charges."

Muslim and civil liberties activists disagree. They argue that authorities are
enforcing minor violations by Muslims and Arabs, while ignoring millions of
other immigrants who flout the same laws.

They note that many of those charged are not   shown to be involved in
terrorism, including Khalil, a cellular-telephone technician who was freed by a
judge pending his immigration trial and denies any  connection to terrorism.
Federal officials said they could not discuss any national security aspects of
the case because it involves  an ongoing investigation.

"The approach is basically to target the Muslim and Arab community with a kind
of zero-tolerance immigration policy. No other community in the U.S. is treated
to zero-tolerance enforcement," said David Cole, a Georgetown University law
professor and critic of the government's anti-terrorism policies.

Before the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, immigration agents were minor players in the
world of counterterrorism. That changed during the investigation of the
hijackings, when 768 suspects were secretly processed on immigration charges.
Most were deported after being cleared of  connections to terrorism.

Unlike that controversial roundup, most of the recent arrests have not  involved
secret proceedings. Still, they can be hard to track.  A few cases have turned
into high-profile criminal trials, but others have centered on little-known
individuals processed in obscure immigration courts, with no mention of a
terrorism investigation.

In some cases, the government ultimately concludes that a suspect, while perhaps
guilty of an immigration violation, has no terrorism ties at all.

Authorities are often reluctant to disclose why an immigrant's name emerged in a
national security investigation, because the information is classified or is
part of a continuing probe. Homeland Security officials turned down a request by
The Washington Post for the names of all those charged in the past two years,
making it difficult to assess how effective their strategy has been at thwarting
terrorism.

But a  post-Sept. 11  aggressiveness is evident in dozens of immigration cases
described by federal officials, defense lawyers and news accounts. For example,
authorities have taken the unusual step of stripping some immigrants' U.S.
citizenship. Officials are also using immigration charges to pressure people to
provide information on Muslim organizations, several attorneys said.

This is an anti-terrorism effort  fought largely behind the scenes, in the murky
world of intelligence and informers, often barely visible in the court files of
those charged.

Consider the case of Waheeda Tehseen.

Tehseen was a Pakistani graduate student when she  immigrated in 1988 after
spending a childhood in poverty near the Afghan border. Over the years, she
acquired the trappings of a successful American life: a PhD in toxicology, a
four-bedroom house  in Fairfax Station and a $90,000-a-year job at the
Environmental Protection Agency. The EPA even presented Tehseen its "Unsung
Hero" award for her volunteer work overseas with Afghan refugees.

But on Feb. 2, 2004, her success story abruptly ended.

Tehseen, then 46, was arrested and accused of lying on her naturalization
application in 2001. The violation centered on one question: Have you ever
claimed to be a U.S. citizen? No, Tehseen had checked. In fact, in 1998, she had
accepted a job in EPA's pesticide division  --  a position she knew was open
only to U.S.  citizens.

"I just had to have the job for my children," a weeping Tehseen said in an
interview last year, explaining that she had been supporting three daughters and
a son. She considered it "the tiniest error"; she had been a legal resident, and
would  become a citizen in 2002.

Authorities considered it part of a pattern of deception. They noted that
Tehseen had also listed a phony employer, instead of the EPA, on her application
in an apparent effort to disguise the lie.

The violations would probably never have been caught, but Tehseen came under
scrutiny in a terrorism-related investigation. She said the probe apparently
involved an orphanage she opened in April 2003 on the Pakistani-Afghan border,
using funds from a Missouri-based group, the Islamic American Relief Agency.

Tehseen said the group had seemed to be a legitimate charity. But last October,
the  Treasury Department accused the  agency's overseas branches of helping fund
Osama bin Laden.

Several of Tehseen's colleagues defended her assertion that she was interested
in charity, not Islamic radicalism. Federal prosecutors, however, apparently
believed Tehseen could provide information. She said federal agents questioned
her about the Islamic charity, the Taliban and  al Qaeda, and authorities
offered to go easy on her immigration-fraud charge if she became an informant.

Federal officials declined to comment on that investigation, saying the
information is  classified. An official close to the case, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity, confirmed that a deal was discussed but provided no
details.

Tehseen declined the offer because, she said, "I'm not an FBI person who can go
and sneak in and find out who's right and wrong." She was deported last August
and is  working on environmental projects in Pakistan.

Muslim activists say cases such as  Tehseen's show that the government is
scouring the immigration papers of Arabs and Muslims it considers suspicious.

"They see people they want to get, [and] they look in their records until they
find something they can get them on," said Arsalan Iftikhar, legal director of
the Council on American-Islamic Relations.

Homeland Security officials say they are not  focusing on any ethnic or
religious group.

"We're targeting people who our investigation shows are involved in some type of
activity" that could jeopardize national security, Garcia said.

ICE officials say they have  used immigration laws to take dangerous people off
the streets. For example, Nuradin Abdi, a Somali immigrant living in Ohio, was
locked up on an asylum-fraud charge in November 2003. He  was subsequently
charged with plotting with an al Qaeda member to blow up a shopping mall. He has
pleaded not guilty.

ICE officials also point to cases in which they have deported active supporters
of terrorist groups, including at least two men who had attended guerrilla
training camps in Pakistan.

All cases with a terrorism connection are handled through the FBI-led Joint
Terrorism Task Forces, ICE officials said.

Authorities say they sometimes turn to immigration charges rather than terrorism
charges because a case might be  based on classified information that they
cannot  reveal in court without damaging other investigations. Sometimes they
face other legal barriers.

For example, ICE agents alleged in federal court in Alexandria that investor
Soliman S. Biheiri had done business through the mid-1990s with a leader of the
Islamic Resistance Movement, or  Hamas, which is on the U.S. terrorism list. But
the statute of limitations had expired.

Prosecutors instead charged Biheiri with putting false information on his
citizenship application. Biheiri, an  Egyptian immigrant,  has denied any
improper dealings with Hamas. He was convicted and was sentenced to a year in
jail, and is to be deported soon.

Homeland Security officials say immigration charges are being used much as they
have been for years against drug traffickers  --  as a tool to lock up suspects,
gain informants and obtain search warrants. But some legal experts caution it
can be harder to identify a terrorist than a narcotics kingpin.

"So much of national security threat analysis is guesswork," said Bo Cooper, who
was general counsel of the now-defunct Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Authorities will often have worrisome information "but not nearly enough to
prove this person is a terrorist. . . . So whether it's legitimate depends on
whether the person appears to be a risk, and whether he indeed violated
immigration laws."

Some say the new focus in the immigration bureaucracy is long overdue. Bill
West, a Miami-based immigration agent who handled national security cases in the
1990s, recalled urging the agency's leaders to make counterterrorism  a higher
priority. "It all fell on deaf ears," said West, who is  retired.

Before the Sept. 11  attacks, there were only 50 immigration agents on Joint
Terrorism Task Forces across the country, according to the Sept. 11
commission, which has criticized the immigration service for being slow to
embrace a role in counterterrorism.

Today, the task forces include more than 200 such agents, who report to a
bustling ICE Counterterrorism Section in downtown Washington. Since ICE was
founded in March 2003, more than 500 people have been charged with immigration
violations  --  either in criminal or immigration courts  --   after an initial
report linking them to a terrorism or homeland security threat, according to an
agency spokesman, Dean Boyd.

Some of the immigrants  faced other criminal charges. Boyd  emphasized that some
immigrants were  found to have no connection to terrorism.

Boyd provided the estimated total after The Post filed a Freedom of Information
Act request for the number of cases and the immigrants' names and countries of
origin. The agency denied the request, saying the data had not been compiled in
any existing documents.

Among those accused of immigration fraud are at least 10 naturalized Americans,
according to a tally by The Post based on court records, ICE documents and news
reports. Khalil is among them. According to the charges, he failed to
acknowledge in his 1999 naturalization application that he had been arrested and
ordered out of the United States eight years earlier for overstaying his student
visa.

Khalil disputes the accusation. He said he obtained a document in the early
1990s shielding him from deportation because of the war raging in Lebanon. He
married his wife, a U.S. citizen, in 1994 and became a legal resident.

But the case is about more than a 14-year-old deportation issue.

Khalil said he was visited over a year ago by FBI agents who asked whether he
knew of any threats to the United States and whether he had ties to Hezbollah,
or Party of God, the armed Shiite Muslim movement that the U.S. government
considers a terrorist group.

Khalil said he knew no members of Hezbollah  in the United States but did in
south Lebanon, where it is now a major political party. Agents asked him again
during his arrest last month whether he knew of anyone intending harm to this
country, he said.

"If I tell you I know nobody involved in Hezbollah, I'm a liar. It would be like
saying I live in D.C. and never see a black person," Khalil said in an
interview. He said he acknowledged to the agents that he had learned to use arms
in Lebanon during the war, which he said was common.

Khalil added that he has been told several times in U.S. airports that his name
is on a "no-fly" list, but that he has always  been cleared to board.

Boyd, the ICE spokesman, said he could not comment on any national security
aspects of the case. He said authorities used the helicopter and SWAT-style team
because Khalil had had weapons and martial-arts training. "We have to be safe,"
he said.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa C. Buchanan released Khalil pending his trial,
stating that the immigration charge appeared "rather weak."

Although Khalil was charged in criminal court, many others are tried in the
immigration court system, which is part of the Justice Department. Immigration
lawyers have raised concerns about using such courts in terrorism-related cases,
because they provide fewer legal protections for the accused. For example, those
charged do not have the right to an attorney, and they may be detained even
after a judge has ordered them freed on bond.

"There's no key to the jailhouse door when Immigration's got you," said Malea
Kiblan, an immigration lawyer in Northern Virginia.

That was the complaint of one of her clients, Ibrahim Abdullah, who was charged
last year with violating his student visa by holding a job. The arrest was part
of an investigation by the local terrorism task force.

Law enforcement officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said they had
a strong immigration case against Abdullah, a Saudi PhD student at George Mason
University. They said he had received checks for thousands of dollars from the
World Assembly of Muslim Youth, or WAMY, whose Falls Church office was founded
by a relative of bin Laden's. The group has been under scrutiny for possible
terrorism ties, officials say, although there has been no allegation of a crime.
The group denies any such link.

Abdullah said that the money was reimbursement for supplies he had bought,  and
that he was simply a volunteer. He insisted he had no need to work, because he
had a scholarship and a $3,000-a-month stipend from the Saudi government.

Immigration prosecutors indicated they would oppose bond for Abdullah, Kiblan
said. That meant he could spend months in jail, because even if an immigration
judge ordered his release, a post-Sept. 11  regulation allows the government to
stay such decisions during an appeal.

Abdullah decided to plead guilty to the immigration charge.

"They scared me. I'm not used to the jail," Abdullah, 42, said in a telephone
interview from Saudi Arabia, where he is a computer science professor. He was
deported last July.

Researchers Julie Tate and Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              58 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 21, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Asylum in Australia

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 409 words


DURING A VISIT to Washington this week, Australian Prime Minister John Howard
expressed satisfaction that the United States would expedite the process of
bringing the only Australian citizen held at Guantanamo Bay to a military trial.
Since David Hicks was captured in Afghanistan in December 2001, Australians have
been annoyed by the idea that one of their own is being detained indefinitely,
with no clear indication of when his case will be resolved. As it happens, Mr.
Howard himself has faced a barrage of criticism in recent weeks  --  including
within his own party  --  over his government's policies concerning indefinite
detention. The detainees in question, however, are not suspected of involvement
in terrorism; they are simply refugees seeking asylum in Australia.

Australian immigration policy mandates detention for all asylum-seekers who
arrive without the proper documentation  --  even children. Australian
immigration law has been interpreted to require asylum-seekers be detained until
their cases are decided; because there are no defined time constraints, this
process can take months and sometimes years. By contrast, U.S. immigration
policy, while by no means perfect, sets out timetables for parts of the process
and limits indefinite detention to exceptional circumstances. If authorities
decide that the asylum-seeker could be eligible for refugee status in the United
States, immigration officials have discretion over whether detention is
necessary.

A recent inquiry on the detentions included the disturbing but believable
finding that immigration officers responsible for verifying identities "seem to
lack even basic investigative and management skills." The report further faulted
inadequate training and oversight of immigration employees and a lack of
communication between officers and detainees. These systematic failings have led
to some egregious cases, such as that of Peter Qasim. Mr. Qasim finally received
a visa last weekend after nearly seven years in Australia's immigration
detention centers, including the most notorious one, Woomera, closed in 2003
after allegations of grave mistreatment of detainees. It is true that those
darkest days appear to be over. But when Mr. Howard talks about a "speedy
adjudication" for Mr. Hicks at Guantanamo, he should also consider the hundreds
of asylum-seekers languishing in Australia's own barbed wire-enclosed detention
facilities, their cases still unresolved.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              59 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Mute on Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 532 words


ABRUPTLY  --  so abruptly that the White House press office appeared not to know
about it  --  the administration withdrew its two witnesses, Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao, yesterday from
today's Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on comprehensive immigration reform.
No explanation was given. A better metaphor for the White House's inability to
articulate an immigration policy would be hard to find: So divided is the
administration that its leading members aren't even allowed to talk about the
subject in public.

The absence of the administration won't diminish the significance of today's
hearings, however. Despite the coming August recess and the Judiciary
Committee's preoccupation with a Supreme Court nomination, four senators have
now put their names on two serious pieces of immigration legislation. Pressure
from them, as well as from a host of other senators from both parties who back
immigration reform, seems to be pushing the issue forward. More to the point,
the two bills provide a fairly good summary of where the sides in the
immigration debate  stand.

Both bills propose a guest worker program, tamper-proof forms of identity for
all visa-holders and more money for border security. But the measure that will
appeal most to the immigration restrictionists was introduced by Sens. Jon Kyl
(R-Ariz.) and John Cornyn (R-Tex.). In essence, their bill would allow people to
come from abroad and work here for up to two years before returning; would
require illegal immigrants already here to return home before applying to join
that program; and would add 10,000 new Border Patrol officers, 1,250 customs
officers, more jail space and $5 billion worth of high-tech spending to improve
border control.

Supporters of the opposing bill, introduced by Sens.  John McCain (R-Ariz.) and
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), believe the Kyl-Cornyn proposal  is unrealistic.
Mr.  McCain points out that people who have been in this country for decades
illegally will not go home voluntarily if they aren't convinced they'll be able
to come back  --  and that even if it worked, any program that abruptly ejected
all 10 million estimated illegal immigrants could end up "wrecking America's
economy." For that reason, the McCain-Kennedy bill requires illegals to pay a
fine and back taxes and return to the back of the immigration queue, but it
ultimately allows them to apply for legal status. The two senators argue that
this is not an amnesty, because it requires a recognition of wrongdoing. They
also argue that their bill, which creates a longer, more flexible temporary work
visa, will encourage more people to cross the border legally. They are probably
right.

It is possible, of course, that a compromise could be found, and indeed the
outline of one is visible: It would contain high levels of enforcement; new
funds for the borders and for identity cards; a realistic temporary visa
program; and some means of legalizing those who are here without granting them a
free pass. But no grand compromise will occur without political momentum and
political leadership, from the strangely silent White House as well as Congress.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              60 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 5, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Charge Dropped in Va. Terror Case

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 707 words


The scene was emblematic of the war on terror: a government helicopter
clattering over a home in Burke as gun-toting agents smashed through the door
and handcuffed the owner, a Lebanese immigrant.

Hassan Khalil, 37, was arrested by agents with a local terrorism task force this
May and charged with immigration fraud. But now, officials say, the charge has
been dropped. The reason: a mistake in Khalil's immigration records.

Khalil, a U.S. citizen and cell phone technician, said the experience has left
him frustrated and bewildered. He said his attorney was told in July that the
immigration charge was being dropped but that the investigation would continue.

"Overall I'm really angry at this," he said. "Even if they had anything on me,
which I doubt, I haven't seen it. They didn't show it to me. They did all this,
then dropped the case and walked away. And nothing."

Khalil's case was featured in a June article in The Washington Post about the
government's increased use of immigration laws against people who have come
under scrutiny in terrorism cases.

U.S. officials say that such charges sometimes are the easiest way to detain
someone who could be a threat and that there is nothing wrong with prosecuting
people who have broken immigration laws.

Authorities have declined to comment on what brought Khalil to their attention
or whether he could face further accusations. He was charged in May with lying
on his citizenship application by failing to note an arrest by U.S. officials in
the early 1990s for being in the country illegally.

Khalil has said he is innocent. He acknowledges that he overstayed a student
visa but said he later obtained temporary legal papers under a program for
people affected by the Lebanese civil war. He then married a U.S. citizen in
1994 and was granted citizenship in 2000.

Frank Shults, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Alexandria, said
that after an investigation, authorities discovered that Khalil in fact had not
been arrested. Instead, Khalil had agreed with authorities to voluntarily leave
the country after overstaying his visa in the early 1990s, Shults said. Khalil
never left the United States, he said.

"The statements he made on the application about not being arrested were deemed
accurate," Shults said. "So they dropped the charges."

Kareem Shora, of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, said the case
appeared to be part of what he called a pattern of dramatic anti-terrorism
arrests that resulted in immigration allegations or other charges that were
later dropped.

"The use of these high-profile raids, when it's not warranted, is a waste of my
taxpayer money," he said. He said they also damage relations between the
government and Muslim and Arab communities.

Dean Boyd, a spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
agency used a helicopter during the raid to ensure the safety of the agents and
Khalil. He said authorities believed that Khalil had military training and a
black belt in martial arts. Khalil also had told the FBI that he knew members of
Hezbollah, the armed Shiite Muslim movement that the U.S. government considers a
terrorist group, Boyd said.

Khalil said in an interview that he did not know any Hezbollah members in the
United States but that he did in his native south Lebanon, where it is a
political party.

Janice Kephart, a former counsel to the 9/11 commission, said it was important
for the government to use any kind of valid civil or criminal charges  --
including immigration violations  --  to protect homeland security. She
emphasized that U.S. officials didn't act lightly in pressing such charges.

"Prosecutors don't like to lose cases," she said. "That doesn't mean the
government doesn't sometimes make mistakes."

For Khalil, though, the mistake has had painful consequences. He said his
7-year-old daughter was so frightened by the dawn raid that she refuses to sleep
alone. He and his wife jump at sudden noises. And he hasn't figured out how to
retrieve his passport and other documents seized in the raid.

"I just don't feel secure, up to today," he said. "People come up to me and say,
'Congratulations,' and I'm like, 'Yeah, right.' I don't feel it's done."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              61 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 610 words


MARYLAND

Sentence in Slaying A Northeast Washington man who pleaded guilty to murdering a
popular youth basketball coach in front of the coach's 11-year-old son in
Riverdale in February was sentenced yesterday by a Prince George's County judge
to 20 years in prison.

Byron Israel, 19, was sentenced by Circuit Court Judge Richard H. Sothoron Jr.
Israel pleaded guilty Aug. 9 to first-degree felony murder.

Robert Lee Gail, a Metrobus driver who lived in New Carrollton, was attacked
Feb. 14 after the Toyota 4Runner he was driving collided with a stolen Chevrolet
Blazer in which Israel was a passenger. The triggerman, Lawrence I. Green, 22,
of Lanham, has pleaded guilty to first-degree felony murder. He is to be
sentenced Oct. 6.

Immigration Fraud A Potomac lawyer convicted of immigration fraud has been
sentenced by a federal judge to serve 61/2 years in prison, U.S. Attorney Rod J.
Rosenstein announced yesterday.

In April, a federal jury in Greenbelt found Maqsood Mir, 52, guilty of filing
documents that allowed unauthorized immigrants to enter or remain in the United
States. The jury found that Mir conspired with a Virginia businessman to sell
labor certification documents  --  which confer certain immigration benefits  --
to immigrants who did not qualify for them.

U.S. District Judge Alexander Williams Jr. also ordered Mir to pay $25,000 and
demanded $200,000 from his law firm, Mir Law Associates.

Two Slain  Prince George's County detectives are investigating what they believe
are two unrelated homicides that happened less than an hour apart Wednesday
night, police said.

About 10 p.m., police found Eno Worthy, 24, suffering from a stab wound in the
3300 block of Curtis Drive in Hillcrest Heights, where he lived. He died at a
hospital.

About 10:45 p.m., an unidentified man was found in the 3500 block of Windom Road
in Brentwood. He had been shot in the upper body.

VIRGINIA

Instructor Charged A Fairfax County driving instructor was charged with
inappropriately touching a student as he gave her driving lessons, police said
yesterday.

Syed Muhammad Naqui, 50, of Fairfax faces one count of assault and two counts of
sexual battery. Police said he touched a 20-year-old Centreville woman during
driving lessons in the Chantilly area between Aug. 6 and Sept. 8.

Campus Assault The Loudoun County Sheriff's Office is investigating a reported
rape Tuesday night on the Loudoun campus of Northern Virginia Community College.

An 18-year-old woman told deputies that a man in his late teens to early
twenties, whom she had met in the student lounge on the Sterling campus, made
unwanted advances and sexually assaulted her.

The man is described as tall with a slim build, dark eyes and short dark curly
hair. He was last seen wearing a red jersey with elbow-length sleeves and blue
or black baggy pants. Anyone with information about the man is asked to contact
police at 703-777-0475.

Sex Assault A 22-year-old woman was sexually assaulted Wednesday night behind an
elementary school as she walked home from the Dunn Loring Metro station, Fairfax
County police said yesterday.

The woman took a shortcut on a path next to Stenwood Elementary School about
10:15 p.m., police said. She was then grabbed by a man who dragged her into a
wooded area behind the school and sexually assaulted her.

THE DISTRICT

HOMICIDES

*  A 41-year-old man was slain in Southeast Washington yesterday morning, D.C.
police said. Gregory Sam was found fatally shot about 6 a.m. in the 3500 block
of Sixth Street SE, police said. Sam, who lived in that block, was pronounced
dead at the scene.

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2005



CORRECTION: A Crime & Justice item in the Sept. 23 Metro section
mischaracterized the outcome of a case involving Potomac lawyer Maqsood Mir. A
federal jury found Mir guilty of immigration fraud but acquitted him on two
conspiracy charges. His law firm, Mir Law Associates, was convicted on the
conspiracy charges. The Washington Post is committed to correcting errors that
appear in the newspaper. Those interested in contacting the paper for that
purpose can send an e-mail to corrections@washpost.com or call the main number,
202-334-6000, and ask to be connected to the desk involved -- National, Foreign,
Metro, Style, Sports, Business or any of the weekly sections. In addition, the
ombudsman's number is 202-334-7582.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              62 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 20, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Choice on Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A26

LENGTH: 508 words


BOB SCHIEFFER, moderator of the third presidential debate, noted that he had
received more e-mail on immigration than on any other topic. The issue evokes
strong opinions and emotions -- which may explain why neither candidate wants to
talk about it much.

Hard though it is to remember, President  Bush began this year by announcing an
ambitious plan to reform this country's "broken" immigration laws. Among other
things, he proposed a guest-worker program and a way for illegal immigrants to
earn legal status. While we applauded aspects of the proposal, most notably its
commitment to bringing the enormous underground labor economy into the sunlight,
the president left many details vague. In subsequent months, he never clarified
them. On the contrary: He dropped the immigration issue completely. The very
notion of "earned legalization" for illegal  immigrants caused an uproar among
the Republican base, while many people who might have been natural supporters of
the idea were unwilling to stand with Mr. Bush. During  the third debate, the
president made sure to say,  "I don't believe we ought to have amnesty," just in
case any doubters remained.

Sen. John F. Kerry, while not silent like the president, has been circumspect.
He has stuck to his long-standing positions: He favors earned legalization, he
has backed agricultural guest-worker bills in the Senate, and he has spoken,  as
every presidential candidate for the past several decades has, about "cracking
down" on the borders and on employers who hire illegal  workers. Yet  Mr. Kerry
gives few details, either on his Web site or in his public appearances. When
asked about immigration, also in the third  debate, he kept his answers brief,
growing more eloquent only when he spoke of border controls, and he noted that
"we now have people from the Middle East, allegedly, coming across the border."
This is, presumably, wise politics: Emphasize border control and the work that
needs to be done to halt illegal immigrants, rather than dwelling on the
uncomfortable fact that millions of illegal immigrants live in this country and
that something needs to be done with and for them too.

The candidates are reflecting the nation's increasingly conflicted attitude
toward immigration. Although Americans are happy to eat the cheap food and to
enjoy the cheap services provided by recent immigrants, they prefer hearing
about border controls rather than earned legalization. Although Americans are
happy to pay law enforcement officials to keep immigrants from crossing the
border, they are also unbothered by the fact that thousands of agricultural,
manufacturing and service businesses depend on their arrival. Squaring this
circle may turn out to be one of the primary jobs of the next president. It
would be useful to hear more from both candidates about how they intend to do
it.

This is one in a series of editorials comparing the records and programs of the
presidential candidates on important issues. Others can be found at
www.washingtonpost.com/opinion/thechoice.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              63 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 12, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Seafood Plants Lack Shuckers;
Processors Want Limits on Immigrant Workers Raised

BYLINE: David A. Fahrenthold, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 749 words


Chesapeake Bay seafood processors say they're facing catastrophe this year
because a cap on certain "guest workers" is keeping out immigrants who usually
pick crabs and shuck oysters.

Migrant workers have come to dominate shellfish processing over the past decade
-- doing dirty, repetitive work that machines can't and Americans won't,
employers say.

But this year, the seasonal-work visa program that provides these laborers hit
its limit of 66,000 workers on the earliest date ever, Jan. 3.

That has left many businesses empty-handed, including ski resorts in New
England, fish plants in Washington state and numerous processors in Maryland and
Virginia.

"People suddenly woke up to the fact that they're going to be out of business
this spring," said Bill Sieling, executive director of the Chesapeake Bay
Seafood Industries Association, which represents seafood plants around the bay.

In all, Sieling said, about 20 plants -- all on the Eastern Shore -- were not
able to get the workers they applied for. Added together, their requests totaled
about 800 workers, he said.

Now, members of Congress up and down the East Coast are lobbying for the cap on
guest workers to be raised. And seafood processors are scrambling to find other
workers or face shutting down for the season -- and possibly for good.

"When the crabs start running in the summer . . . and you don't have this
infrastructure to pick them anymore, it's going to be bad," said Jack Brooks,
president of the J.M. Clayton seafood company in Cambridge, Md. His company
usually has about 30 immigrant workers.

But some immigration experts say lifting the cap on laborers is not the
solution.

Mark Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that shellfish
processors either should pay wages high enough to attract U.S. workers or invent
a way to mechanize the work.

"The presence of these foreign workers creates a dependency" among employers,
Krikorian said. "It's hard to wean away from it."

The visa problem was the subject of a meeting last night at W.H. Harris Crab
House in Kent Narrows, Md. Several dozen representatives from the seafood
processing business were joined by a few watermen, all telling stories of having
their visa requests denied.

Several said that, if no migrant workers are available this year, a chain of
U.S. workers including fishermen, truck drivers and office workers might be
hurt.

"If we don't get these Mexican workers, we're all out of business," said Ronnie
Jones, a crabmeat processor from Fishing Creek, Md.

"April the first, we're going to shut the door," said Terry Vincent of Woolford,
Md.

The visa program at issue, known as H-2B, allows workers to enter the country
for seasonal work outside of agriculture and then return home. Before bringing
in a worker under this program, an employer must prove that no U.S. residents
are willing to do the job.

The program has become more popular across the country in recent years and has
been used to fill jobs from lawn care workers to lifeguards. It has become
particularly valuable around the bay, where the process of removing crab and
oyster meat from shells is still done largely by hand.

The work is unpleasant. Picking crabs, for instance, requires scraping off the
cooked crab's gills, cleaning out its organs, breaking off the mouth and prying
meat out of tiny cavities.

All that must be repeated up to 600 times a day, yielding a daily wage that
might reach $120 on a good day, Brooks said. That amounts to 20 cents a crab.
Adding to the undesirability in these jobs, experts say, is the fact that in
recent years they have become seasonal because there no longer are enough
shellfish in the polluted bay to sustain jobs year-round.

As a result, experts say, a once-large labor pool has vanished as local workers
found better jobs.

"There's no one else," said Karen Oertel, of W.H. Harris Seafood House in
Chester, Md. "Nobody shucks an oyster anymore."

The shellfish processors turned to the H-2B program, bringing in hundreds of
Mexicans and other immigrants to spend several months in the plants. About 90
percent of Maryland's crabmeat is produced by plants that use H-2B workers, said
Douglas Lipton, a professor of resource management at the University of
Maryland.

But Chesapeake processors say a quirk of the program puts them at a
disadvantage. The window for applications opens in October, but employers can
apply no more than four months before they need workers. Seafood plants do not
need help until April.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              64 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              April 8, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

As Government Cap on Work Visas Rises, So Does Confusion

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 1109 words


The two engineers have been ready for months. One waits in Colombia, the other
in Argentina.

They are experts in wind technology, a fast-growing segment of the electricity
industry. Their employer, Tampa-based Granite Services Inc., says projects have
been delayed as it awaits their arrival  --  and their visas.

So the company's human resources manager keeps an Internet browser open to the
Federal Register, clicking its refresh button every few minutes. How many visas
remain? Should applicants hold a master's or PhD? Will a bachelor's do?

The agency in charge is also looking for answers.

Last month, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, an arm of the Department
of Homeland Security, said it would issue an additional 20,000 visas for highly
skilled foreign workers because this year's cap had already been met. All 65,000
of the H-1B visas for this year were filled by U.S. businesses on Oct. 1, the
first day of the government's fiscal year. In response to complaints from
businesses, Congress in November passed legislation approving the additional
visas, saying they should go to graduates of U.S. institutions with an advanced
degree. But last month, the immigration agency said the visas could go to anyone
with a bachelor's degree, confusing businesses and immigration lawyers.

As of yesterday, agency officials said Homeland Security and the Office of
Management and Budget were still reviewing the criteria for the 20,000 visas.
Christopher S. Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services,
said businesses will have to wait for guidance advising them on who qualifies
and how to apply.

"We can't comment on what exactly is going to happen," he said. "The hows, where
and whats will all be summed up in that guidance. . . . We want to make sure
this is done properly."

The discrepancy in details underscores the business community's criticisms of
U.S. immigration policy. It also foreshadows a growing debate between government
and business over immigration, one that has not been as fervent since the tech
boom of the late 1990s. Back then, as programmers worked to stop anticipated Y2K
problems, the industry lobbied Congress hard to increase the number of foreign
workers they could hire, successfully increasing the cap to as high as 195,000
in some years. These same companies recruited engineers from overseas with
competing offers, expense accounts and limousine rides awaiting their arrival in
the United States.

The H-1B visa allows holders to live and work legally in the United States for
up to six years. Many go on to receive green cards and live permanently in the
United States; others go home.

When boom went bust, many did go home as the hunger for overseas workers  --
and the visas  --  waned. Last year, the cap on H-1B visas returned to 65,000, a
number established by Congress in the 1990s. Now, as the tech economy attempts a
comeback, buoyed by security contracts and federal investments, lobbying efforts
to raise the H-1B cap have resumed.

"The company goes through periods when it's hiring and when it's not hiring. We
are tracking on an upward direction," said Dan Larson, a lobbyist for Texas
Instruments Inc. "These people who have the H-1B visa, they have the skills and
training which is very cutting edge . . . which is exactly where the
semiconductor industry is." Four percent of the Dallas company's U.S. workforce
of 20,000 is on an H-1B visa.

Critics of the visa program say employers aren't looking hard enough in the
United States and have used the program to import cheaper labor. They accuse
these same employers of abusing the program's mandate to pay workers a
"prevailing wage."

"You can hire a computer programmer and pay $12.50 per hour and that passes
muster as prevailing wage," said Ron Hira, a vice president for the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA, a professional society representing
220,000 engineers.

Companies retort that the filing fees to sponsor H-1B visas  --  applied toward
training for U.S. workers  --  have increased from hundreds of dollars to
thousands, and that they also have to pay thousands in lawyers' fees and moving
expenses.

"We have to spend a lot of money to bring in H-1Bs," said Dierdre Spear Petee,
vice president of global human resources at Granite Services. "It's not a matter
of finding cheap labor. It is really and truly for our business meant to find
qualified workers."

Last week, employers were given permission to begin filing applications for next
year's H-1B visas, a process some found illogical since they don't know what the
outcome of this year and the additional 20,000 visas will be. Still, Petee told
the company's lawyer to file for her wind-technology experts, who hold
bachelor's degrees and some additional training, so they had a chance of
arriving by October at the latest.

She said the engineering services and power generation company will probably
need more engineers in the coming year -- engineers she said the United States
doesn't produce enough of  --  but she doesn't know yet how many. "Those needs
won't be apparent until after the window for applications closes, and then,
either the jobs will go unfilled, or they'll be filled with people who don't
meet the qualifications, which will result in higher costs for training,
overtime and longer outages for the utility companies."

Faced with the choice of outsourcing work overseas or importing workers, some
entrepreneurs say the time and money and uncertainty associated with the H-1B
program make their choice clear. "The cost has risen substantially and the quota
has decreased," said Jitendra Vyas, chief executive of Technology Ventures LLC
in McLean. "I think outsourcing is increasing substantially."

About a dozen people, or 40 percent of Technology Ventures staff, are H1-B visa
holders, Vyas said. He lauded the immigration agency for making some aspects of
the visa program easier, such as allowing holders to change jobs and keep their
H-1B visas and reducing the waiting period for visas to be issued. But he said
the hassle of filing petitions for visas, along with the ever-increasing costs
of salaries and benefits for employees in the United States, is forcing him to
grow his business elsewhere. Over the next year, the data-integration company
plans to hire as many as 100 programmers in Pune, a city about 120 miles from
Bombay.

The strategy sounds familiar to Petee. Last year, of Granite Services' 2,000
employees in the United States, 35 held H-1B visas. This year, it has sponsored
19. Petee said the drop-off is the result of a large contract being outsourced
to India.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              65 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 23, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

For Green Card Applicants, Waiting Is the Hardest Part;
Backlog Has Put Immigrant Workers In the Dark Longer About Their Status

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 1226 words

DATELINE: BALA CYNWYD, Pa.


Hundreds of thousands of immigrant workers trying to stay in the United States
find their journey halted somewhere along a maze of boxes, filing cabinets and
cubicles of government contractors.

The backlog of foreign workers seeking green cards, which allow immigrants to
live and work in the United States permanently, numbers more than 330,000. In
September, the Department of Labor set up a center here and another in Dallas to
quicken the first step of processing for employment-based green cards.

But while the federal agency said it has spent time and money to ease a
complicated traffic jam, immigrants, their employers and lawyers have been
growing impatient.

"It's too long," said Rajesh Poudyal, who emigrated from Nepal 15 years ago on a
student visa. His employer, a contractor for NASA in Greenbelt, applied for his
green card in November 2001. "You don't know if it's going to be another
three-year wait. You keep thinking, 'It's gonna happen. It's gonna happen.' "

And yet it hasn't.

Government officials say the wait has been too long for most of the immigrant
workers hoping for their green cards. The oldest case is from August 1998. On
March 28, the Labor Department introduced a computerized fast-track processing
system to handle new applications, doling them out to two centers. Between the
backlog centers and the new sites, labor officials said, they have streamlined a
multi-layered process that could have had some waiting as long as six more
years. Now, they say, the backlog should be cleared within two years.

In employment-based green card applications, the Labor Department essentially
certifies that the employer exists and that the immigrant is being paid the
prevailing wage for the job described. In most cases, employers must also prove
that they sought to hire U.S. workers for the job but could not. As proof, they
provide classified advertisements, competing résumés and summaries of their
recruitment methods.

From this stage, known as labor certification, the application travels to the
Department of Homeland Security, which conducts its own review and decides
whether to allow the immigrant to petition for residency status.

Before the backlog accumulated, immigration attorneys say, labor certification
generally took 30 to 90 days.

Under the new fast-track system, labor officials say, the process should
routinely take up to 60 days.

But there is no such expectation for the 174,000 people awaiting processing here
from about half the states, including Maryland and Virginia, and the District.
Besides 10 federal workers, the remaining staff of 100 work for Exceed Corp.,
the company that successfully bid for the backlog contract.

Starting last year, all 50 states sent boxes upon boxes to one of the two
backlog sites. Officials said that they hope to act on the applications on a
first-in, first-out basis and that they have entered about 80 percent of the
applicants' data into a computerized system over the past year.

"In government terms, that has been quite a short amount of time," said Emily
Stover DeRocco, assistant secretary of labor for employment and training.

The backlog stems from the passage of legislation that allowed undocumented
immigrants or immigrants who had overstayed their visas to apply for green cards
if a family member or employer sponsored them  --  but they had to do it by
April 2001. The result was a surge of green card applications.

The result has also been some resentment of workers who have not been in the
United States legally from workers who have.

"They've given priority to illegal immigrants," said Poudyal, who is on the visa
for highly skilled but temporary workers known as an H-1B."That's how we've
become stuck."

Most difficult, the immigrants and their advocates say, has been the lack of
communication from the Department of Labor about their status. Is their folder
in a box that has even been opened? Is it in the data-entry process? Is their
employer's address being verified, their pay being analyzed?

"It has gone into a black box," said Poudyal, the father of two who owns a home
in Lanham. "You don't know what's inside."

His employer and lawyer have tried to check on the status with no luck. "So you
just hope," Poudyal said.

At the center, officials say it is not uncommon for irate immigrants to show up
at their doors. They say calls from members of Congress and human resources
managers inquiring about specific applications are getting more common. But they
remind critics that the system of immigration is driven by employers' needs and
not immigrants' wants.

It is not a perfect system, DeRocco said in a recent interview. She said her
agency has responded to "tens of thousands" of requests for status reports.
Behind every case number, every file, she said, is someone who desperately wants
to call the United States home.

"We care very deeply about that," she said. "We not only understand but believe
we are doing it for those individuals."

The Labor Department will be involved in discussions about overall immigration
reform, she said.

"H visas are not meeting the employers' need," DeRocco said, referring to the
temporary work-related visas. "Immigration reform is very high on everyone's
agenda."

Companies have started speaking out about U.S. immigration policy, saying it
affects their ability to hire the best people. Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill
Gates has repeatedly advocated removing caps on H-1B visas.

Immigration lawyer Liz Espin Stern of Baker & McKenzie LLP said, other countries
are trying to make immigrating easier. "Canada, the U.K., Australia are passing
foreign-employee-friendly policies," she said. "It's a very inviting program.
Our program in the U.S. has shifted. It sends a message: Don't come."

Employers say the backlog also has become expensive. After six years, companies
with employees who have been on an H-1B visa must apply for extensions  --  and
pay the associated legal and filing fees  --  every year while the green card is
being processed.

"There's a bit of an expense associated with it," said Cliff Sink, the chief
executive of EastBanc Technologies LLC in the District. He said the cost of
sponsoring one immigrant employee ranges from $3,000 to $5,000. "We stopped
paying for the green card because the prices had gone up so much."

His reality might seem incongruous with an immigration policy that mandates that
these green cards are employer-driven, but many immigrants do end up paying for
their passage to permanent residency.

After paying nearly $10,000 for lawyers, Gopal Ratnam, a journalist from India,
said he thinks he has made too hefty an investment to turn back. Besides, his
daughters are accustomed to U.S. schools and ways.

"One stage of it has taken four years," said Ratnam, a staff writer for Army
Times Publishing Co.'s Defense News in Springfield. "I've invested all the
money, resources and time. Should I just say, 'All right, I will give it up and
go back to where I came from?' "

Even after the backlog on the Labor Department's end is cleared, immigration
attorney Michael Maggio warns, the wait might not be over. He worries the
Homeland Security Department might not be able to meet the demand for
employment-based green cards with current quotas.

"We're looking at a situation that's just ongoing," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              66 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 12, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Subcontractor Ordered to Pay Laborers' Wages;
Pr. George's Builder Pleaded Guilty to Cheating Immigrants on Townhouse Work

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 493 words


A Prince George's County judge  ordered a Silver Spring subcontractor yesterday
to pay $21,000 in restitution to a dozen Latino immigrant workers whom he
admitted to cheating out of wages.

Circuit Court Judge Michael P. Whalen also ordered Francisco Sandoval, a
subcontractor who hired the workers to help build luxury townhouses in Bowie, to
pay a $1,000 fine for each of seven misdemeanor counts after he admitted
violating the Wage Payment Act. Sandoval pleaded guilty in April.

Whalen suspended the fines, which could be imposed if Sandoval fails to pay full
restitution, said Assistant State's Attorney Doyle L. Niemann. Whalen also could
hold Sandoval in contempt of court and order him jailed, Niemann said.

Niemann said Sandoval's sentencing marked the first time authorities in Prince
George's have used criminal statutes to recover wages on behalf of immigrant day
laborers.

Eight of the workers attended Sandoval's sentencing yesterday in Upper Marlboro.

Jose Flores, 39, was among them. At the time that Sandoval failed to pay him,
Flores said, his newborn son in his native Honduras was gravely ill with a
fever.

"I didn't have any money to send for medicine or for the doctor," Flores said.
The infant died.

Sandoval made a $6,000 payment yesterday by forfeiting a $5,000 bond to the
state Division of Parole and Probation and paying $1,000, Niemann said.

Parole and Probation officials will forward Sandoval's payments to Casa of
Maryland, an  immigrants' rights organization based in Silver Spring that helped
the workers gather their evidence and negotiated the restitution amount. The
group will distribute what is owed to each of the workers, Niemann said.

Sandoval's attorney did not respond to phone messages seeking comment.

Such cheating of laborers by employers is a growing problem in Prince George's
and across the Washington area.

According to a study by the University of California at Los Angeles released in
June, more than half of day laborers in the Washington area have been cheated
out of wages, and one in four has been hurt on the job. The study was based on
the experiences of 476 day laborers in the District, Maryland and Northern
Virginia who were interviewed by UCLA researchers.

Jayesh Rathod, an attorney with Casa of Maryland, said Sandoval cheated at least
two dozen workers out of wages in June and July 2003. Some of those workers did
not come forward because they had entered the country illegally and were afraid
of drawing attention to themselves, said Ruben Sanchez, 33, a laborer who will
receive back pay from Sandoval.

One of the workers who came forward kept a tally of the hours that he and other
laborers worked, which proved important in obtaining the guilty plea and
restitution, Niemann said.

In all, the 12 workers were owed about $40,000, Niemann said. Casa of Maryland
filed a civil action against the general contractor, who settled that case by
paying $22,000 to the workers.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              67 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 3, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Wives' Visa Status Keeps Them Out of Workplace

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1577 words


Some rooms are empty, most walls are bare, but the mantel in Hanuma Samavedam's
new Loudoun County home seems conspicuously crowded. There, amid family photos
and knickknacks from her native India, sit the academic medals and trophies she
racked up in a previous life.

She turns to them often to remember what it was to feel proud, purposeful,
independent.

She arrived in the United States in 2001, riding the coattails of her husband's
H-1B visa, a guest-worker program for highly skilled professionals like him  --
not that Samavedam wasn't. In India, she earned an MBA and worked as a finance
manager at an accounting firm.  But once she married, U.S. immigration policy
put her in a different category: dependent.

For thousands of women like her, the word defines more than visa status. It
defines them.

"When I came here, everyone said with my qualifications, I would get a job,"
Samavedam said. "I had a very good impression of America, that there are equal
rights for women. ... It's not that I feel lonely. I feel unnecessary."

While spouses of diplomats and business executives can legally work in the
United States, those married to computer programmers and software engineers  --
the job descriptions most often associated with the H-1B visas  --  cannot.
According to the State Department, nearly half a million such visas have been
issued in the past four years, while about 300,000 visas have been issued for
their dependents.

"Having a trailing spouse in today's day and age is not dealt with," said
immigration lawyer Elizabeth Espin Stern of Baker & McKenzie LLP. "We've
neglected these individuals and their families. It is an arrogant stance and an
insensitive one."

Since the mid-1990s, as the tech industry successfully lobbied Congress to
increase the number of professional visas, hundreds of thousands of guest
workers have entered the United States, mostly young men from India and China.
In what has become an almost formulaic journey in the United States, the workers
tend to arrive single and return to their homelands to marry, bringing their
wives back to the United States on the H-4 visa issued to dependents.

In Samavedam's case  --  in which her horoscope and that of Raghu Donepudi were
matched, their family backgrounds compared, and their personalities deemed
compatible after a 15-minute conversation  --  immigration status never entered
discussions.

"That topic never came up. He said he had an active life, that he played golf,
cricket," said Samavedam, whose hair parting is streaked with red vermillion
powder to show she is married. "When I told him about my life in India, he said
here it would also be the same."

Instead, she discovered a world initially confined to their Stamford, Conn.,
apartment. As Donepudi left at 7 a.m., Samavedam tried to stay asleep so she
wouldn't have to face a day "sitting idle," as she describes it. She rattled off
how she kept busy: CNN, an afternoon nap, elaborate homemade meals, several
immigration Web sites.

Nearly five years later, she lives in a spacious house in a South Riding
development, but the routines remain the same. The recent birth of a son,
Madhav, helped break the monotony, but Samavedam said her desire to work remains
strong. She said she dreams of having her own money and of juggling day care
drop-offs with morning meetings.

"Her career has already vegetated for four years," said Donepudi, whose
application for a green card is among a backlog of 300,000 cases in the Labor
Department. "We're living 50 percent of our full potential."

Some dependent spouses have been able to find employers to sponsor H-1B visas
for them. Those work visas allow holders to stay in the country for up to six
years, at which point they must return home or have their employers file green
card applications. Once they have received green cards, workers and their
families can live and work in the United States freely, but getting a green card
can take years.

Advocates of more restrictive immigration laws say extending work authorization
to dependents would take jobs away from Americans. Christopher S. Bentley, a
spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of the Department
of Homeland Security, said that he empathized with the immigrant spouses but
that they entered the United States knowing their status would be temporary and
dependent.

"It's a choice they made," Bentley said.

Lawyer and immigrant advocate Shivali Shah, who surveyed 70 H-4 visa holders,
found that all but one of them would work if they could. And dozens of
interviews with respondents revealed high rates of depression, isolation and
loneliness. "The H-4 visa is taking some of the brightest women in India and
turning them into housewives here," Shah said. "Their lives as professionals
would have thrived in India but here, they are just somebody's wife. Not being
allowed to work is skewing the power balance of the marriage."

As the co-founder of Kiran, a South Asian women's organization in North
Carolina, Shah observed that an unusually high number of battered women seeking
help were on dependent visas. Last year, she launched the survey with the hopes
of using its results to lobby on their behalf. The dependent women, battered or
not, have few advocates, Shah said. Immigration lawyers represent employers or
workers, and other organizations tend to rally behind poor, undocumented
migrants.

"Your most productive years for work out of college were spent e-mailing all day
and collecting recipes from the Internet and waiting for your husband to come
home so he can take you grocery shopping," she said.

Some women are so unhappy that they'd rather leave the United States  --  and
their husbands. After Brazilian native Marselha Goncalves married a Frenchman on
an H-1B visa, she felt her world shrink down to the walls of their Arlington
apartment. Night after night, Bruno Margerin found his bride on the couch
crying. They bickered over stupid things like how much salt she had put in
dinner.

To save the marriage, Margerin told his wife  --  who had a master's degree in
international peace and conflict resolution from American University  --  to get
as far away from him as she needed to find work.

Goncalves accepted a job this year in Haiti with a division of the United
Nations.

"I'd rather be in a place where the two of us can work," she said during a
recent visit to Arlington. "The hardest thing for me is to be apart. But here, I
don't feel fulfilled. The Food Network cannot be the highlight of my day. We
live in a capitalist world, so for you to be recognized, you have to get a
paycheck."

Some women work illegally, while others fill their time on Web sites and
listservs for dependent spouses, where they can swap recipes and status reports
on green card applications. There is even a Yahoo group for dependent spouses in
Dallas.

To combat the silence of suburbia that seemed so at odds with the bustling,
crowded India she left, Bindu Reddy went to the library and volunteered at a
school when she arrived in the United States. Sometimes the former
special-education teacher browsed job listings on the Internet, knowing that few
schools would sponsor her work permit.

She says she still wonders what would have happened if she had not immigrated.
She probably would have opened her own school by now. Her house would probably
dwarf the Germantown two-bedroom apartment she calls home.

Before coming to the United States in 1998, the Reddys lived in London  --
where spouses like Bindu are given work permits.

Like Samavedam, Bindu Reddy has been waiting years for her husband to get his
green card so she can begin to have choices again. In a region where economists
estimate that a family of three needs to earn $47,000 to $62,000 a year to get
by, the Reddys, like many U.S. families, would like two incomes to earn money
for savings or extras, such as dinners out or DVDs for the boys.

"We feel not for ourselves but for our kids. They ask us, 'Why can't we move?'"
said Reddy, who has a master's degree in special education. "My son asks me,
'When are you going to work? I want to go to day care, too.' Sometimes I shout
at him for saying that, and I feel bad."

In the case of India, where matchmakers do not hesitate to ask potential mates
details about their salaries, skin color, even weight, observers say women's
families are getting more inquisitive about immigration status. Because of a
robust Indian economy and advances they have made in the workplace, fewer Indian
women want to leave to become housewives, said Murugavel Janakiraman, chief
executive of BharatMatrimony Group, a global matchmaking service.

"In the late 1990s, the people were more interested in going abroad and wanted a
foreign groom. They were not really concerned about whether they could get a
job," Janakiraman said in a phone interview from the southern Indian city of
Chennai. "Now they prefer to be in India."

Mostly via e-mail, Hanuma Samavedam keeps up with news of former colleagues and
the various job opportunities they are finding in India. Some have been promoted
two, even three, times since she left. She acknowledged the education her son
will get in the United States and the job opportunities for her husband. But she
wondered aloud whether her sacrifice is worth it.

"I became a housewife here, but my mind wants to work," she said. "If I get a
job today, I will like this country, too."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              68 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 16, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Scarborough Should Point Her Finger at Va. Republicans

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 381 words


In her April 10 Close to Home column, Melanie Scarborough praised Del. David B.
Albo (R-Fairfax) for his bill that denies illegal immigrants access to state
benefits, including Medicaid. Readers who are unaware that Scarborough
cherry-picked her examples of legislation  might be interested to hear that Albo
also:

*  Voted against a bill that would make serial stalking a felony.

*  Proposed legislation that would reduce the penalty for child molesters.

*  Claimed that Muslims would "preach jihad against Christians" in public
schools.

*  Refused to fund transportation projects for Northern Virginia.

Of course, Scarborough later derided Sen. Patsy Ticer (D-Alexandria) for her
legislation to provide hearing aids to deaf children  --  oh, the horror!  --
so perhaps it was already apparent that Scarborough's judgment is suspect.

--  Scott Turner

Reston

*

Melanie Scarborough writes that "one of the crowning achievements of the 2005
legislature was passage of a law . . . giving access to state welfare benefits
only to those who reside in Virginia legally." What is confusing is that
Scarborough, like the GOP lawmakers she champions in Richmond, seeks to deter
"criminal behavior" on the backs of those most vulnerable: the people who have
come to Virginia and provide labor illegally, rather than those who benefit from
it.

In light of the economic benefits that low-paid migrants bring to the state, and
the vulnerability of these people in our economy, one might be inclined to think
that our society should bear some responsibility for them. This is particularly
so given the shared moral and ethical values we teach our children about caring
for our neighbors and loving others as ourselves. Instead of pointing an
accusing finger of "criminal behavior" their way, Scarborough would do well to
find homegrown criminal behavior much more deserving of finger-pointing.

As a resident of Arlington County for nearly 20 years, I expect our state
senators and delegates to represent those otherwise without a voice in our
political process, and those most on the margins of our society, during
legislative sessions in Richmond. Such is the legacy of Democrats in Virginia,
regardless of where they live in relation to Washington.

--  Richard E. Hurst

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              69 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 9, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Asylum Seekers Often Mistreated, Study Funds

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 763 words


People seeking asylum in the United States are held in detention centers where
they are frequently handcuffed and restrained with belly chains, put in solitary
confinement for disciplinary reasons, and forced to share quarters with more
dangerous inmates facing criminal prosecution, according to a study released
yesterday by the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom.

The study by the bipartisan commission, created by Congress in 1998 to monitor
religious freedom in other countries, concluded that the Department of Homeland
Security's system for processing asylum seekers is often harsh, long and
arbitrary.

The study concluded that asylum is granted or denied "depending on where the
alien arrived, and which immigration judges or inspectors addressed the alien's
claim." Refugees who landed in New York were much less likely to be granted
asylum than those who landed in Miami, where the population of those with asylum
is largely Cuban. Refugees who retain attorneys are about 11 times as likely to
be granted asylum as those with no legal representation.

The report was released just days before the Senate is set to review legislation
proposed by House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
(R-Wis.) that would make it more difficult to gain asylum.

Mark Hetfield, director of the study and immigration counsel for the commission,
said the conditions at detention centers "were totally inappropriate."

"They were exactly like jails," he said. "These are people who are fleeing
persecution, many from unjust imprisonment in their own countries, and we are
treating them like common criminals."

Applicants for asylum are seeking refuge in the United States after expressing
fears of persecution or worse if they are returned to their home countries. Many
are supposed to be held for short periods of time while authorities check
whether they have legitimate claims, a process designed to prevent terrorists
and others from using the immigration system to enter the country. Some are held
much longer.

In fiscal 2003, the government granted asylum in 11,434 cases, according to its
statistics.

As refugees wait in jails and jaillike facilities nationwide, they sometimes
have been strip-searched, shackled, handcuffed in their cells or placed in
isolation as part of an ordeal so harsh that some give up and return home.

For those who stay, the psychological damage from confinement can be lasting,
wrote Craig Haney, a psychologist who co-wrote the section of the study on
detention. "Most people experience incarceration as painful and even traumatic,"
he said. "It is certainly not the case that everyone who is incarcerated is
disabled or psychologically harmed by it. . . . But few people end the
experience unchanged by it."

Homeland Security maintains 19 facilities, including six county jails, in 12
states, to house about three-quarters of the foreign nationals who say they have
fled persecution. The cost of detaining refugees varied from $30 to $200 per
day, averaging $83. Only one of the facilities, in Broward County near Miami,
trained its staff "with respect to what asylum seekers might have gone through,"
the study said.

All but two facilities allowed detainees to work. "In most of the detention
facilities where work was allowed, detainees were paid," according to the
report. "However, in each case . . . pay for their labor was very minimal -- $1
per day."

In each institution, detainees had little contact with the outside world. In
most cases, they were allowed only one or two visits per week, lasting about an
hour. "The majority of detention facilities prohibited any kind of contact . . .
with family members, which meant that visits often occurred behind plexi-glass
windows."

Detainees were allowed to make calls but not receive them. Incoming letters were
opened in every facility, and half the institutions placed limits on the number
of letters a detainee could send out.

The report's authors recommended that the Department of Homeland Security, which
supervises the asylum system, create an office headed by a high-level official
to address issues related to asylum. It proposed that asylum officers be allowed
to grant asylum to those seeking it during their interview, easing the burden on
detention centers.

The panel also called for the establishment of standards and conditions
appropriate for detained non-criminal asylum seekers and said that the Homeland
Security Department should consider a method of parole for detainees who show
that they are not likely to flee or present a security risk.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              70 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 3, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Egyptian Living in Md. Accused of Smuggling Countrymen Into U.S.

BYLINE: Allan Lengel, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A19

LENGTH: 390 words


A former driver for Saudi Arabia's embassy in Washington appeared in federal
court in Alexandria yesterday on charges that he used fraudulent documents to
smuggle Egyptians into the United States from 1999 to 2001.

At least one of the Egyptians arrived at Dulles International Airport two weeks
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, federal officials said. But the
investigation, which is ongoing, has not turned up any links to terrorism, they
said.

Mohamed Abdel Wahab Yakoub, 60, an Egyptian national who resides in New
Carrollton, made his initial appearance in U.S. District Court on the charges of
smuggling aliens into the United States, officials said.

Yakoub, who was fired from the embassy in late 2002, was released after the
hearing so he could be treated for a pressing medical condition, they said.

"This was a unique and troubling smuggling scheme from our perspective," Allan
J. Doody, special agent in charge of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's
Washington field office, said in a statement.

"Anytime you have an individual exploiting his post at an embassy to smuggle
people into this country it raises serious homeland security concerns," Doody
said.

Calls to Yakoub's home last night were not returned.

The charges focused on four Egyptians, but authorities said they were looking at
several others who may have entered the country with Yakoub's assistance.

They said the four people named in the charging document would go before an
immigration judge to determine their legal status.

Federal authorities allege that Yakoub was well known in certain circles in
Egypt for his ability to help smuggle people into the United States for a fee.

A spokesman for the Saudi Arabian Embassy's press office said yesterday that
officials needed to review Yakoub's personnel file before commenting.

An affidavit signed by Ramon Oyegbola, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agent and a member of the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force, said Yakoub charged
each person $3,000 to $5,000.

In return, he used embassy stationery to write bogus letters to the U.S. Embassy
in Cairo saying the Egyptians would be working for a Saudi diplomat in the
United States.

Yakoub authenticated the letter with an embassy stamp that authorities said they
suspect he stole. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo then issued a visa.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              71 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                          May 2, 2005 Monday 01:00 PM

Outlook: Border Crisis

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Freelance Writer

LENGTH: 3491 words

HIGHLIGHT: Stranded migrants. Dead bodies in the desert. Desperate ranchers,
angry citizens, Blackhawk chases across befouled landscape: On the Arizona
border with Mexico, it's a mess. And area residents are sick of it, reports
Renee Downing in her Sunday Outlook article. Last month's civilian Minuteman
patrols may have been more useless stunt than useful strategy, but at least they
brought much-needed publicity to the region's plight. As more and more people
try to get into the United States illegally, undeterred by massive Border Patrol
operations that have shut down most of the frontier and channeled the flow into
treacherous desert terrain, Arizonans wonder why the government in Washington
can't come up with a solution to the illegal immigration problem that addresses
the root of the problem--an economic need on both sides of the border.


Stranded migrants. Dead bodies in the desert. Desperate ranchers, angry
citizens, Blackhawk chases across befouled landscape: On the Arizona border with
Mexico, it's a mess. And area residents are sick of it, reports Renee Downing in
her Sunday Outlook article. Last month's civilian Minuteman patrols may have
been more useless stunt than useful strategy, but at least they brought
much-needed publicity to the region's plight. As more and more people try to get
into the United States illegally, undeterred by massive Border Patrol operations
that have shut down most of the frontier and channeled the flow into treacherous
desert terrain, Arizonans wonder why the government in Washington can't come up
with a solution to the illegal immigration problem that addresses the root of
the problem--an economic need on both sides of the border.

Renee Downing , a freelance writer and columnist for the Tucson Weekly, was
online to answer questions about illegal immigration and border issues.

Read her Sunday Outlook article: Border Control? What We See Here Is Anything
But.

A transcript follows.

____________________

DeRidder, La.: A discussion of illegal border crossings should include the
demand created for illegal immigrants created by U.S. employers ready and
willing to pay below minimum wages for work performed under illegal conditions.
It's a syndrome similar to drugs: as long as there is demand with insufficient
enforcement of existing laws, there will be suppliers. Punitive laws are already
in place that would effectively stop the hiring of illegal immigrants, but the
political will for enforcement is just not there. However, one more terrorist
act on U.S. soil along the lines of the bombing of the World Trade Center in
1993 and it's subsequent destruction in 2001 and both the Mexican and the
Canadian borders will in all probability be sealed by U.S. military forces, and
no further undocumented crossings permitted.

Renee Downing: I absolutely agree that if we're going to try to stop illegal
immigration, we must enforce laws against hiring. there are farms within 10
miles of the border here that employ hundreds of undocumented workers, and no
one bothers the owners about it. The great cruelty of our current policies is
that they put all the blame on the least powerful people in the equation -- the
migrants.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Your op-ed was a huge disappointment. When I saw the headline,
I briefly thought that someone writing for The Post was finally going to discuss
our immigration problems without the usual "we need cheap labor" mantra. But
then you joined in, same as everyone else. How about the medical costs that we
have to pay for this "cheap labor"? How about the costs of educating the
offspring of the "cheap labor"? How about the environmental damage imposed by
all the overcrowding due to the flood of "cheap labor" into our cities.
Suddenly, it doesn't look so cheap any more, does it?

Renee Downing: I agree that I vastly oversimplified -- partly for reasons of
space -- a big, complicated issue. Clearly, it would be better for our country
if businesses would pay American workers a decent wage with benefits for all
jobs. But we've become Wal Mart Nation -- we want it cheap, cheap, cheaper, and
rarely ask who made it and where it comes from.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I for one would be more than willing to pay more money for
fruit, vegetables, and waiters, in exchange for border security and a stop to
illegal immigration. Hire Americans!;

Renee Downing: I would, too. But how about your neighbors. We've become a nation
of smart consumers. Period.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: You give awfully short shrift to the opinions of, as you put
it, "those who think 'those people don't belong here.'" Can you put forward a
non-hysterical argument for why illegal aliens DO belong here? In my view, they
belong in their own country, just as much as I belong in mine. That's the whole
concept of the nation-state. Get it?

Renee Downing: I don't care to answer rude questions. Get it?

_______________________

Olney, Md.: Is there any reason to believe that not just Mexicans are trying to
cross our southern borders, with more sinister purposes in mind?

Renee Downing: Last I heard, there haven't been any apprehensions of terrorists.
But who knows? 1000s of people cross every day, and it would be very easy for
very bad people to come in with them. In fact, very bad people do it now:
Drug-smuggling is a major industry around here. This, in my opinion, is one more
reason to set up a decent guest-worker program -- it would make it harder for
criminals to enter, and free up law enforcement to hunt for them.

_______________________

Greenbelt, Md.: This all just makes no sense to me. What, exactly, are these
cowboys 'all riled up' about anyway? Are they seriously facing economic
competition from day laborers and migrant farm workers? If so, perhaps they have
bigger problems to face than the border.

But why are we taking their beef seriously? These lunatics are just racist
vigilantes, no different than the white robed gangs that tried to enforce Jim
Crow laws during segregation. Some folks supported them, but that didn't make it
right. Lots of academics and journalists sought to 'understand' them, but that
didn't make it right either.

History has judged those fools harshly, although it took far too long and too
many lives. I can only hope that we render our verdict on these bigots much
quicker and with more certainty.

Renee Downing: Most of the Minutemen are elderly RV-ers with lots of guns and a
distaste for Latinos. And of course, unless their ancestors were Tohono O'odham
or Yaqui or Apache, they're the descendents of immigrants -- many of whom were
despised when they first came.

The migration does cause many problems along the border, but the invisible
benefits of cheap labor help drive the area's economy. Do these folks want to
pay double for a meal entirely produced by American workers with benefits? I
kind of doubt it.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: What are your thoughts on the role of the Government of Mexico
in all this? I read about Mexico issuing guidebooks on how to enter the United
States illegally. Seems like they aren't a very good "amigo".

Renee Downing: The Mexican government is vile. They certainly use the border as
an outlet for their people. If it weren't for El Norte, they'd be looking at
revolution before long. There's cynicism and casual cruelty everywhere in this
situation.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Why is it that so many Americans refuse to see their American
birth for exactly what it is: a fortunate accident? Just because you came from
the right womb doesn't mean that you should prohibit others who are actually
willing to work for it an opportunity to join the club. As an Arizona native, I
am embarrassed to see what is happening there. The whole notion of "those
people" versus "us" is frankly stupid.

Renee Downing: I entirely agree. Thanks for saying this!

_______________________

Bethesda, Md.: What are the best estimates for net illegal immigration to the
U.S. in recent years, and what are the most reliable sources for those
estimates? Thanks.

Renee Downing: I can't tell you, but it's a six-digit number. The estimated
number of undocumented foreign nationals in the country is about 11 million,
according to unbiased sources. (On the xenophobic websites you often see 20
million.) But of course no one knows for sure.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: Immigration isn't just a southwest phenomenon. In Northern
Virginia, we see a lot of construction workers and building custodians who seem
to come from Central America. They work extremely hard at jobs that few people
born in the U.S. would want to have. I also suspect that the federal government
hires contractors who in turn hire immigrants to do the scut work without the
feds having to pay stuff like Social Security and medical care.

Renee Downing: Yes. One of the most painful ironies about this whole thing is
that the employers profit and the migrants take all the heat. It's completely
hypocritical. If our government had any real interest in reducing the number of
migrants coming in, they would track down and prosecute the employers. I read
somewhere that Customs and Immigration has something like 50,000 agents on the
border and 124 agents doing enforcement.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Do you think passage of the Central America Free Trade
Agreement would perpetuate the illegal immigration problem in the U.S.?

Renee Downing: Yes. NAFTA has been at least partly responsible for the huge
surge in Mexican emigration in the last 10 years.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Ms. Downing - I think your article is an excellent summary of
all the issues surrounding immigration (legal or otherwise) and cheap labor. How
do you think the current situation compares to previous immigration waves in
U.S. history? Were the debates in the past more or less vitriolic and
complicated than they are today?

Renee Downing: Thank you.

Poor immigrants have almost always been disliked and suspected in this country
-- by the children or grandchildren of other immigrants, of course. Some of it's
simple xenophobia; some of it's fear. I believe that the world is getting meaner
all the time -- immigration is a hot topic now in Europe, for example -- because
we are becoming overcrowded and competition for basic resources is getting
fiercer. 6 billion humans on earth is too many.

But back to your question -- I'm no expert, but I know that reaction to the
great Irish influx in the 1840s and 50s was vicious. Blaming the poor Mexicans
who come north when there are no jobs at home is like blaming the Irish for the
potato famine.

_______________________

Harrisburg, Pa.: Is there more we can do to improve the Mexican economy,
especially in oil exploration, and then seeing that the profits are better
shared with the population, so that Mexicans can improve their lives, or perhaps
part of our profit share is used towards immigrant programs?

Renee Downing: I read recently that the oil industry has been a disaster for
every 3rd-world country that's developed it. It employs very few people and the
money from it flows to the rich people who invested in it to begin with. And
they never seem to want to share. The ruling class of Mexico is extremely
corrupt and arrogant, and about as likely to share the wealth with their poor as
the Iraqis or the Libyans.

_______________________

Virginia: If I want to be a Mexican citizen, it is the law in Mexico that I have
to learn Spanish. There is a double standard here.

Renee Downing: Of course there is. This is America, a great and tolerant
country.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: You say : "Most of the Minutemen are elderly RV-ers with lots
of guns and a distaste for Latinos. And of course, unless their ancestors were
Tohono O'odham or Yaqui or Apache, they're the descendents of immigrants -- many
of whom were despised when they first came."

Actually, there's a huge difference between settlers and immigrants. For
settlers, think Jamestown, or Plymouth Rock, or the men who tamed the wild west.
Immigrants, on the other hand, arrive at an already established society, and
avail themselves of its benefits. The descendants of the settlers have a pretty
good case for making this distinction.

Renee Downing: Okay, so the descendants of all the Irish and Italians who showed
up in New York in the last two centuries are less American than the descendants
of the pilgrims? Sorry. That's un-American in my book.

_______________________

Fairfax, Va. : As the kid of parents who came to this country from Asia and
experienced some "interesting" moments from the so-called natives, I still hold
the opinion that this country has a draw that few others in the world have
had--until now. You're very right that the world has become a meaner place. And
here, we seem all too willing to blame whole classes of people--immigrants
(legal or illegal), gays, Muslims, judges etc. for our inability to deal with
the changing world.

Renee Downing: I think that's typical of the way groups of people think. But we
should be better than that. We certainly started out with higher standards for
ourselves.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: I find it comical that people state these are jobs Americans
would not do anyway. American workers would be happy to do the jobs illegal
immigrants perform, if given an appropriate wage for America. Corporations are
being given a free pass and ultimately encouraging illegal immigration to the
United States.

Renee Downing: This may be true of many industries, such as meat-packing, where
cheap immigrant labor has been used to break unions. But really, how many
Americans are going to live the life of a migrant farm worker? Following the
seasons, doing hard physical labor all day, no benefits whatsoever and the rest
of it? If these Americans exist, I'd like to see them.

_______________________

Alexandria, Va.: Thank you for pointing out some of the obvious issues with this
whole U.S. vs. them attitude. Unless we are 100% Native American, we all came
from somewhere else and 95% probably have an illegal immigrant in our past. It
is racism, pure and simple. But I had to laugh when I heard these vigilant
groups want to patrol the Canadian border. I dare them to go to Vermont and
patrol the towns that literally straddle the borders, such as Derby Line. How
will they handle the library or court house where half the building is in
Vermont and the other half in Canada?

Renee Downing: They don't want to patrol the Arizona border in the summer for
obvious reasons. Time to save us from Canada!

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Your op/ed piece shows the typical narrow-minded economic view
of the illegal immigration problem. You write:

"From a free-market point of view, this movement of people looks like a classic
example of the law of supply and demand....America is addicted to cheap labor,
and withdrawal is beyond contemplation."

Even if putting a stop to illegal immigration has negative effects on "the
economy", that isn't the end of the debate. Something can hurt economically and
still be the preferred policy. In other words, there are cultural issues,
language issues, overcrowding issues, and environmental issues, that transcend
economics and that MUST be included in an intelligent debate about illegal
immigration. Your op/ed piece failed to do this in a meaningful way, concluding
that just because stricter control and deportations might hurt "the economy",
it's a non-starter. You are wrong.

Renee Downing: The crucial issue is not what we think about the immigration from
the south; it is a fact. Once we wall off the border, we'll have to start
fencing the coasts. What we are doing now does not work. We need a guest-worker
program, to repeal NAFTA, and a plan to help Mexico get its act together. We are
gravely endangered by having a revolution-ripe 3rd-world country as a next-door
neighbor, and even leaving common humanity and our tradition of generosity
aside, it is in our best interests to stop exploiting Mexico and start helping.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: Recently I joined an anti-immigration group because of the
problems I see in the nation's schools and neighborhoods that are a direct
result of illegal immigration. It's a movement considered that only angry
Caucasians join, but I'm black and I believe we need to get control of our
borders.

Illegal day workers who take jobs away from those who are here legally - that's
American and foreign-born, mind you - are afforded more and more benefits at the
expense of those who are born here or went through the process to come legally.

We want to give them driver's licenses, like 9/11 was a test case. We want to
give them college educations when many black teenagers can't afford a college
education. And we want to make sure they get good health care when there are
kids out there whose parents work 60 hours a week and still can't afford a
health plan.

Give me a break.

Renee Downing: I haven't heard of anybody trying very hard to give illegal
immigrants good health-care. D.C. is clearly very different from Arizona.

_______________________

Aromas, Calif.: To help stem the tide of illegals why can't the federal
government enforce the law against hiring the illegals? This could be done like
it is for sale of drug busts, confiscate all the assets of the person or
business that do the hiring.

Renee Downing: That's a great idea! Confiscation would make them think twice.
Unfortunately, our government is bent on punishing the workers, not the
employers. We need to make noise about this issue.

_______________________

Whetstone, Ariz: A useless effort? Did you spend any time down here? Have you
talked to the real residents of the area? The participants of the Minuteman
Project? Representatives such as Randy Graf, J.D. Hayworth, Tom Tancredo, Jim
Sensenbrenner and a long list of others?

I am a journalist and I live down here along the border. I spent many hours
talking with all those affected by both the border problems and the Minutemen. I
have to dig to find any real critics, and I am not talking about the reporters
and editors of the Sierra Vista Herald.

If anything these people, who, during the entire month, did absolutely nothing
illegal but managed to bring world wide attention to this very real problem.

Why is there so much criticism of the Minutemen?

Renee Downing: As I think I said at the beginning of my column, I deeply
appreciate the attention that the Minutemen brought to the problem. As to their
effectiveness in any other respect, I take the Border Patrol's word for it that
they were simply a nuisance.

_______________________

Wheaton, Md.: There's legal immigration and there's illegal immigration. If we
have laws governing immigration then we should abide by them.

Renee Downing: There is the matter of immigration quotas. Laws can change, and
they need to deal with the way the world is, not the way we would like it to be.

_______________________

Arlington, Va.: The line of argument about "jobs that Americans won't accept"
strikes me as a bit simplistic. It's the availability of cheap labor that drives
wages down to a level that Americans won't accept. Without immigrant labor, the
economy would still need service personnel, but there would likely have to be
upward pressure on wages and working conditions in those jobs to a level that
Americans would accept them. No, I don't see my teenager picking melons for 12
hours a day, but that's a false comparison; without cheap immigrant labor, there
would be more economic pressure on the melon farmers to mechanize that task, as
has happened with so much else in modern farming.

I don't mean to sound anti-immigrant. I'm not resentful of unskilled immigrants
for taking the jobs they do at the wages they do. They're responding to economic
incentives and trying to make a living. And obviously they're not going away.
I'm just saying that it's an overstatement to suggest that the American economy
would grind to a halt without them.

Renee Downing: You may be able to see Americans sucking it up and paying more
for everything they buy, but I can't. In the Emilia-Romana (sp?) region of Italy
, local traditions of labor and craftsmanship are supported by the whole
population, who value stability and the welfare of their neighbors. This is has
become the wealthiest area in Italy. But that is a very different culture, where
people have made very different choices. We want more plastic crap for cheap and
we want it now. It's the market we've created that draws cheap labor north.

_______________________

Washington, D.C.: What's with all this "racism" talk? There's a difference
between U.S. citizens and foreign nationals. That has nothing to do with race.
Seems kind of obvious to me.

Renee Downing: Did I say racism?

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: I think Congress is burying its head in the sand on this
issue or they're afraid of something.

Renee Downing: Congress is afraid of touching a very hot issue. They lost their
spines -- not to mention other portions of their anatomies -- long ago. This is
the sort of situation in which we need strong leadership. Where we would find
that, I have no idea.

_______________________

Renee Downing: Thank you all very much for joining in. I'm so glad to find many
people thinking about this issue.

Best wishes, Renee Downing

_______________________

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                        July 27, 2005 Wednesday 11:00 AM

PBS Wide Angle: 'Border Jumpers'

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Producers

LENGTH: 2719 words

HIGHLIGHT: Along the border between an unstable and destitute Zimbabwe, and a
relatively calm and prosperous Botswana, a 300-mile, eight-foot-high electric
fence is being erected -- ostensibly to stop the spread of cattle disease. But
the fence also blocks the human tide of illegal immigrants who are fleeing
poverty and political repression in Zimbabwe. Every night, Botswana's armed
soldiers try to stop the border jumpers from climbing over or cutting through
the fence, in a desperate search for a better life. Last year alone, Botswana
repatriated a total of 36,000 illegal immigrants back to Zimbabwe.


Along the border between an unstable and destitute Zimbabwe, and a relatively
calm and prosperous Botswana, a 300-mile, eight-foot-high electric fence is
being erected -- ostensibly to stop the spread of cattle disease. But the fence
also blocks the human tide of illegal immigrants who are fleeing poverty and
political repression in Zimbabwe. Every night, Botswana's armed soldiers try to
stop the border jumpers from climbing over or cutting through the fence, in a
desperate search for a better life. Last year alone, Botswana repatriated a
total of 36,000 illegal immigrants back to Zimbabwe.

This story involves two dramatically different African nations - one a success
story, the other virtually in economic collapse. Wide Angle observes the human
drama behind the barbed wire, hearing the stories of those whose lives have
become entangled in the fence: illegal immigrants threatened with repeated
arrest and deportation, a cattle farmer who strongly favors the fence, and a
journalist who reports daily on growing fears among Botswana's citizens that
their 1.7 million people could be overrun by Zimbabwe's troubled 12 million.

Producers Peter Hutchens and Ryan Hill were online Wednesday, July 27, at 11
a.m. ET to discuss the film, "Border Jumpers," which airs Tuesday, July 26, at 9
p.m. ET (check local listings).

PBS Wide Angle: Border Jumpers.

A transcript follows.

____________________

Laurel, Md.: Most African borders were drawn by colonialists without regard to
the population patterns of the indigenous population.

Do the border jumpers have strong ethnic ties to the people of the neighboring
area?

Peter Hutchens: That's a great observation. Some of the Zimbabwean border
jumpers do indeed share a common ethnic heritage with their Botswanan neighbors.
I believe that one of these groups is the Kalanga people. It's true that
colonial borders were often drawn with strategic interests, rather than cultural
ones.

_______________________

Los Angeles, Calif.: Gentlemen, I had the opportunity to view the program last
evening here in Los Angeles. It was a very interesting program and I commend you
on bringing this plight of the people of Zimbabwe. My question is this: given
the state of affairs in Africa with the transition of colonial powers giving
control back to African people, do you think that continent will ever take
advantage of the aid the Western powers are contributing and really use that to
help themselves out of poverty? Or will the nations of Africa continue to fool
the world that they truly are committed to helping themselves?

Peter Hutchens: I would say that overall I am hopeful about the future of
Africa. It may take time for Africans and African leaders to really begin to
work in the best interests of their people, but speaking with people in Botswana
and with the Zimbabwean border jumpers gave Ryan and me hope about Africa's
future. Many African nations are still young in terms of independence, and as
the education system in Africa improves, I think that Africans will begin to
take hold of their countries -- and in some instances, begin to hold their
leaders accountable.

_______________________

London, United Kingdom: Obviously, the answer to this problem is not for
Botswana to take in Zimbabweans--it is, instead, for Zimbabwe to get rid of
Mugabe and restore good governance. What are the prospects for doing so? What
explains Mugabe's support when his people are dying? And how can Zimbabwe's
neighbor states--Botswana, South Africa, and others--pressure Mugabe to step
down? What can the U.S. or the U.N. do?

Ryan Hill: One of the border jumpers who we interviewed made the point that
Zimbabweans are too tired to stage an uprising. It also seemed like the MDC has
lost some of its support. Some of the Zimbabweans we spoke with told us that
when Tsvangirai called for sanctions on Zimbabwe he disenfranchised a lot of the
Zimbabweans who were supporting him. As far as the neighboring states, they
refuse to criticize Mugabe, and it looks like now China will block the security
council from censuring Mugabe.

_______________________

Raleigh, N.C. Are there any NGOs currently helping the Zimbaweans?

Ryan Hill: There are several, but the lack of fuel, resources, and the
government crackdown has made it difficult to work there.

_______________________

Newton Falls, Ohio: How can I get a copy of the documentary?

Ryan Hill: You can contact Wide Angle directly,
http://www.pbs.org/wnet/wideangle/

_______________________

Ottawa, Canada: In your opinion, can the Commonwealth be an effective force
against Mugabe? If so, what can the Commonwealth do in order to help the people
of Zimbabwe end the rule of this tyrant?

Peter Hutchens: The best thing the Commonwealth can do is to continue to call
upon African nations, especially South Africa, to end their policy of "silent
diplomacy" towards Zimbabwe. Unless Zimbabwe's neighbors speak out against the
injustices in Zimbabwe, Mugabe will continue to take comfort in having silent
"allies" on all sides.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Hello producers of the show ...I happened to watch the
program you aired last night on WETA. It was really a good one. However I, as an
African immigrant here in the U.S., have a major thing to comment on. I know it
is impossible to present a show that would satisfy all viewers. However, unless
major issues pertinent to the matter at hand are discussed and emphasized your
show would be one side show/or a one man show.

You have covered most of the problems with your guest, Prof. George from
American University. But you failed to raise the issue of "GOOD GOVERNANCE" in
relation to the U.S. and British appointed African leaders that are in power for
years. To mention a few (Ugandan president Musevine, Ethiopian leader Zenawie,
..) these and other leaders are put and supported by U.S. and British
governments. They are called African new democratic leaders ..! I don't know why
every body shies away from this issue. The greatest problem in Africa is not
poverty or lack of resource or disease; it is the leaders-leaders that are put
by western governments, namely the U.S. and U.K., period!

You tell Africans that they have bad leaders and on the side you deal with these
leaders, calling them democrats. This is the major problem. Look at the above
African leaders I mentioned; they have been in power for the last 15 years. What
kind of democratic leader stays in power for so long? How would we like to have
Bush for 15 years or Clinton for 15 years? This is all hypocrisy. The western
world has no earnest will for third world to get out of its problem. And this is
a well founded statement if you are honestly willing to examine what they are
actually doing.

There is one other thing that bothers me most too. Now, your show is directed
towards understanding the world better- after September 11. You see, it took
September 11 incident for even you people to launch such interest . And our
biggest concern these days in the "civilized" world is that how can we fight
terrorism- or eliminate terrorism ideology. I am afraid in the pattern we are
handling the rest of the world I don't think that is possible. It is not a
mystery that the western world is trying to change the rest of the world's
ideology, values, etc. As long as people are forcefully given appointed leaders,
their culture, values are degraded and disrespected they tend to seek every
outlet possible to fight back..

I hope you will entertain these issues by probably presenting another concerned
officials. Thanks.

Ryan Hill: Thanks for your remarks. As an African immigrant living in the U.S.,
you obviously have first hand experience with these issues. As far as the point
you raise about the other African leaders, Musevine and Zenawie, I don't know
their story or why they have stayed in power for so long. Our show was mainly
dealing with Zimbabwe and Botswana and it is widely accepted that Mugabe has
rigged elections, and he has vowed to stay in power until his death.

_______________________

Arlington, Tex.: What explains Botswana's success? Did they just get lucky with
good rulers or are there more solid foundations like civil or social
institutions that promote stability or progress in the country?

Ryan Hill: Botswana has several things going for it. First, the government
prides itself on the lack of corruption. Second, the guest on our show, George
Ayattey raised an excellent point about how Botswana has taken tribal systems
that were in place, and incorporated them into the modern-day democracy. Those
factors in addition to the wealth from diamonds have all contributed to
Botswana's success.

_______________________

Los Angeles, Calif.: The interview with Bill Moyers talking to the author or
"Africa Unchained" was very insightful. The author was well versed in African
history and culture. I was very impressed by his knowledge. Can you discuss in
brief you opinion about this author and his interview by Mr. Moyer?

Ryan Hill: Thanks for your comments. As the producers of the show, we thought
Bill Moyers did an excellent job interviewing George Ayattey and that his
responses were insightful and a great complement to the show.

Peter Hutchens: Our goal in making this film was to spark dialogue about the
Zimbabwean situation, and the interview with George Ayattey accomplished just
that. Whether one agrees with all of his arguments or not, it is hard to argue
that the African people and the international community need to hold African
leaders to a higher standard.

_______________________

Boulder, Colo.: Having just returned from an area in South Africa that borders
Zimbabwe, this is all so fresh in my heart. The program is really an eye-opener
for those Americans who are not aware of these happenings. If the folks from
Zimbabwe that cross the border do get employment in Botswana, how do they get
money and things back to their families? In South Africa it seemed very
difficult.

Peter Hutchens: It is difficult for the Zimbabwean border jumpers to bring
money, food, and clothes back into their country. Many border jumpers cross
through the electric fence, others find ways to go through legal checkpoints,
and still others send money with Zimbabweans who have made a business out of
transporting money back and forth across the border. The problem is that if
Zimbabweans are caught and deported in Botswana, they must return home
empty-handed.

_______________________

Alabama: Great film on a tragic situation. Do you know what has happened to Mary
or Solomon?

Ryan Hill: Three weeks ago I was in Botswana for some additional shooting on the
film, and the day before I left got a call from Mary. She now has a work permit
and is working in the home of a Botswanan- which at first seemed like good news,
but she's working long hours seven days a week and told me she can't go on.
She's not sure what the next step is, but I'm hoping she can find a job where
her employers will treat her better. As far as Solomon, when we said goodbye to
him after filming we knew we'd never see him again. One of the most difficult
parts about making documentaries.

_______________________

Silver Spring, Md.: Congratulations on a fantastic documentary! We were
wondering what kind of challenges you had to overcome in the field while
filming? Any funny stories?

Ryan Hill: Thanks for your comments. "Border Jumpers" was a challenging story to
shoot because it's such a sensitive issue in Botswana. The government has been
burned by journalists who don't care about telling a balanced story, rather-
they see the fence, the army patrols, and the deportations, and write a
sensational story about the xenophobia. Once we gained a filming permit, the
shooting was both fun and challenging, but it was most rewarding to spend time
with our characters, namely Solomon and Mary. For more information about the
production you can check http://borderjumpers.net/

_______________________

Albany, N.Y. : Your movie showed the reality of Zimbabwean life. I wish there
were more programs that show what Zimbabweans are experiencing. One would think
that the leaders of Botswana and South Africa would put pressure on the
Zimbabwean government to help bring about change, instead they continue to
handle the Zimbabwean government with kids gloves. They never blame the
Zimbabwean president when it matters, when they are in International
conferences, e.g the G-8. Mbeki never says a word against Mugabe. I think
Botswana and South Africa need to bear the burden of not speaking up to pressure
Mugabe to step down. But as you showed in your movie its the little man who
bears the brunt of bad governance. Do you make other movies on the region?

Ryan Hill: We haven't yet, but it's a fascinating part of the world and we would
both like to do more work there. Thanks for your comments.

_______________________

Garden City, N.Y.: My family and I lived in Zimbabwe during what were maybe the
'golden years', from 1992-97, when there was so much progress, so much hope, and
a growing confidence in the development of good relations between the races. We
look with horror and immense sadness at what Mugabe is doing to his people, and
feel so helpless. In your talks with the people you met, did you get any sense
of what the outside world could do to help, anything?

Ryan Hill: Thanks for your comments. The first time I went to Zimbabwe was in
1998 and I saw what you were talking about. We left with the impression that the
biggest thing the outside world could do would be to pressure SADC to put
pressure on Mugabe.

_______________________

Cincinnati, Ohio: I saw the program last night, and thought it was well done.
One question that was left lingering in my mind - do you think that, in airing
this film, you will inadvertently have endangered any of the Border Jumpers you
interviewed?

Peter Hutchens: Coming from a country where journalists can be jailed for up to
a year for speaking out against the government, many Zimbabweans were reluctant
to be filmed. Others, like Mary and Solomon, welcomed the opportunity to tell
their story -- a story that has been lost to the outside world.

Ryan Hill: This was a concern of ours while filming, which is why we changed the
names of characters. The outspoken border jumpers at the Center for Illegal
Immigrants are currently seeking asylum and have no intention of returning to
Zimbabwe while Mugabe is in power.

_______________________

New York, N.Y.: What is the racial and ethnic composition of the Botswana owning
class that employs Zimbabwean workers?

Peter Hutchens: We found that the majority of Botswanans who employ Zimbabwean
workers were black Africans. Botswana is quite a racially diverse country,
though, and there are also many whites, Indians, Chinese, and other groups
represented.

_______________________

Denver, Colo.: I watched Border Jumpers last night and was very moved by it.
Thank you for telling the story. I am a Zimbabwean now living in the U.S. and
would like to find out how I can buy a copy of this documentary.

Ryan Hill: You can contact Wide Angle athttp://www.pbs.org/wnet/wideangle/

_______________________

Maryland: Who should be in charge of policing Africa in the event of another
Rwanda? Can Africans do it themselves yet? It seems that there is always a
genocide in Africa.

Peter Hutchens: Recent flashpoints like Sudan and Zimbabwe have given the
African Union an opportunity to step up and take responsibility over the affairs
of the continent. However, the fact that the African Union continues to ignore
the problems in Zimbabwe suggests that the Africa still has a long way to go.

_______________________

Ryan Hill: Thanks so much for watching WIDE ANGLE and for your interest in the
plight of the Zimbabwean border jumpers.

_______________________

Peter Hutchens: Thanks for watching the show, and for asking such great
questions. I hope this dialogue is just one of many to come about the future of
Zimbabwe and African leadership.

_______________________

Editor's Note: Washingtonpost.com moderators retain editorial control over Live
Online discussions and choose the most relevant questions for guests and hosts;
guests and hosts can decline to answer questions.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 26, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal-Immigration Roundup Confronts Staggering Numbers;
Homeland Security Aims to Capture 460,000 Fugitives

BYLINE: Elliot Spagat and Laura Wides, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1137 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Government agents pile into unmarked sport-utility vehicles and dark sedans in
the basement garage of downtown's federal building. Their assignment: Crash the
homes of  illegal immigrants and deport them.

It is an increasingly common scene across the nation. The federal government
wants to catch the nearly half-million immigrants who either have ducked
deportation orders or are targets for removal because they have been convicted
of a crime.

The size and complexity of the mission is staggering. Even as the government
pours millions of dollars into enforcement, each year the number of new
fugitives far exceeds the number of immigrants removed.

One spring evening in San Diego shows why.

The agents were eager to start knocking on doors: Each wore a bulletproof vest
with "POLICE" emblazoned on the back or a blue Department of Homeland Security
jacket. But only four were full-time agents with Fugitive Operations, a unit
founded in 2002 to track these immigrants; the other nine either worked days
processing deportation orders or were Border Patrol agents on overtime. The
cobbled-together teams had five hours to finish the job.

By night's end, they had apprehended six of their 16 targets, with a seventh
picked up the next morning. Given that the teams fan out just several times a
week, it was barely a dent in the region's backlog of 5,000 cases.

Orders from Washington are to pursue violent criminals, a small fraction of all
the fugitives, but the San Diego agents catch whomever they can. Four of their
seven had convictions unrelated to immigration -- for crimes including battery,
theft, sex with a minor and drunken driving.

Alvina Martinez, 54, a homemaker whose husband works in construction, had no
such record. Martinez was deported in 1998 for being in the United States
illegally; a second offense would make her a felon. Agents talked their way into
her small, single-story home and deported her to Mexico the next day.

San Diego has one of 18 Fugitive Operations teams and, with more than 550
apprehensions, ranks near the top of the 22 cities where Homeland Security
agents have caught fugitives since October. The others include Los Angeles,
Boston, Miami and Chicago.

In all, Homeland Security wants to round up about 460,000 fugitive immigrants,
about 80,000 of whom have criminal records unrelated to immigration. In May, the
Associated Press asked for a database with details about these fugitives, but
Homeland Security has not ruled on that Freedom of Information Act request.

Authorities hope to eliminate their backlog by 2009.

Federal agents will have detained nearly 10,000 fugitives during the fiscal year
that will end on Sept. 30. It is impossible to know how many of those deported
have already returned to the United States. During the same period, an estimated
40,000 new fugitives were added -- so the list has actually grown longer.

The explanation is straightforward.

Homeland Security has  about 19,500 detention beds nationwide. Although local
jails hold some of the overflow, overwhelmed immigration courts often release
immigrants who are challenging their deportation and trust they will show up for
hearings.

Some do. And many who are captured and threatened with deportation voluntarily
return home. But agents acknowledge it is not surprising many skip hearings that
likely would lead to their removal.

In April, the department expanded a pilot program to jail immigrants while their
cases wind their way through the courts. That effort, begun in Connecticut and
expanded to Atlanta and Denver, has drawn criticism from immigration lawyers who
say it punishes noncriminals who are simply exercising their right to due
process.

Authorities are also experimenting with new ways to track people. In June,
Homeland Security began using electronic ankle bracelets in eight cities,
including Denver, San Francisco and Portland, Ore. The department launched a
limited program under which immigrants out on bail or on parole check in by
telephone, with voice-recognition software verifying they are who they say they
are and that they are calling from home.

When immigrants do go on the lam, Fugitive Operations agents must pursue "this
population that has been out there flouting the law," said Victor Cerda, who
oversees detention and removals at Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs
Enforcement division.

Agents spend hours building dossiers: staking out homes to determine when best
to come knocking, interviewing apartment managers, checking credit reports and
loan applications. Some agents rely on ruses to enter people's homes, knowing
they are unlikely to be allowed in if they explain their true intentions. It is
called "knock and talk."

Homeland Security's $4 billion spending plan for fiscal 2005 seeks $69 million
for Fugitive Operations, a fourfold increase from the $17 million this fiscal
year. The department wants to expand the number of squads, each typically with
five members, from 18 to 48 nationally. Homeland Security officials said that,
as a matter of policy, they do not reveal where those squads are stationed.

Agents used to track the freshest cases first, figuring they would be easiest to
find, said Doris Meissner, President Bill Clinton's top immigration official.

"I think it is, by and large, a losing battle to go out and try to find people,"
said Meissner, now senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute in
Washington.

The top priority has become getting felons -- not those with simple immigration
law violations.

Homeland Security officials say felons account for 47 percent of the fugitives
removed this year, short of their goal of 70 percent. About 11 percent of
apprehended fugitives have committed sex offenses or other violent crimes, and
about 15 percent were drug offenders.

Some critics say the government relies too much on enforcement instead of
addressing the fundamental reasons immigrants come. In some cases, the critics
say, the government is stoking anti-immigrant sentiment.

"By trying to characterize undocumented immigrants as criminals, it makes it
easier to scapegoat them," said Gail Pendleton, associate director of an
immigration project at the National Lawyer's Guild.

Jaime Garcia Zuñiga, 23, is the kind of criminal Homeland Security wants to
deport. The Mexican, who has been convicted of fighting in public and of having
sex with a minor, was perhaps the biggest catch for the San Diego agents that
evening.

While agents were chatting with someone who answered the door, Garcia removed a
screen and sneaked out through the window of his first-floor apartment.

"We've got a runner!" one agent shouted.

Agents cornered Garcia in an alley, where he surrendered.

The agents returned to their cars, still catching their breath -- one down, more
than 400,000 to go.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              74 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 5, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospitals Won't Have To Ask Immigrant Status;
U.S. Releases Aid to Help Cover ER Costs

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 738 words


The U.S. government has launched a four-year, $1 billion program to pay some of
the emergency room costs of treating illegal immigrants, but it has backed off
plans to require hospitals to ask patients about their immigration status.

The new money is part of the 2003 Medicare act and became available Friday, the
start of the fiscal year. Hospitals welcomed the funds, because they are often
stuck with the bill for caring for uninsured people, including many unauthorized
immigrants. But the program had become mired in controversy because of the
proposed rule that hospitals determine which of their patients were in the
country illegally.

"Hospitals are in the business of taking care of patients, not posing as cops
for other agencies," said Dawn Marks, a spokeswoman for the Maryland Hospital
Association, one of many medical and immigrant organizations that had concerns
about the proposal.

The program will provide up to $167,000 annually for each of the next four years
for hospitals in the District, $1.33 million for Maryland hospitals and $2.25
million for those in Virginia.

The new federal aid reflects the dilemmas faced by officials and institutions in
dealing with the nation's growing population of illegal immigrants, believed to
number 8 million or more. Hospitals are required to treat anyone in need of
emergency medical attention, but many illegal immigrants lack insurance. The
cost of providing them with health care has become severe for some medical
facilities, especially those in southern border states.

To address that issue, Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) pushed to include the new $1
billion in funds in the Medicare bill. The federal Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, which would administer the money, recently issued the
proposed regulations that would have required hospitals to identify the illegal
immigrants receiving health care. Their goal, they said, was to ensure that the
funds were being spent properly.

But numerous hospitals balked, saying patients might stop going to medical
facilities for fear that their immigration information would find its way into
the hands of law enforcement officials.

"What you don't want is people not seeking care when they really need it. That
endangers the health of all of us -- people running around with infectious
diseases and so on," said Bill Moss, president of Potomac Hospital in
Woodbridge.

Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Medicare centers, said in a letter to
some hospitals Friday that there was so much criticism of the regulations that
officials instead would come up with a new "indirect" method to determine
reimbursement.

"Providers will not be asked -- and should not ask -- about a patient's
citizenship status in order to receive payment under this program," he said.

Although hospitals praised the change, it was criticized by some politicians and
advocates for lower immigration.

"Who's watching out for the American people? This is incredible. You've got the
hospitals watching out for the illegal immigrants and the administration going
along with it," said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), who had fought to require
hospitals to collect information on undocumented patients and make it available
to law enforcement officials.

"The real solution is stopping illegal immigration -- not letting it happen,
then trying to clean up the mess afterwards," said Mark Krikorian of the Center
for Immigration Studies, which favors tighter immigration enforcement.

Officials at several hospitals and hospital associations in the Washington area
said they have no idea what the local facilities spend each year caring for
illegal immigrants because patients generally are not asked about their status.
But they said the new federal money will represent only a small share of what
the institutions spend on "charity cases," a category that consists of the poor
and the uninsured and includes both citizens and noncitizens.

For example, Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring shouldered about $6.3 million
in unreimbursed costs this year for charity cases, spokesman Mike Hall said.

Robert A. Malson, president of the District of Columbia Hospital Association,
said the positive thing about the new program is that it shows that the
government recognizes the obligations of hospitals to treat people regardless of
their income or status.

"The difficulty, from our perspective, is that the allocation for D.C. is
woeful," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              75 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 5, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospitals Won't Have to Ask Immigrant Status;
U.S. Releases Aid -- Including Millions for Region -- to Help Cover ER Costs

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 738 words


The U.S. government has launched a four-year, $1 billion program to pay some of
the emergency room costs of treating illegal immigrants, but it has backed off
plans to require hospitals to ask patients about their immigration status.

The new money is part of the 2003 Medicare act and became available Friday, the
start of the fiscal year.

Hospitals welcomed the funds, because they are often stuck with the bill for
caring for uninsured people, including many unauthorized immigrants. But the
program had become mired in controversy because of the proposed rule that
hospitals determine which of their patients were in the country illegally.

"Hospitals are in the business of taking care of patients, not posing as cops
for other agencies," said Dawn Marks, a spokeswoman for the Maryland Hospital
Association, one of many medical and immigrant organizations that had concerns
about the proposal.

The program will provide up to $167,000 annually for each of the next four years
for hospitals in the District, $1.33 million for Maryland hospitals and $2.25
million for those in Virginia.

The new federal aid reflects the dilemmas faced by officials and institutions in
dealing with the nation's growing population of illegal immigrants, believed to
number 8 million or more. Hospitals are required to treat anyone in need of
emergency medical attention, but many illegal immigrants lack insurance. The
cost of providing them with health care has become severe for some medical
facilities, especially those in southern border states.

To address that issue, Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) pushed to include the new $1
billion in funds in the Medicare bill.

The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which would administer
the money, recently issued the proposed regulations that would have required
hospitals to identify the illegal immigrants receiving health care. Their goal,
they said, was to ensure that the funds were being spent properly.

But numerous hospitals balked, saying patients might stop going to medical
facilities for fear that their immigration information would find its way into
the hands of law enforcement officials.

"What you don't want is people not seeking care when they really need it. That
endangers the health of all of us -- people running around with infectious
diseases and so on," said Bill Moss, president of Potomac Hospital in
Woodbridge.

Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Medicare centers, said in a letter to
some hospitals Friday that there was so much criticism of the regulations that
officials instead would come up with a new "indirect" method to determine
reimbursement.

"Providers will not be asked -- and should not ask -- about a patient's
citizenship status in order to receive payment under this program," he said.

Although hospitals praised the change, it was criticized by some politicians and
advocates for lower immigration.

"Who's watching out for the American people? This is incredible. You've got the
hospitals watching out for the illegal immigrants and the administration going
along with it," said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), who had fought to require
hospitals to collect information on undocumented patients and make it available
to law enforcement officials.

"The real solution is stopping illegal immigration -- not letting it happen,
then trying to clean up the mess afterwards," said Mark Krikorian of the Center
for Immigration Studies, which favors tighter immigration enforcement.

Officials at several hospitals and hospital associations in the Washington area
said they have no idea what the local facilities spend each year caring for
illegal immigrants because patients generally are not asked about their status.
But they said the new federal money will represent only a small share of what
the institutions spend on "charity cases," a category that consists of the poor
and the uninsured and includes both citizens and noncitizens.

For example, Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring shouldered about $6.3 million
in unreimbursed costs this year for charity cases, spokesman Mike Hall said.

Robert A. Malson, president of the District of Columbia Hospital Association,
said the positive thing about the new program is that it shows that the
government recognizes the obligations of hospitals to treat people regardless of
their income or status.

"The difficulty, from our perspective, is that the allocation for D.C. is
woeful," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              76 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 11, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

New Base To Monitor Border in Northeast

BYLINE: Michael Hill, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: PLATTSBURGH, N.Y.


The federal government opened a base Friday where airplanes, helicopters and
high-speed boats will set out to intercept terrorists, drug smugglers and
illegal immigrants trying to cross the nation's vast northeastern border.

The new Air and Marine Operations facility, formerly an Air Force base in New
York's northeastern corner, is one of five that will be responsible for
tightening surveillance along the U.S.-Canadian border and will cover a heavily
wooded stretch from western New York to Maine.

Department of Homeland Security helicopter pilot Dennis Del Grosso said agents
are looking for anything, from low-flying planes trying to skirt radar to drug
runners riding snowmobiles.

"Vehicles, boats and airplanes that carry drugs or illegal immigrants can just
as easily carry terrorists or weapons of mass destruction," said Charles E.
Stallworth II, director of Air and Marine Operations.

Two planes and two helicopters will be based at the new facility, along with
about 40 people. Boats will regularly patrol Lake Champlain and other waterways,
Homeland Security officials said. Planes also will patrol Lake Ontario and
western Lake Erie.

On a demonstration helicopter run Friday, pilots flew a quick, low loop to a
stretch of border barely discernible amid an endless expanse of woods. But
flying at 580 feet, those aboard could zero in on cars on the highway and people
golfing or mowing lawns.

The first such facility opened in August in Bellingham, Wash. Others are
tentatively planned for near Detroit, Grand Forks, N.D., and Great Falls, Mont.

Stallworth said the five bases, when operational, will let agents respond within
an hour anywhere along the border's more than 4,000 miles.

The northern bases are part of a larger effort by homeland security officials to
watch the largely unprotected border more closely after the terrorism of Sept.
11, 2001.

Periodic patrols are made by radar-equipped planes from Plattsburgh and other
points, but the permanent stations are designed to allow regular surveillance.

Similar air patrols have been conducted along the Mexican border for more than
three decades.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              77 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 5, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 552 words


More than 700 people were arrested on immigration violations and thousands more
subjected to FBI interviews in an intense government effort to avert a terrorist
attack aimed at disrupting the election.

As with past unrealized al Qaeda threats, law enforcement officials said
yesterday that they do not  know for sure whether any of those arrests or
interviews foiled an attack.

"It's very hard to prove a negative," Michael J. Garcia, chief of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, said in an interview Thursday. "We did cases and
operations for people we thought posed national security concerns. We didn't
arrest anyone who had a bomb."

For example, ICE agents arrested a 23-year-old Pakistani man in late October who
had illegally entered the United States through Mexico in 2000 and was working
as a fuel tanker truck driver with access to a major U.S. seaport.

The man, who was not further identified, is charged with making false statements
about how he entered the country and remains under investigation for any links
to terrorism.

He was one of the 237 people arrested in October on immigration violations, for
a total of more than 700 since the enforcement effort began last year, Garcia
said. "It was a broad approach that led us to have a very disruptive effect, we
believe," he said.

Although the election season passed without an attack, officials say al Qaeda
remains a dangerous foe intent on striking the United States again. The day
after the election, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft told his senior staff
members to not let down their guard.

The Jan. 20 presidential inauguration heads the list of upcoming high-profile
events that officials say could draw terrorist interest. Others include the Feb.
6 Super Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla., and the December holiday travel season,
during which  several threats were made last year against transatlantic flights.

A new survey indicates the number of foreign graduate students enrolling for the
first time at American universities is down 6 percent this year -- the third
straight decline after a decade of growth. Educators worry that the trend is
eroding America's position as the world's leader in higher education.

The fall was not as steep as feared, considering that applications last spring
were down 32 percent. American universities staved off a comparable decline in
enrollment by admitting a higher percentage of students and persuading more
admitted students to enroll.

But the results of the survey of 122 member institutions by the Council of
Graduate Schools are still alarming to educators. American universities are
highly dependent on foreign students for teaching and research help,
particularly in the sciences and in engineering, a field in which foreigners
make up  50 percent of graduate enrollment.

More than two-thirds of schools reported some decline. The steepest drops were
in business (12 percent), sciences/agriculture (10 percent) and engineering (8
percent), although physical sciences rose 6 percent.

Experts believe a major factor is the difficulty -- or at least perceived
difficulty -- of getting student visas under tightened U.S. immigration
policies. Other factors include anti-Americanism abroad, and increasing
competitiveness from universities in India, China and Europe.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              78 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 5, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Vote

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 354 words


BY A COMFORTABLE margin, the residents of Arizona voted for Proposition 200 this
week, a ballot measure designed to slow the flow of illegal immigrants into
their state. If it isn't struck down in court, the law will oblige federal
clerks to check the citizenship documents of people registering to vote or
applying for state and local benefits. In addition, the law requires public
employees to report illegal immigrants to the federal authorities or face
misdemeanor charges.

While intended to prevent the distribution of welfare, Proposition 200 leaves
open the question of what other "public benefits" might be included. Do public
hospitals count? Vaccination clinics? During the campaign, opponents of the
measure said the law could be interpreted to mean that a state employee working
in a public park could be charged for failing to turn in  illegal immigrants
having a picnic. Advocates pointed out, on the other hand, that in the absence
of federal enforcement of the law, state enforcement is at least preferable to
the Arizona vigilante groups that have sprung up along the Mexican border.

Particularly if it really does force state employees to demand citizenship
documents from everyone they encounter, the law could well persuade immigrants,
legal and illegal, to leave Arizona for other states, spreading not only the
problem but the frustration that led Arizonans to back Proposition 200 since it
was first proposed.

But illegal immigration is not a problem that can be sensibly dealt with state
by state: The federal government controls the country's borders. President Bush
signaled his interest in immigration reform a year ago, announcing a plan to
introduce a form of temporary work visa, but he dropped the plan almost
immediately after encountering opposition in his own party. Some in Congress,
including most of the Arizona congressional delegation, have supported other
kinds of temporary visas, but none were deemed politically viable before the
election. Now that the election is over, it is time to end this particular state
revolution before it starts -- by solving the problem in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              79 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 14, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

In Europe, a Radical as Elusive as Smoke;
'Mohamed the Egyptian,' Implicated in Madrid Attacks, Used Border Weaknesses to
Escape Discovery

BYLINE: Craig Whitlock, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 2324 words

DATELINE: SAARBRUECKEN, Germany


Shortly after departing this southwestern German city on a Paris-bound train, a
mysterious foreigner was pulled aside by police at the French border. The
passenger claimed to be Palestinian, but carried no identification. He wouldn't
say where he was going, or why.

Assuming they had caught an illegal immigrant looking for a better life in
Europe, German authorities jailed the Arabic-speaking man in June 1999 and
prepared to deport him. But they were unable to confirm his identity or figure
out where to send him, so they moved him to a loosely supervised asylum camp for
undocumented immigrants. Officials there paid little attention when he vanished
two weeks before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States.

The man who would later be code-named "Mohamed the Egyptian" by his Islamic
radical friends resumed his illegal travels across Europe in 2001, taking
advantage of the continent's open borders to move freely among Germany, Spain,
France, Italy and possibly other countries.

Over the next three years, investigators say, he recruited volunteers for
suicide missions, frequented fundamentalist mosques and played a key role in
planning the biggest terror attack on European soil, the train bombings in
Madrid on March 11 this year.

All along, Mohamed -- whose legal name is Rabei Osman Sayed Ahmed -- was able to
dodge police and counterterrorism officials in at least three countries. They
repeatedly put him on watch lists under a variety of names, but failed to figure
out what he was up to, according to interviews with European investigators and a
review of court and immigration documents.

"I know who they are, but they don't know who I am," the former Egyptian army
officer said to a friend in Milan this past June, shortly before he was arrested
by Italian police, who had been recording his conversations. "You confuse them,
they won't know where you came from. . . . You're clandestine, but you move
around with no problem."

The case highlights  Europe's weakest defense in its fight against terrorism: As
the continent removes internal barriers to trade and travel, Islamic militants
find it easier to move around undetected. When they do attract notice, cell
members can often stay a step ahead of the law by changing their names or
slipping across borders, aided by long-standing bureaucratic and legal obstacles
that prevent European counterterrorism officials from working together more
closely.

"They are able to exploit the weaknesses that exist in our system," said Joerg
Ziercke, president of the Bundeskriminalamt, Germany's federal law-enforcement
agency. "They change routes, go across borders. We must close the gaps that we
have in our information systems, and we must ensure that terrorists do not use
one country as a haven while they are acting in another country."

European leaders have moved to address the vulnerabilities with such measures as
common legal standards that make it easier to issue arrest warrants and
extradition orders across the continent. They strengthened the cross-border
police agency Europol. But many reforms remain unimplemented and many officials
retain their long-standing reluctance to share sensitive information with
neighboring countries.

For instance, nine years after a bomb went off in a Paris Metro station, killing
seven people, French officials are still trying to extradite a prime suspect in
the case, Rachid Ramda, who was arrested in Britain. His case remains tied up in
the British court system.

Another breakdown in cooperation surfaced last month, when Spanish police said
the ringleader of a cell suspected of plotting  to blow up the Supreme Court
building in Madrid was being held in a Swiss jail. At first, Swiss authorities
denied they had custody of the suspect, Mohamed Achraf, but then acknowledged
they did.

Swiss intelligence officials later said they had suspected Achraf of ties to
Islamic radicals in Spain but didn't notify Swiss police or the Spanish
government. Swiss Justice Minister Christoph Blocher blamed the mix-up on "an
information breakdown."

Antonio Vitorino, former European commissioner for justice and home affairs,
called the Madrid bombings "a wake-up call" that underscores the need to
eliminate old rivalries among the many intelligence and law-enforcement agencies
in Europe that fight terrorism.

"We cannot fix this overnight," Vitorino said to group of journalists at a
dinner in Brussels last summer, shortly before leaving office. "The sharing of
intelligence among member states is still far from desirable. . . . We Europeans
are all equally targeted by the terrorist threat, and we all should be equally
involved in fighting it."

The asylum camp in Lebach, Germany, has enough cinder-block apartments to house
about 1,500 immigrants. They are mainly North Africans, Turks and Palestinians.
Most stay a few months as they wait for German authorities to decide whether
they can remain in the country for the long term.

On Sept. 13, 2000, a man calling himself Mohamed Abdul Hadi Fayad arrived at the
camp after spending a year in jail and quickly assumed a leadership role among
the residents. He presented their grievances to camp authorities. He spoke
Arabic, English and Spanish, which made him useful as an interpreter. He also
put together a makeshift mosque and led prayers during Ramadan.

"He called himself 'the Imam,' " recalled Barbara Paulus, a case worker at the
camp in Lebach, a town of about 22,000  near the regional capital of
Saarbruecken. "We didn't have any problems with him. The others respected him.
He reported their problems and talked to us on their behalf."

Fayad was an  anonymous foreigner who had been arrested a year earlier on his
way to Paris. Soon after the arrest, he requested asylum. Though he had no
papers, he identified himself as a stateless Palestinian who had been living in
Lebanon. He said he arrived in Europe in April 1999 on a flight to Frankfurt and
had been staying with a friend there.

The German government usually grants asylum as a matter of policy to
Palestinians, but officials were unable to verify Fayad's story. Lebanese and
Palestinian authorities said they could not confirm his identity and suspected
he might be North African, according to a German law-enforcement official
involved in the case.

Immigration officials denied Fayad's asylum request. But Germany could not
deport him because officials didn't know where to send him. That situation is
common in Germany, where about one in 20 asylum seekers is unable to verify the
claimed nationality.

With his case in limbo, Fayad remained at the Lebach camp for almost a year.
Residents are forbidden from leaving the local area, but they are not confined
or closely monitored. As a practical matter, camp officials say, there is little
they can do to make sure people stay.

So it didn't strike anyone as unusual when Fayad vanished. He was last seen in
the camp on Aug. 29, 2001, when he came to the main office to pick up his
twice-weekly food rations. Three weeks later, immigration officials notified the
Lebach town hall that Fayad was no longer a resident and crossed his name off
their case list.

"Each month, a lot of people disappear here," Paulus, the case worker, said. "I
don't know how they do it, but each month we have to close a lot of files."

Investigators have since established that Fayad had left the camp before,
traveling across Europe under a variety of identities and passports.

In January 2001, he was seen with Islamic radicals in Madrid, police reported.
Six months later, he applied for a residency permit in the Spanish capital
under the name Rabei Osman el Sayed Ahmed, producing an Egyptian passport as
proof of identity, according to a German law-enforcement official involved in
the case.

On Sept. 6, 2001, a few days after he left Germany for good, he visited the
Egyptian Embassy in Madrid and applied for a duplicate passport, saying he had
lost his old one, the official said. That is a common trick in producing false
identity documents -- the old passport is altered and given to someone else.

Soon after the visit, Ahmed attracted renewed attention in Germany and Spain,
but for different reasons.

In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, German authorities investigated
thousands of fundamentalist Muslims in the country to determine if any had ties
to the Hamburg cell that planned the hijackings.

As part of this sweep, they re-examined the case of the stateless Palestinian
who called himself Mohamed Abdul Hadi Fayad, prompted by people in the Lebach
camp who noted he had disappeared a few days before Sept. 11 and seemed extreme
in his religious beliefs. Investigators later determined he was not connected to
the attacks, German officials said.

Meanwhile, in Madrid, Spanish counter-terrorism officials opened a separate
investigation into Ahmed in December 2001 after they noticed that he was in
frequent contact with members of a suspected cell of Islamic radicals, court
papers show. One month later, Spanish investigators notified German
law-enforcement officials that they had Ahmed under surveillance and requested
information about his background, according to reports compiled by German
diplomats in Madrid.

While Spanish police kept an eye on Ahmed, he worked as a painter in Madrid and
married a Tunisian woman, according to investigators and a former roommate. He
was apparently aware that he was being monitored and tried to keep low.

In a later conversation taped by Italian investigators, Ahmed told a friend that
he spent years planning the Madrid attacks and had to be very cautious.

"In Spain I used different nationalities: Jordan, Egyptian, Palestinian,
Syrian," he said. "Until my friends said it was enough -- I should be careful or
I'll get caught . . . After 9/11, I was forced to move everything from Spain to
Paris, because in Spain, there was a lot of movement from the secret service."

Ahmed left Madrid for Paris in February 2003. French investigators said he spent
five months there, again working as a painter and frequenting a mosque in an
immigrant neighborhood. How often he went is unclear. A cleric at the mosque, a
two-story beige building with bars on the windows, said he didn't recall seeing
Ahmed. "I've been working here for 15 years, but I never knew him," said Ahmed
Abou Hachem.

Few other details have emerged about Ahmed's stay in France. But while he was in
Paris, he again attracted fresh interest in a neighboring country.

In April 2003, German  prosecutors opened an investigation into his activities.
Frauke-Katrin Scheuten, a spokeswoman for the German prosecutor's office, said
the case remained open but declined to say what prompted it.

Ahmed returned to Madrid from Paris in July 2003. Four months later, Spanish
police issued a report warning that they were investigating "the structure of a
possible al Qaeda cell in Spain" headed by Ahmed, and that the cell had "links
to other European countries." It is unclear if the report was shared with other
European countries.  One month after the warning, Ahmed moved on, this time to
Italy.

In Milan, Ahmed sought work again as a painter and shared apartments with other
Egyptian immigrants, moving frequently. He told roommates he was feuding with
his wife in Spain and was worried she would report him to authorities, court
papers show.

Italian authorities were not aware of his presence until April, five months
after he arrived, when they were contacted by Spanish officials.

The Madrid commuter train bombings, which killed 191 people and injured
thousands, touched off a furious investigation by Spanish authorities. The probe
turned up Ahmed's cell phone number in the electronic address books of two
suicide bombers and another suspect.

What followed was a rare case of successful cross-border coordination.
Investigators traced the number and determined the phone was being used in
Italy. They informed Italian authorities, who placed Ahmed under surveillance
and bugged his phone and apartment in Milan.

According to transcripts of the wiretaps contained in an arrest warrant
affidavit, Ahmed bragged to a roommate that "I was the leader of Madrid," adding
that "the Madrid bombings were my project, and those who died as martyrs there
were my beloved friends."

Italian police arrested him June 9, after hearing him discuss plans for another
attack, possibly a suicide assault in Belgium, Italian officials said. In a
computer in his apartment, they found photos of suitcase bombs similar to ones
used in the Madrid attacks.

Investigators say there is still a lot they don't know about Ahmed; for
instance, does he take orders from an international terrorist group and how did
he come to Europe in the first place? They also disagree on whether he directed
the Madrid attacks as he claimed in the wiretaps or if he was inflating his
role.

In court papers, Spanish and Italian prosecutors charged that Ahmed was the
"organizer of the terrorist group responsible for the attacks in Madrid" and
also accused him of being the "coordinator of terrorist cells operating in
various European countries," including Belgium, France and Spain.

Armando Spataro, an Italian prosecutor and chief of the anti-terrorism
investigative unit in Milan, said investigators were convinced Ahmed was a key
figure in Islamic radical circles. "We know he was important because he was the
one who coordinated all the communications," Spataro said. "Only an important
figure could have been able to move as much as he did and keep in contact with
all these people."

Investigators said Ahmed hadn't talked since his arrest. One of his Italian
lawyers, Viviana Bossi, said that he "denies any responsibility regarding all
the charges."

He remains in jail in Milan, where he is fighting attempts to extradite him to
Spain.

Special correspondents Sarah Delaney and Shannon Smiley contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              80 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 14, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Radical Who Remained Just Out of Reach;
Suspect in Madrid Attacks Moved Freely in Europe

BYLINE: Craig Whitlock, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 2322 words

DATELINE: SAARBRUECKEN, Germany


Shortly after departing this southwestern German city on a Paris-bound train, a
mysterious foreigner was pulled aside by police at the French border. The
passenger claimed to be Palestinian, but carried no identification. He wouldn't
say where he was going, or why.

Assuming they had caught an illegal immigrant looking for a better life in
Europe, German authorities jailed the Arabic-speaking man in June 1999 and
prepared to deport him. But they were unable to confirm his identity or figure
out where to send him, so they moved him to a loosely supervised asylum camp for
illegal immigrants. Officials there paid little attention when he vanished two
weeks before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States.

The man who would later be code-named "Mohamed the Egyptian" by his Islamic
radical friends resumed his illegal travels across Europe in 2001, taking
advantage of the continent's open borders to move freely among Germany, Spain,
France, Italy and possibly other countries.

Over the next three years, investigators say, he recruited volunteers for
suicide missions, frequented fundamentalist mosques and played a key role in
planning the biggest terror attack on European soil, the train bombings in
Madrid on March 11 this year.

All along, Mohamed -- whose legal name is Rabei Osman Sayed Ahmed -- was able to
dodge police and counterterrorism officials in at least three countries. They
repeatedly put him on watch lists under a variety of names, but failed to figure
out what he was up to, according to interviews with European investigators and a
review of court and immigration documents.

"I know who they are, but they don't know who I am," the former Egyptian army
officer said to a friend in Milan this past June, shortly before he was arrested
by Italian police, who had been recording his conversations. "You confuse them,
they won't know where you came from. . . . You're clandestine, but you move
around with no problem."

The case highlights Europe's weakest defense in its fight against terrorism: As
the continent removes internal barriers to trade and travel, Islamic militants
find it easier to move around undetected. When they do attract notice, cell
members can often stay a step ahead of the law by changing their names or
slipping across borders, aided by long-standing bureaucratic and legal obstacles
that prevent European counterterrorism officials from working together more
closely.

"They are able to exploit the weaknesses that exist in our system," said Joerg
Ziercke, president of the Bundeskriminalamt, Germany's federal law enforcement
agency. "They change routes, go across borders. We must close the gaps that we
have in our information systems, and we must ensure that terrorists do not use
one country as a haven while they are acting in another country."

European leaders have moved to address the vulnerabilities by adopting such
measures as common legal standards that make it easier to issue arrest warrants
and extradition orders across the continent. But they have had a tough time
reaching consensus on many other proposed reforms. Europe has also struggled to
overcome resistance among counterterrorism agencies to share sensitive
information with neighboring countries or cooperate on prosecutions.

For instance, France has been trying for nine years to extradite Rachid Ramda, a
suspect in the 1995 fatal bombing of a Paris Metro station. Ramda is in custody
in London, but his case remains tied up in the British courts.

Another breakdown in cooperation surfaced last month, when Spanish police said
the ringleader of a cell suspected of plotting to blow up the Supreme Court
building in Madrid was being held in a Swiss jail. At first, Swiss authorities
denied they had custody of the suspect, Mohamed Achraf, but then acknowledged
they did.

Swiss intelligence officials later said they had suspected Achraf of ties to
Islamic radicals in Spain but didn't notify Swiss police or the Spanish
government. Swiss Justice Minister Christoph Blocher blamed the mix-up on "an
information breakdown."

Antonio Vitorino, former European commissioner for justice and home affairs,
called the Madrid bombings "a wake-up call" that underscores the need to
eliminate old rivalries among the many intelligence and law enforcement agencies
in Europe that fight terrorism.

"We cannot fix this overnight," Vitorino said to a group of journalists at a
dinner in Brussels last summer, shortly before leaving office. "The sharing of
intelligence among member states is still far from desirable. . . . We Europeans
are all equally targeted by the terrorist threat, and we all should be equally
involved in fighting it."

The asylum camp in Lebach, Germany, has enough cinder-block apartments to house
about 1,500 immigrants. They are mainly North Africans, Turks and Palestinians.
Most stay a few months as they wait for German authorities to decide whether
they can remain in the country for the long term.

On Sept. 13, 2000, a man calling himself Mohamed Abdul Hadi Fayad arrived at the
camp after spending a year in jail and quickly assumed a leadership role among
the residents. He presented their grievances to camp authorities. He spoke
Arabic, English and Spanish, which made him useful as an interpreter. He also
put together a makeshift mosque and led prayers during Ramadan.

"He called himself 'the Imam,' " recalled Barbara Paulus, a case worker at the
camp in Lebach, a town of about 22,000 near the regional capital of
Saarbruecken. "We didn't have any problems with him. The others respected him.
He reported their problems and talked to us on their behalf."

Fayad was an anonymous foreigner who had been arrested a year earlier on his way
to Paris. Soon after the arrest, he requested asylum. Though he had no papers,
he identified himself as a stateless Palestinian who had been living in Lebanon.
He said he arrived in Europe in April 1999 on a flight to Frankfurt and had been
staying with a friend there.

The German government usually grants asylum as a matter of policy to
Palestinians, but officials were unable to verify Fayad's story. Lebanese and
Palestinian authorities said they could not confirm his identity and suspected
he might be North African, according to a German law enforcement official
involved in the case.

Immigration officials denied Fayad's asylum request. But Germany could not
deport him because officials didn't know where to send him. That situation is
common in Germany, where about one in 20 asylum seekers is unable to verify
their claimed nationality.

With his case in limbo, Fayad remained at the Lebach camp for almost a year.
Residents are forbidden from leaving the local area, but they are not confined
or closely monitored. As a practical matter, camp officials say, there is little
they can do to make sure people stay.

So it didn't strike anyone as unusual when Fayad vanished. He was last seen in
the camp on Aug. 29, 2001, when he came to the main office to pick up his
twice-weekly food rations. Three weeks later, immigration officials notified the
Lebach town hall that Fayad was no longer a resident and crossed his name off
their case list.

"Each month, a lot of people disappear here," said Paulus, the case worker. "I
don't know how they do it, but each month we have to close a lot of files."

Investigators have since established that the man had left the camp before,
traveling across Europe under a variety of identities and passports.

In January 2001, he was seen with Islamic radicals in Madrid, police reported.
Six months later, he applied for a residency permit in the Spanish capital under
the name Rabei Osman el Sayed Ahmed, producing an Egyptian passport as proof of
identity, according to a German law enforcement official involved in the case.

On Sept. 6, 2001, a few days after he left Germany for good, he visited the
Egyptian Embassy in Madrid and applied for a duplicate passport, saying he had
lost his old one, the official said. That is a common trick in producing false
identity documents -- the old passport is altered and given to someone else.

Soon after the visit, Ahmed attracted renewed attention in Germany and Spain,
but for different reasons.

In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, German authorities investigated
thousands of fundamentalist Muslims in the country to determine if any had ties
to the Hamburg cell that planned the hijackings.

As part of this sweep, they reexamined the case of the stateless Palestinian who
turned out to be Ahmed, prompted by people in the Lebach camp who noted he had
disappeared a few days before Sept. 11 and seemed extreme in his religious
beliefs. Investigators later determined he was not connected to the attacks,
German officials said.

Meanwhile, in Madrid, Spanish counterterrorism officials opened a separate
investigation into Ahmed in December 2001 after they noticed that he was in
frequent contact with members of a suspected cell of Islamic radicals, court
papers show. One month later, Spanish investigators notified German law
enforcement officials that they had Ahmed under surveillance and requested
information about his background, according to reports compiled by German
diplomats in Madrid.

While Spanish police kept an eye on Ahmed, he worked as a painter in Madrid and
married a Tunisian woman, according to investigators and a former roommate. He
was apparently aware that he was being monitored and tried to keep low.

In a later conversation taped by Italian investigators, Ahmed told a friend that
he spent years planning the Madrid attacks and had to be very cautious.

"In Spain I used different nationalities: Jordan, Egyptian, Palestinian,
Syrian," he said. "Until my friends said it was enough -- I should be careful or
I'll get caught. . . . After 9/11, I was forced to move everything from Spain to
Paris, because in Spain, there was a lot of movement from the secret service."

Ahmed left Madrid for Paris in February 2003. French investigators said he spent
five months there, again working as a painter and frequenting a mosque in an
immigrant neighborhood. How often he went is unclear. A cleric at the mosque, a
two-story beige building with bars on the windows, said he didn't recall seeing
Ahmed. "I've been working here for 15 years, but I never knew him," Ahmed Abou
Hachem said.

Few other details have emerged about Ahmed's stay in France. But while he was in
Paris, he again attracted fresh interest in a neighboring country.

In April 2003, German prosecutors opened another investigation into his
activities. Frauke-Katrin Scheuten, a spokeswoman for the German prosecutor's
office, said the case remained open now but declined to say what prompted it.

Ahmed returned to Madrid from Paris in July 2003. Four months later, Spanish
police issued a report warning that they were investigating "the structure of a
possible al Qaeda cell in Spain" headed by Ahmed, and that the cell had "links
to other European countries." It is unclear if the report was shared with other
European countries. One month after the warning, Ahmed moved on, this time to
Italy.

In Milan, Ahmed sought work again as a painter and shared apartments with other
Egyptian immigrants, moving frequently. He told roommates he was feuding with
his wife in Spain and was worried she would report him to authorities, court
papers show.

Italian authorities were not aware of his presence until April, five months
after he arrived, when they were contacted by Spanish officials.

The Madrid commuter train bombings, which killed 191 people and injured
thousands, touched off a furious investigation by Spanish authorities. The probe
turned up Ahmed's cell phone number in the electronic address books of two
suicide bombers and another suspect.

What followed was a rare case of successful cross-border coordination.
Investigators traced the number and determined the phone was being used in
Italy. They informed Italian authorities, who placed Ahmed under surveillance
and bugged his phone and apartment in Milan.

According to transcripts of the wiretaps contained in an arrest warrant
affidavit, Ahmed bragged to a roommate that "I was the leader of Madrid," adding
that "the Madrid bombings were my project, and those who died as martyrs there
were my beloved friends."

Italian police arrested him June 8, after hearing him discuss plans for another
attack, possibly a suicide assault in Belgium, Italian officials said. In a
computer in his apartment, they found photos of suitcase bombs similar to ones
used in the Madrid attacks.

Investigators say there is still a lot they don't know about Ahmed; for
instance, does he take orders from an international terrorist group and how did
he come to Europe in the first place? They also disagree on whether he directed
the Madrid attacks as he claimed in the wiretaps or if he was inflating his
role.

In court papers, Spanish and Italian prosecutors charged that Ahmed was the
"organizer of the terrorist group responsible for the attacks in Madrid" and
also accused him of being the "coordinator of terrorist cells operating in
various European countries," including Belgium, France and Spain.

Armando Spataro, an Italian prosecutor and chief of the antiterrorism
investigative unit in Milan, said investigators were convinced Ahmed was a key
figure in Islamic radical circles. "We know he was important because he was the
one who coordinated all the communications," Spataro said. "Only an important
figure could have been able to move as much as he did and keep in contact with
all these people."

Investigators said Ahmed hadn't talked since his arrest. One of his Italian
lawyers, Viviana Bossi, said that he "denies any responsibility regarding all
the charges."

He remains in jail in Milan, where he is fighting attempts to extradite him to
Spain.

Special correspondents Sarah Delaney in Milan and Shannon Smiley contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              81 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 14, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Line Has Been Drawn in the Arizona Sand

BYLINE: Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: Outlook; B03

LENGTH: 1691 words


Arizona voters sent a signal to Washington on Nov. 2. That front-line border
state is feeling besieged and, not surprisingly, sharply divided over illegal
immigration. Though its booming economy is dependent on foreign labor, the costs
of the unauthorized influx from Mexico -- smuggler shootouts, bankrupt
hospitals, a mounting toll of deaths in the desert -- have risen to the point
that many residents just can't take it anymore. So on Election Day, Arizonans
voted decisively -- 56 percent to 44 percent -- in favor of a state ballot
initiative to bar illegal immigrants from receiving government services.

I was deeply disappointed in the outcome: I'd been working for months to help
defeat Proposition 200, both in-state and out. But having spent a good part of
the fall listening to Arizonans talk about immigration, I worry that the message
they sent is being misinterpreted. Far from a simple anti-immigrant backlash,
their vote for the proposition seemed more like a cry for help -- a plea for
federal action -- and that could be heartening news for immigration reformers.
To me, it proves that given half a chance, many people are willing to think hard
about this difficult issue and see that a real solution has to go beyond merely
getting tough.

Whether they cast their ballots for or against Proposition 200, what most
Arizonans seemed to want to tell Washington was: Get to work on a remedy. "The
point is to get the conversation going," said one Phoenix resident I chatted
with at a debate. "It's a federal matter, but they're not paying attention."

The news last week suggested that maybe the administration is ready to do
something. Secretary of State Colin Powell, traveling in Mexico, announced that
immigration reform will be a "high priority" in the second term. President Bush
met with Arizona Sen. John McCain to discuss a congressional strategy. The
challenge now for both the White House and Congress is to interpret the voters'
broad-brush entreaty. Much as they want change, Arizonans -- like other
Americans -- are far from certain about what kind of change would be most
effective. Now it falls to Washington to fill in the blanks: to craft and pass a
legislative package that will truly solve the problem of illegal immigration.

It's no accident that the public's concern about immigration surfaced most
virulently in Arizona. A decade of cracking down on the border in California and
Texas has driven the lion's share of the illegal flow through the Arizona
desert. (The Department of Homeland Security's Tucson Sector accounted for 42
percent of all Border Patrol arrests last year -- some 1,350 a day along just
260 miles of frontier.) And people throughout the state are living with the
consequences: a flood of disruptive transients, soaring service costs and the
deadly violence associated with human smuggling. As far from the border as
Phoenix and even beyond, immigrant smugglers warehouse their clients in filthy
stash houses, then fight over them in gun battles that endanger local residents.

No wonder Arizonans are clamoring for a solution.

But it wasn't Arizonans who turned the state into a national battleground. That
was the work of Washington-based anti-immigration activists looking for an easy
electoral victory. A coalition led by the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, or FAIR, spent nearly half a million dollars to put Proposition 200,
which otherwise would have gotten nowhere, on the ballot. The group made no
secret of its goal: to repeat what happened in California a decade ago, when a
lopsided vote in favor of a similar referendum, Proposition 187, triggered a
national crackdown on immigration.

Nothing seems to frighten FAIR as much as the bipartisan consensus emerging in
Washington in favor of an immigration overhaul. Endorsed by the president and by
senators as different as McCain and Massachusetts Democrat Edward Kennedy, that
reform would combine a guest-worker program with some sort of legalization for
illegal migrants already in the country. The restrictionist coalition set out to
stop this momentum with what it thought would be an overwhelming landslide
telegraphing voters' generalized hostility toward immigrants. FAIR cast the
issue as a matter of "the people" vs. "elites" and urged Arizona voters to tell
evil "special interests" -- business, unions and elected officials, who
allegedly benefit from immigrants at the public's expense -- where to get off.

The nativist activists designed the measure to have maximum public appeal, and
it worked. Who doesn't want to reduce welfare rolls or think people should have
to prove they are citizens in order to vote, as the proposition requires? The
problem is that the initiative is so sloppily written as to be all but
impossible to implement. (Its main provision would deny illegal immigrants
access to "public benefits" -- a phrase interpreted by some proponents as
covering only welfare payments and by others as including any and all
state-provided services.) More importantly, it says nothing one way or the other
about federal immigration policy, making it an extremely blunt if not useless
instrument to influence elected officials in Washington.

The campaign against the initiative didn't get going until it was confirmed that
Proposition 200 would be on the ballot -- just eight weeks before Election Day.
Unlike in California 10 years ago, a broad bipartisan coalition came together to
oppose the measure: Democrats and Republicans, business and labor, grass-roots
ethnic activists and state employees including firefighters and health care
workers. Also unlike in California, where the opposition was heavily Hispanic,
in Arizona it more often showed an Anglo, Republican face. Leading spokespeople
came from the state Chamber of Commerce and the Phoenix business elite. McCain
fought tirelessly against the measure, and the campaign worked as hard in
rock-solid GOP precincts as in the Latino community. Its two main themes: that
the measure would prove too broad to implement and that it would do nothing to
stem illegal immigration.

The effort failed; we didn't, frankly, even bring the vote as close as we would
have liked. And if anything, the emphasis on the measure's unclear wording may
have backfired, making it easier for voters to endorse something they knew would
never be put in place -- allowing them, in effect, to send a cost-free message.

But the "No on 200" campaign was successful in significantly narrowing the
margin in favor of the provision. Early polls predicted passage by a vote of 80
percent to 20 percent. Yet in the end, nearly one-quarter of the electorate was
persuaded to change its mind -- a remarkable achievement, I believe, given the
short campaign and the emotion that invariably surrounds immigration.

Not only that, but the coalition made these inroads by tackling the tough issue
head-on: not evading the topic of illegal immigration or denying voters'
frustration, but rather urging even the angriest Arizonans to think harder about
what would solve the problem. "Proposition 200 will not stop a single illegal
immigrant from crossing the border," the campaign proclaimed, calling on voters
to reject the measure in the name of "real immigration reform."

And ordinary Arizonans did indeed spend two intense months discussing -- in town
hall meetings and op-ed debates, as well as and long, substantive stand-offs on
drive-time radio -- what might actually work to ease the aggravations caused by
the illegal influx. There was no consensus. Even in Arizona, voters don't yet
know enough about the policy options. But proponents and opponents alike mostly
recognize that Proposition 200 will not make for effective enforcement -- after
all, most immigrants come to work, not to vote or get welfare benefits.

Where does that leave federal officials? History teaches several unexpected
lessons about what kind of immigration reform is likely to be effective. Though
California's Proposition 187 was largely invalidated in court, Congress
essentially implemented it on a national scale, denying illegal immigrants all
but the most minimal government services, including emergency room health care
and K-12 education. The cutbacks were popular with voters, but they have done
nothing to stem the tide. Nor has a draconian crackdown on the Southwest border:
Despite a tripling of the number of border agents and a quintupling of their
budget in the last decade, more unauthorized immigrants enter the country now
than before the massive buildup.

Of course, better enforcement is necessary, both on the border and in the
workplace. But we will not regain control of our borders until we also come to
grips with the international forces of supply and demand that drive record
numbers of migrants to our shores. A real solution, both President Bush and
congressional leaders know, requires that we recognize and manage this
inevitable flow -- by means of a guest-worker program backed up by more
effective enforcement.

The good news out of Arizona is that voters can be educated about this. Yes,
they are frustrated by the illegal influx. Yes, they are deeply concerned about
the rule of law, angry about the way it is routinely breached on the border and
elsewhere. The politics of immigration are not unlike the politics of free
trade: There is indeed some disconnect between elite and popular opinion, and
the kinds of reforms that are needed aren't easy to explain to voters.

Still, as the campaign in Arizona shows, reformers need not shrink from the
debate ahead -- the debate the nation will have to have if we are going to fix
our broken immigration system. Concerned as they are, most voters aren't
reflexively anti-immigrant. They don't necessarily favor a crackdown for a
crackdown's sake. What they want is a solution, not an empty gesture, and many
will listen to politicians -- of either party -- who can explain the difference
and deliver on real reform.</body>Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan
Institute, is the editor of "Reinventing the Melting Pot: The New Immigrants and
What It Means to Be American" (Basic Books).

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              82 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 23, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Area Immigration Booming;
Census Finds Steady Flow Despite Economy, 9/11

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1273 words


More than 34 million immigrants now live in the United States, 10 million of
them illegally, according to recent census numbers that show big gains in local
and national foreign-born populations

The Washington-Baltimore area, which has the strongest metropolitan economy in
the nation, now has nearly 1.3 million immigrants, an increase of 379,000 since
2000, according to a report to be released today by the Center for Immigration
Studies.

The flow of people into the country has continued at a significant pace despite
an economic slowdown, which traditionally discourages migration, and despite
restrictions on immigration and more stringent security in the wake of Sept. 11,
2001.

"This data seems to suggest you have an ongoing level of new entries which is
pretty substantial," said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center,
which studies Latino demographics. "It seems to be impervious to the federal
government's efforts to control the border."

The continuously booming immigrant population is reviving some urban areas and
producing record demand for English classes. It is also increasing the ranks of
the uninsured, fueling the debate over granting driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants and provoking complaints when residents notice day laborers
congregating in their neighborhoods.

How to manage the growing population of illegal immigrants also is a political
dilemma. Over the weekend, President Bush promised to revive a controversial
proposal to let some undocumented workers get jobs but not citizenship -- an
idea that draws fire from liberals and conservatives.

Immigrants now make up 12 percent of the U.S. household population, up from 11
percent in 2000, according to the new report, which is based on a Census Bureau
survey taken in March. The number of illegal immigrants has grown by about 2
million since 2000, said the report by the center, which favors restrictions on
new arrivals.

The center's estimates of the illegal immigrant population are close to those of
Jeffrey S. Passel, an Urban Institute demographer who is an expert on
unauthorized migration. The census survey indicates there were 9.1 million
illegal immigrants in March, but it undercounted by 10 percent, according to the
center's demographer, Steven A. Camarota.

Passel said yesterday that he believes there were 9.8 million unauthorized
immigrants in 2003, and the number has grown to 10 million since then.

A spokesman for the federal Department of Homeland Security said the government
estimates that more than 8 million immigrants are in the United States
illegally, with increases of 300,000 to 350,000 people a year.

Passel co-authored an Urban Institute report on undocumented immigrants this
year that said more than two-thirds live in six states -- California, Texas,
Florida, Illinois, New York and New Jersey. It estimated that 175,000 to 200,000
live in Virginia, 120,000 to 150,000 in Maryland, and 25,000 to 50,000 live in
the District.

Those numbers include people who cross the border illegally, people who overstay
legal visas and a small number of people who are awaiting permanent visas, such
as Central Americans eligible for a special legalization program and people who
have applied for asylum.

In southern Fairfax County, where a booming immigrant population lives in the
Mount Vernon Route 1 corridor, the newest arrivals include middle-class people
from Argentina, Bolivia and other South American countries with poor economies.
Many were professional people in their home countries who came here on tourist
visas and compete for low-paying jobs such as babysitters, construction workers,
house cleaners and landscapers.

At Good Shepherd Catholic Church, these middle-class urbanites are a contrast to
rural immigrants from Central America already in the congregation. Although the
new arrivals have hard lives, "there are more parallels from their society to
ours, so it's probably a little easier to assimilate," said Leah Tenorio,
director of Hispanic ministry for Good Shepherd.

Southern Fairfax County has had  such dramatic growth in its immigrant
populations that a new organization called Progreso Hispano was formed three
years ago to offer English classes, legal help and advocacy for legal and
illegal immigrants who otherwise had to travel to Arlington County.

"There's a lot of fraud going on, and they [undocumented immigrants] are being
taken advantage of," said Progreso Hispano's executive director, Lupe
Hittle-Durante. "There are companies that say they will help with people
applying for residency, and they take these people's money and nothing happens
as a result."

Nationally, immigration growth may have dropped slightly since 2002, according
to Passel and University of Michigan demographer William H. Frey. Passel said
his numbers indicate that immigration peaked in the late 1990s through 2002,
then receded to the sizable levels of the mid-1990s, when "a bit over a million"
people a year arrived. Those who come on temporary visas, such as short-term
work permits, account for a disproportionate share of the decline, he said.
"Overall, I'd say there is a downward pull for immigrants since 2002, due to
both post-9/11 enforcement and fewer available jobs, a double-barreled effect,"
said Frey, who did his own analysis of census figures.

Camarota, who argues that immigration once was linked to the business cycle but
no longer appears to be, said what is "still striking is you did not see the big
fall-off that you might have expected given September 11 and immigrant
unemployment," which rose since then. "It's still been a heck of a lot of people
who came just since 2000," he said.

Analysts say that because most legal immigrants come to the United States on
family visas, they are not likely to stay home because of economic troubles
here. "I don't think the increases are surprising given family and social
networks across borders," said Audrey Singer, immigration fellow  at the
Brookings Institution.

Tighter border controls also might be keeping some immigrants in the United
States who do not want to risk going home and trying to return later, analysts
say.

The Washington-Baltimore area remains a strong center of immigration, attracting
both new immigrants and foreign-born residents who relocate from other urban
areas. The region draws many well-off immigrants, but controversies have erupted
in several communities -- lately, Prince William County -- over groups of day
laborers waiting for work.

Enrollment in English classes is brimming at the Chinatown Service Center in the
District, where Juanita Chan's Sunday afternoon class practiced pronunciation
drills in an upstairs classroom at Mount Vernon United Methodist Church. Most
are here legally, sponsored by relatives or employers.

One student, Cui Bao Zhen, 28, came from Guangdong Province in southern China
last year with her 5-year-old daughter and her husband, a chef. Speaking through
a translator, she said that among the reasons she likes living here is that she
does not have to pay school fees for her daughter, as she would in China.

Hong Jun Xu, 28, moved to Chinatown in April from the same province, with his
wife and 7-year-old son. He arrived on a permanent work visa as a chef and hopes
to save enough money to move his family to the suburbs. What he appreciates most
about living in the United States, he said through a translator, is "more
freedom."

He does not have much time to practice English, but he said he knows that it is
his ticket to success. "If I know English," he said, "I can do a lot of things."

Staff writer Mary Beth Sheridan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              83 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 11, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Homeland Security Nominee Kerik Pulls Out;
Ex-Police Official Says He Failed to Pay Taxes for Nanny Who May Have Been
Illegal Immigrant

BYLINE: Mike Allen and Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1028 words


Former New York City police commissioner Bernard B. Kerik withdrew as President
Bush's nominee for secretary of homeland security last night, saying he had not
paid taxes for a domestic worker who may have been an illegal immigrant.

The White House made the announcement in a two-sentence e-mail at 10 p.m. but
did not give any cause beyond saying that Kerik "is withdrawing his name for
personal reasons."

Kerik, 49, elaborated in a written statement, saying that in filling out forms
required for Senate confirmation he "uncovered information that now leads me to
question the immigration status of a person who had been in my employ as a
housekeeper and nanny."

"It has also been brought to my attention that for a period of time during such
employment required tax payments and related filings had not been made," he
wrote.

"Nanny problems" have sunk several high-profile nominations in recent years. In
2001, Linda Chavez withdrew as Bush's first nominee for labor secretary after it
was learned she had housed an illegal immigrant. The departures of Chavez, and
now Kerik, recalled the nomination of Zoe Baird to be President Bill Clinton's
attorney general. Baird withdrew after it became known that she had employed an
illegal immigrant couple and failed to pay Social Security taxes.

Republican officials said the White House counsel's office had asked Kerik about
the matter repeatedly in investigating his background before the nomination was
announced last week. A Republican source said some White House officials found
it highly suspicious that Kerik was not aware of a potential problem with a
nanny who left the country very recently. Employers can face fines and other
sanctions for hiring any of the 8 million to 10 million illegal immigrants who
are estimated to live in this country, and it is also illegal not to pay Social
Security and Medicare taxes for domestic employees.

Because of the past incidents, nanny issues are among the first that
administration officials explore, and among the ones they probe most
aggressively. Administration officials said such concerns have sunk other
potential nominees that Bush has considered over the years in addition to
Chavez.

Even before the nanny issue arose, Democrats had targeted Kerik as the most
vulnerable of Bush's second-term nominations. White House officials realized he
was becoming a lightning rod, although they had thought he would survive.

Democrats were focusing on the quick riches Kerik had accumulated since
resigning in 2002 as police commissioner, a post he held during the 2001
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. Since leaving his city office, he
had received $6.2 million by exercising stock options he received as a
consultant and director for Taser International, a maker of stun guns that did
business with the Department of Homeland Security.

Democrats had raised numerous questions about Kerik's records and
qualifications, including his role in training Iraqi police as interim minister
of interior and senior policy adviser for the Coalition Provisional Authority in
Iraq.

Kerik was expelled from Saudi Arabia in 1984 after a power struggle with the
head of a hospital complex where he helped command the security staff. Kerik was
using surveillance and other techniques to investigate employees' private lives,
which he said was necessary because of Saudi laws prohibiting drinking and
mingling of the sexes in public.

With Kerik at his side, Bush said in announcing the nomination at the White
House on Dec. 3 that his pick was "one of the most accomplished and effective
leaders of law enforcement in America."

In his statement last night, Kerik said he had "initiated efforts to fulfill any
outstanding reporting requirements and tax obligations related to this issue"
but said he realized that disclosure of the issue would generate "intense
scrutiny" that would distract from the missions of the Department of Homeland
Security. Among them is enforcement of the nation's immigration laws.

The disclosure disrupts the swift and orderly schedule Bush had tried to impose
for replacing nine of his 15 Cabinet secretaries after winning reelection last
month.

Former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who had made Kerik commissioner of
corrections and later police, had recommended him strongly to Bush. Giuliani
said in a telephone interview that Kerik had employed the woman recently to take
care of his two young children. Officials would not provide the woman's name or
native country.

"Bernie told me that they really loved her and the kids loved her, but she had
to go back to her country," Giuliani said. He said she returned voluntarily but
would not say what country it was. He did not have the date but said it was
"pretty recently," although he said he believes it was before the nomination.

"When he actually sat down and did the form, he realized there was a real
problem here," the former mayor said. "He hadn't focused on it. There are
personal reasons for it."

Giuliani called Kerik "uniquely qualified" and said he feels "badly for him and
for the president."

The White House released a four-paragraph letter from Kerik to Bush that cited
personal reasons without elaboration. "I cannot permit matters personal to me to
distract from the focus and progress of the Department of Homeland Security and
its crucial endeavors," the letter said. "I personally apologize to you for not
having focused on this earlier."

White House press secretary Scott McClellan said that at about 8:30 p.m., Kerik
had a brief telephone conversation with Bush, who was at the White House for a
holiday party. McClellan said that it was Kerik's decision to withdraw and that
the president "will move as quickly as we can to name a new nominee."

Republican officials said last night that they were grateful the discovery came
as quickly as it did, although they said it was still a huge embarrassment for
Bush. "We took more on faith than we probably should have," said an official
close to the White House. "It was a combination of biography and his close
association with the mayor."

Staff writers Brooke A. Masters and John Mintz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              84 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 12, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Cabinet Nominee Kerik Pulls Out;
Bush's DHS Pick Cites Nanny Issue

BYLINE: Mike Allen and Jim VandeHei, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1012 words


Former New York City police commissioner Bernard B. Kerik withdrew as President
Bush's nominee for secretary of homeland security last night, saying he had not
paid taxes for a domestic worker who may have been an illegal immigrant.

The White House made the announcement in a two-sentence e-mail at 10 p.m. but
did not give any cause beyond saying that Kerik "is withdrawing his name for
personal reasons."

Kerik, 49, elaborated in a written statement, saying that in filling out forms
required for Senate confirmation, he "uncovered information that now leads me to
question the immigration status of a person who had been in my employ as a
housekeeper and nanny."

"It has also been brought to my attention that for a period of time during such
employment required tax payments and related filings had not been made," he
wrote.

"Nanny problems" have sunk several high-profile nominations in recent years. In
2001, Linda Chavez withdrew as Bush's first nominee for labor secretary after it
was learned she had housed an illegal immigrant. The departures of Chavez, and
now Kerik, recalled the nomination of Zoe Baird to be President Bill Clinton's
attorney general. Baird withdrew after it became known that she had employed an
illegal immigrant couple and failed to pay Social Security taxes.

Republican officials said the White House counsel's office had asked Kerik about
the matter repeatedly in investigating his background before the nomination was
announced last week. A Republican source said some White House officials found
it highly suspicious that Kerik was not aware of a potential problem with a
nanny who left the country very recently.

Employers can face fines and other sanctions for hiring any of the 8 million to
10 million illegal immigrants who are estimated to live in this country, and it
is also illegal not to pay Social Security and Medicare taxes for domestic
employees.

Because of the past incidents, nanny issues are among the first that
administration officials explore, and among the ones they probe most
aggressively. Administration officials said such concerns have sunk other
potential nominees, in addition to Chavez, that Bush has considered over the
years.

Even before the nanny issue arose, Democrats had targeted Kerik as the most
vulnerable of Bush's second-term nominations. White House officials realized he
was becoming a lightning rod, although they had thought he would survive.

Democrats were focusing on the quick riches Kerik had accumulated since
resigning in 2002 as police commissioner, a post he held during the 2001
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. Since leaving his city office, he
had earned $6.2 million by exercising stock options he received as a consultant
and director for Taser International, a maker of stun guns that did business
with the Department of Homeland Security.

Democrats had raised numerous questions about Kerik's records and
qualifications, including his role in training Iraqi police as interim minister
of interior and senior policy adviser for the Coalition Provisional Authority in
Iraq.

Kerik was expelled from Saudi Arabia in 1984 after a power struggle with the
head of a hospital complex where he helped command the security staff. Kerik was
using surveillance and other techniques to investigate employees' private lives,
which he said was necessary because of the Saudi laws prohibiting drinking and
mingling of the sexes in public.

With Kerik at his side, Bush said in announcing the nomination at the White
House on Dec. 3 that his pick was "one of the most accomplished and effective
leaders of law enforcement in America."

In his statement  Friday night, Kerik said he had "initiated efforts to fulfill
any outstanding reporting requirements and tax obligations related to this
issue" but said he realized that disclosure of the issue would generate "intense
scrutiny" that would distract from the missions of the Department of Homeland
Security. Among them is enforcement of the nation's immigration laws.

The disclosure disrupts the swift and orderly schedule Bush had tried to impose
for replacing nine of his 15 Cabinet secretaries after winning reelection last
month.

Former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who had made Kerik corrections
commissioner and later police commissioner, had recommended him strongly to
Bush. Giuliani said in a telephone interview that Kerik had employed the woman
recently to take care of his two young children. Officials would not provide the
woman's name or native country.

"Bernie told me that they really loved her and the kids loved her, but she had
to go back to her country," Giuliani said. He said she returned voluntarily but
would not say what country it was. He did not have the date but said it was
"pretty recently," although he said he believes it was before the nomination.

"When he actually sat down and did the form, he realized there was a real
problem here," he said. "He hadn't focused on it. There are personal reasons for
it."

The White House released a four-paragraph letter from Kerik to Bush that cited
personal reasons without elaboration. "I cannot permit matters personal to me to
distract from the focus and progress of the Department of Homeland Security and
its crucial endeavors," the letter said. "I personally apologize to you for not
having focused on this earlier."

White House press secretary Scott McClellan said that at about 8:30 p.m., Kerik
had a brief telephone conversation with Bush, who was at the White House for a
holiday party. McClellan said it was Kerik's decision to withdraw, and that the
president "will move as quickly as we can to name a new nominee."

Republican officials said Friday  night that they were grateful the discovery
came as quickly as it did, although they said it was still a huge embarrassment
for Bush. "We took more on faith than we probably should have," said an official
close to the White House. "It was a combination of biography and his close
association with the mayor."

Staff writers Brooke A. Masters and John Mintz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              85 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 11, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

House Bill Tightens Border Controls

BYLINE: Mike Allen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 752 words


House Republicans approved a package of immigration-control measures yesterday
that would make deportation easier, make   political asylum tougher and exempt
the federal government from environmental laws in building roads and barriers
along U.S. borders.

The bill -- touted as a major anti-terrorism initiative -- is aimed at making it
easier for authorities to keep illegal immigrants out, track down those in the
country and hinder their travel. The measure would impose new requirements on
states to seek proof of applicants' legal residence in issuing driver's
licenses.

If the states do not comply with the new anti-fraud guidelines, driver's
licenses issued in those states cannot be accepted as proof of identity for
boarding airplanes, buying guns or entering federal buildings.

The bill would ask states to require a passport for any noncitizen to obtain a
driver's license, whereas many states now accept documents that are easier to
manufacture. The proposed legislation could have the effect of denying driver's
licenses to millions of undocumented workers, according to experts.

Proponents say the bill would make it harder for potential terrorists to travel
throughout the country and plot attacks.

"This will make it exceptionally difficult for anyone to use a fake I.D. for
federal purposes," said House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Christopher
Cox (R-Calif.).

But some civil liberties groups and other critics say the proposed  standards
would convert state-issued driver's licenses into national identification cards
and lead to more unlicensed and uninsured drivers.

Called the Real ID Act,  the bill is backed by the White House and has a
favorable outlook in the Senate. House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), the chief sponsor,  blocked passage of major
intelligence restructuring legislation late last year until the White House and
GOP leaders promised early consideration of his measures this year.

The bill passed 261 to 161, with all but eight Republicans supporting it and all
but 42 Democrats opposed.

The votes of House members from Maryland and Virginia broke along party lines,
except that Rep. Roscoe G. Bartlett (R-Md.) did not vote and Rep. Rick Boucher
(D-Va.) voted in favor.

During the floor debate, Sensenbrenner brandished a photo of Mohamed Atta, one
of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers, and argued that the law could help head off
attacks.

House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Tex.) said the law would close loopholes that
pose threats "to the security of our homeland and to our success in the war on
terror."

However, Democrats said Republicans were relying on emotions in passing what
they termed draconian new government powers.

"They used all the wedge issues to get this thing passed," Rep. Sam Farr
(D-Calif.) said after the vote.

About 40 states require applicants for driver's licenses to prove their legal
residence. But the National Governors Association and the national group that
represents state motor-vehicle administrators opposed the driver's license
provisions as overly prescriptive, and civil libertarians complained about a
provision that would help states share databases.

Another controversial provision would give the Department of Homeland Security
new power to build roads and barriers along the border with Mexico, exempt from
judicial review as well as environmental, conservation and labor laws.

That measure originally was offered to help the government close a three-mile
gap in a 14-mile fence in the San Diego area, but opponents say it has broader
implications for any road or barrier the government wants to build along the
border with Mexico. The gap, known as Smuggler's Gulch, covers wetlands and an
estuary, and officials want to complete construction of the fence without fear
of litigation.

Senate Republican aides said similar legislation will be introduced in that body
soon and that 50 to 60 senators support its passage.

House Rules Committee Chairman David Dreier (R-Calif.) said the border-security
bill would be followed by a broader revision  of immigration laws over the next
two years to include a guest-worker program, a goal of the White House.

The House-passed bill tightens the grounds on which foreigners can claim
political asylum and expands the grounds on which a suspected terrorist can be
deported. Human rights and some religious groups have asserted that the bill
would severely undermine the government's commitment to protecting people who
have fled persecution.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              86 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 22, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Don't Gloss Over 'Undocumented'

SECTION: Editorial; A14

LENGTH: 121 words


In his Feb. 16 letter on anti-immigrant legislation in Virginia,  J. Walter
Tejada asked what  we will teach our children and how  we can say we are humane
when we deny the rights, privileges and benefits of citizenship to "undocumented
immigrants."

The term "undocumented immigrant" indicates that these people are immigrants,
like  those who arrived at Ellis Island, and merely are undocumented. In fact,
they are in the United States illegally. To use the word "undocumented"
minimizes and even dismisses that fact.

We need to teach our children and tell our friends that the rights, privileges
and benefits of citizenship in the United States are precious and reserved for
its legal citizens.

TELIN W. OZIER

Arlington

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              87 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 23, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Illegal Immigrant Benefits Debated;
Legislation Would Limit Workers' Compensation

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Feb. 22


The Virginia General Assembly is considering a bill that would severely restrict
the workers' compensation benefits available to illegal immigrants.

Supporters, who include the state's manufacturing and auto dealer industries,
said they need the legislation to rein in rapidly rising medical and wage
benefit claims.

Opponents of the bill, including the state chapter of the AFL-CIO and several
advocacy groups for immigrants, said that the bill's backers were exaggerating
the financial harm to businesses and that the legislation would lead to a flood
of lawsuits against companies from injured workers.

Illegal immigrants employed in Virginia are eligible for some benefits if they
are injured on the job. As in about two dozen other states, they can receive
most of their pre-injury wages and 100 percent of their medical treatment. Their
survivors can also receive death benefits to pay for funerals and other expenses
if they are killed in a work-related accident.

Under legislation offered by Del. Kathy J. Byron (R-Lynchburg) and passed by the
House this month, such workers would be ineligible for wage assistance and death
benefits. They would be able to receive medical benefits only, unless they were
able to prove that their employers knew they were in the country illegally.

The bill is the latest attempt in Virginia to scale back illegal immigrants'
access to workers' compensation. In 1999, the Virginia Supreme Court held that
an undocumented immigrant was not entitled to workers' compensation. But a year
later, the General Assembly passed legislation granting them medical and wage
benefits.

Now some lawmakers and other backers of House Bill 2056 say it's time to tighten
the law to reflect the increasing costs of compensation claims in certain
Virginia industries.

Illegal immigration "has come to bite us like you wouldn't believe," said
Charles F. Midkiff, the general counsel for the Virginia Manufacturers
Association, referring specifically to the state's manufacturing industry. "In
the last five years, they've swarmed into every sector including our own, and
it's becoming very problematic."

He said that in some cases, wage benefits over a lifetime could range into the
hundreds of thousands of dollars. "I've got one case  now where the medicals are
at $1.8 million and are projected for another $1.2 million," Midkiff said.

Byron, who voted in 2000 to expand immigrants' access to benefits, said she was
now concerned about cracking down on illegal immigration.

"They are coming into the country illegally. They are being hired illegally.
They are producing the documents illegally. . . . Why are we allowing all this
illegal activity to take place as lawmakers?" Byron said.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service estimated that there were
103,000 illegal immigrants in Virginia in 2000.

Byron's  bill passed a major test Monday evening when the Senate Labor and
Commerce Committee voted 9 to 6 to send it to the Senate floor. If passed by the
full Senate before the assembly adjourns this week, the bill would go to Gov.
Mark R. Warner (D).

The governor's press secretary, Ellen Qualls, said Warner is generally opposed
to scaling back access to such benefits for illegal immigrants but would review
the details of Byron's bill if it comes before him.

Opponents in the legislature questioned the claims about harm to businesses.

"I haven't had one call from any constituents about this being a problem," said
Sen. H. Russell Potts (R-Winchester). "Where are these so-called victims?"

Others said the bill was designed to score political points. "It's easy to
demagogue these people," said Sen. Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax). He added that
many employers were just as guilty of engaging in illegal activity:  "A lot of
these [companies] know they are employing illegals."

Most states offer some kind of medical and wage support that covers illegal
workers, according to the National Employment Law Project and the National
Immigration Law Center, both nonprofit law centers that track immigration
issues. State courts in some other states have specifically held that illegal
workers are fully covered under their states' workers' compensation laws.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              88 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              March 7, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

An Often-Crossed Line in the Sand;
Upgraded Security at U.S. Border Hasn't Deterred Illegal Immigration From Mexico

BYLINE: Kevin Sullivan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1764 words

DATELINE: LAS CHEPAS, Mexico


An ancient blue school bus pulled up at Erlinda Juarez Martinez's house one
recent afternoon, and 20 poor farmers wearing jeans and baseball caps hopped
off. They had traveled for days to reach this village of crumbling adobe homes,
separated from the United States by nothing but a few strands of barbed wire and
a dirty desert breeze.

Every hour, mud-caked buses and pickup trucks dropped off other new loads of
travelers, their backpacks filled with tortillas and toilet paper, their heads
filled with dreams of America. For them, Las Chepas was a locker room of illegal
immigration, a place to find food, water, traveling companions and a guide.

One of the men on the porch was Jesus Alonzo Camacho, 44. He and six friends had
left home in Michoacan state, where they earn about $6 a day working in the
fields. "We can't support ourselves at home; we need the money from the other
side," Camacho said. His only plan was to slip across the border and walk north
until he found someone to give him work. "Anyone," he said. "Anywhere."

Facing Camacho and the others across a nearby ditch was an astounding high-tech
spiderweb spun by the U.S. Border Patrol in New Mexico. Motion sensors were
buried in the ground. High-resolution infrared cameras were mounted on poles,
able to spot people five miles off. A man hiding in the dark would pop up larger
than life on video monitors 35 miles away, so detailed that technicians could
see him sneeze.

On the ground, agents in big sport-utility vehicles were armed with night-vision
goggles and satellite global positioning devices. Helicopters buzzed up and down
the border, shining powerful spotlights. U.S. Army units preparing to head for
Iraq were holding exercises here, catching illegal immigrants with precision
surveillance equipment designed for war.

Every day of the year, such high-tech barricades help U.S. authorities catch
more than 3,000 people along the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border. Yet despite the
unprecedented investment in technology and manpower, illegal immigrants are
still coming in waves -- and their numbers are increasing.

A decade ago, the United States began trying to fortify the border, starting
with Operation Gatekeeper in 1994. Since then, U.S. officials have added more
patrols, lights and walls every year, especially since the attacks of Sept. 11,
2001. Yet instead of stopping illegal immigration, those measures have just made
many Mexicans already in the United States stay longer, according to Mexican
officials.

U.S. officials made 1.1 million apprehensions along the border last year, a 24
percent increase over the year before. It is unclear whether the rising
apprehensions signify that more people are trying to cross or that a greater
percentage are being caught. But experts in both countries estimate that perhaps
500,000 or more still make it through each year.

Because it has proved impossible to jail the huge numbers of immigrants who
cross the border illegally each year, Border Patrol officials are focusing on
identifying and arresting those with criminal records and watching for potential
terrorists.

The officials said they have caught more than 53,000 people with criminal
records -- including about 9,000 felony offenders -- since September, when a new
computerized system was started to allow agents to quickly check a migrant's
background against the FBI's database. The vast majority do not have criminal
records, however. They are simply driven to the border and released into Mexico,
where many keep crossing until they succeed.

"What we're doing is not working," Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), chairman of the
Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration and border security, said in a
telephone interview. "I don't believe you can build a wall high enough or wide
enough to keep out people who have no hope or opportunity where they live."

How to better manage the contentious issue of immigration will top the agenda
when President Bush meets with Mexican President Vicente Fox later this month in
Texas. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is scheduled to visit Mexico on
Thursday to take up the issue.

Bush has advocated a large-scale guest worker program that would allow Mexicans
to work legally in the United States for several years and then return home.
Cornyn said he believed Bush and both parties in Congress were serious about
trying to enact some type of temporary worker program, while at the same time
strengthening border security against potential terrorists.

Mexican workers in the United States, including millions of illegal immigrants,
are vital to the Mexican economy, sending a record $17 billion home last year.
Mexico cannot create enough jobs for the more than 1 million young people who
enter the workforce each year, making crossing the border as alluring as ever --
no matter how much the United States fortifies it.

While many U.S. employers welcome such workers, other Americans view them as
lawbreakers who take away jobs and drain school and hospital budgets. Some
opponents of illegal immigration, led by James Gilchrist, a Vietnam veteran from
California, are organizing a protest action next month in Arizona. Their plan is
to hold a mass "community watch" involving at least 500 volunteers who will
patrol the border, observe illegal immigration and report their findings to the
Border Patrol.

According to the group's Web site, the United States is being "devoured and
plundered by the menace of tens of millions of invading illegal aliens." Unless
illegal immigration is curbed, it warns, "Future generations will inherit a
tangle of rancorous, unassimilated, squabbling cultures."

About 50 yards from the tumbledown shacks of Las Chepas, Joe and Teresa Johnson
stood on the U.S. side of the border one recent day, putting up a new fence. The
southern edge of their cattle farm abuts the border. They said a mile of
five-tiered barbed-wire fence, and all the posts, had been stolen -- and not for
the first time.

The Johnsons said it would cost them about $10,000 to replace the fence. They
called the theft the most recent irritation caused by the fast-escalating
traffic of illegal immigrants across their large ranch, which has been in the
family since 1918.

"I'm just a rancher, but I know something's got to be done; it's getting worse
every day," said Joe Johnson, noting that immigrants have left vast amounts of
trash on his ranch and have come to his home demanding food and water.

Teresa Johnson said the Border Patrol does not have enough leeway to deal
effectively with the immigrants, who she said include a growing number of
"thugs" and gang members. "The Border Patrol should be able to use their guns,"
she said. And if they are threatened by the immigrants, she said, "they should
shoot them, take them out."

She said she was not sure if a guest worker program, or other solutions being
considered in Washington, might ease the problems on her land. "I'm so mad right
now," she said, staring angrily toward Las Chepas. "I don't want any of them
over here."

On a recent Tuesday evening, there were 80 newly caught immigrants in the Border
Patrol's processing trailer in the tiny town of Columbus, N.M., about 20 miles
east of Las Chepas. One by one, they were taken out of five holding cells in the
trailer, and their fingerprints were sent by computer to the FBI.

Within minutes, an alert came back for a stocky 24-year-old man in a yellow
sweat shirt. According to the FBI, he had served time in a New Jersey prison for
homicide and was registered as a sex offender before being deported to Mexico.
Agents said he would be charged with returning to the United States after
deportation, a crime punishable by up to three years in prison.

More typical was Judith Rodriguez, 23, who said she was on her way to a
$300-a-week job picking onions on a New Mexico farm. She said she had crossed
over twice before to work on the same farm, and this was the first time she'd
been caught.

"To keep my kids in school I need shoes, clothes, food and school supplies,"
said Rodriguez, who said her daughters, 10 and 9, were being cared for by her
mother.

Like the vast majority of the immigrants captured every day, Rodriguez shortly
would be driven to the border and sent back to Mexico. Asked if she would try to
sneak across again, she smiled. "Of course," she said. "Tomorrow."

That night, in this 40-mile stretch of border alone, 229 people were caught and
taken to the processing trailer. Two hundred were later returned to Mexico and
nine were held because they had criminal records. Agents estimated that for
every immigrant they catch, at least one or two more make it through.

"I don't let that get to me; there's nothing we can do about it," said Jack T.
Jeffreys, a Border Patrol agent guarding the border in his SUV. He compared his
job to that of a police officer writing speeding tickets. They may not stop
people from speeding, he said, but that doesn't mean police shouldn't write
them.

Mexican guides known as coyotes study the Border Patrol's movements with
binoculars and use radios to coordinate their crossings. "They are as good at
what they do as we are at what we do," Jeffreys said.

As enforcement has increased in Arizona, California and Texas, immigrants are
increasingly coming to places such as Las Chepas, located in the remote desert.
Except for the big border cities of El Paso and Ciudad Juarez, which are about
90 miles to the east, there is nothing but desert and a few small communities
for 100 miles in any direction.

"You can't stop these guys, because they are desperate to make a dollar in the
United States," said Hugo Snyder, 35, a Las Chepas resident in red cowboy boots
and dark sunglasses. "And the coyotes are real wise. They just outsmart the
Americans."

Jose Cruz Anduaga is an official of Grupo Beta, a unit of the Mexican national
immigration agency that offers medical care and advice to immigrants. One recent
day he was riding in a bright orange pickup truck in the desert near Las Chepas
when he found five men, ages 15 to 30, sitting sadly in the dirt.

They had walked 12 hours in hopes of finding a less-guarded place to cross. They
were hoping to make it to Phoenix, more than 250 miles away. They had no map and
no water.

"I feel powerless," Cruz said. "You want them to stay in their country with
their family and their people, but there's nothing we can do about their
economic need. We tell them not to go and they say, 'Are you going to give me a
job?' "

A Border Patrol helicopter hovered in the distance.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              89 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 19, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Wal-Mart to Pay $11 Million;
Chain Settles Illegal-Worker Investigation

BYLINE: Michael Barbaro, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E01

LENGTH: 957 words


Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer, agreed to pay $11 million
to settle a federal investigation that found hundreds of illegal immigrants were
hired to clean its stores, government and company officials said yesterday.

U.S. officials described the settlement's dollar figure as the largest of its
kind. But Wal-Mart admitted no wrongdoing in the case, saying it was unaware
contractors were employing illegal immigrants.

The settlement prompted an outcry from some labor experts, who said $11 million
is insignificant to a company with $285 billion in sales, and is unlikely to
deter other corporations from employing illegal workers.

The case, which grew out of a hit-and-run accident in small-town Pennsylvania,
has thrown a spotlight on the role  of subcontracted janitors, who are used by
many of the nation's largest corporations. The government made every effort to
dramatize the situation yesterday, bringing the police chief who stumbled upon
the illegal immigrants and an array of state and federal law enforcement
officials who worked on the case to a press conference at the US. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement office.

Authorities said that between 1998 and 2003, an estimated 345 illegal immigrants
worked as contract janitors in Wal-Mart stores but that the chain's management
was unaware of the problem. The Bentonville, Ark.-based discounter has ended the
practice of hiring outside cleaning crews.

"We acknowledge that we should have had better safeguards in place to ensure our
contractors were hiring only legal workers," said Mona Williams, a Wal-Mart
spokeswoman. "That's why we are agreeing to pay the $11 million."

As part of the federal investigation, 12 businesses that provided contract
janitor services to Wal-Mart will pay an additional $4 million in fines and
plead guilty to criminal immigration charges, officials said. Wal-Mart's $11
million payment will be spent on federal programs to enforce immigration law.

"This is a milestone for corporate responsibility," said Michael J. Garcia,
assistant secretary for immigration and customs enforcement at the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security."

Wal-Mart yesterday said it has adopted wide-ranging changes to prevent the
future use of illegal workers. It requires executives to approve all store-level
labor contracts over $10,000 and train managers to comply with labor law.

Even with the federal probe behind it, the chain still faces a class-action
lawsuit filed on behalf of undocumented contract workers who say they were
underpaid while working for the chain. The case was filed in November 2003 in a
U.S. District Court in New Jersey.

The federal investigation into Wal-Mart labor practices began with a hit-and-run
car accident in Pennsylvania.

A license plate left at the scene of the crime was traced back to the owner of
an apartment building where authorities found illegal immigrants who cleaned
Wal-Mart stores, said Thomas Frisk, chief of police for Honesdale, a town in
northeast Pennsylvania with a population of 5,000.

Local police reported their findings to immigration officials, who in 2001
arrested 100 illegal immigrants who cleaned Wal-Mart stores in Pennsylvania, New
York, Ohio and Missouri.

A second investigation culminated in a series of dramatic pre-dawn raids on Oct.
23, 2003, during which agents descended on 61 Wal-Mart store in 21 states. The
raids included eight stores in Virginia  --  in Sterling, Culpeper, Richmond,
Winchester, Harrisonburg, Lynchburg, Lexington and Madison Heights  --  and two
in Maryland, in Catonsville and Mount Airy. Law enforcement officials called it
Operation Rollback, a play on Wal-Mart's shorthand for lowering prices.

After the arrests, Wal-Mart approached the government and offered to cooperate
with the investigation, federal officials said.

Williams, the Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the $11 million payment "is a lot of
money, but I think that's because it is designed to get attention  --  and
remind businesses everywhere that they have a duty to ensure their outside
contractors are following federal immigration laws."

But several labor experts said the settlement appeared to be low. "For a company
of this size, this is really no significant deterrent," said Robert Bruno, a
professor of labor and industrial relations at the University of Illinois.

Beth Shulman, a former union leader and author of "The Betrayal of Work," called
the dollar figure a "drop in the bucket," adding, "There needs to be a clear
message that treating immigrants the way Wal-Mart did is unacceptable. I don't
think this sent that message."

Government officials declined to say how they came up with the $11 million
payment.

Federal authorities have so far deported 119 of the illegal immigrants rounded
up in the 2003 raids, Garcia said.

Wal-Mart, which employs 1.3 million people in the United States, faces several
lawsuits alleging sex discrimination and wage violations, and last month the
company launched a wide-ranging campaign to repair its image.

Wal-Mart took out dozens of newspaper advertisement accusing "special-interest
groups" of spreading "misinformation" and "half-truths" about the retailer. As
part of its public relations offensive, Wal-Mart is emphasizing its
contributions to the U.S. economy and its record of charitable giving.

But analysts said the settlement announced yesterday will bring more unwelcome
attention.

"This gives a lot of ammunition to critics," said Adam Hanft, chief executive of
Hanft Unlimited Inc., a consulting and branding company.

The chain's use of illegal immigrants "makes them seem like a financial company
purely driven by numbers verses a neighborhood company that cares about the
community."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              90 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 22, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Flow of Illegal Immigrants to U.S. Unabated;
Mexicans Make Up Largest Group;
D.C. Area Numbers Up 70 Percent Since 2000

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 710 words


Despite tighter border enforcement and a post-Sept. 11, 2001, economic slump,
the number of illegal immigrants in the United States has continued to grow
steadily, with many moving into states that traditionally have small
foreign-born populations, according to a new report released yesterday.

Based on Census Bureau and other government data, the Pew Hispanic Center, a
private research group in Washington, estimated the number of undocumented
immigrants at 10.3 million as of last March, an increase of 23 percent from the
8.4 million estimate in 2000. More than 50 percent of that growth was
attributable to Mexican nationals living illegally in the United States, the
report said.

Most of the overall growth has been in states that previously had small
foreign-born populations, including Arizona and North Carolina, as well as the
Washington metropolitan area.

The combined population of illegal immigrants in Maryland, Virginia and the
District increased almost 70 percent from an estimated 300,000 in 2000 to about
500,000 in 2004, said demographer Jeffrey S. Passel of the Pew Hispanic Center.

The reason, he said, is simple. "What drives the growth in immigrant populations
in general is employment opportunities," Passel said, especially in fields that
do not require formal education. Specifically, Passel cited the booming
construction industry in Virginia, Maryland and the District; the service
industry in Washington; and poultry processing plants on the Eastern Shore.

The report comes on the eve of a mini-summit in Texas  tomorrow during which
President Bush, Mexican President Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Paul
Martin are scheduled to discuss immigration, among other topics.

Pew Hispanic Center Director Roberto Suro said that the number of illegal
immigrants continues to grow at the same rate as in the 1990s  --  approximately
485,000 a year  --  "despite significant efforts by the government to try to
restrain the flow . . . at the border."

Mexicans remain the largest group of illegal migrants, at 5.9 million or about
57 percent of the March 2004 estimate, the report said. An additional 24 percent
or 2.5 million undocumented immigrants are from other Latin American countries.
Assuming the flow into the country has not changed since a year ago, the
population of undocumented immigrants could number nearly 11 million today, the
report said.

Of particular note, said Suro and Passel, was the growth of large undocumented
populations in states other than those with traditionally large foreign-born
populations, such as California, Texas, Florida and New York. Joining those
states in 2002 were Arizona, with an estimated 500,000 illegal migrants, and
North Carolina, with 300,000. There are now six states that each have an
estimated 200,000 to 250,000 undocumented immigrants, including Maryland and
Virginia, Suro said.

The size, age and national origins of the undocumented population  were derived
by subtracting the estimated legal immigrant population from the total
foreign-born population.

Undocumented immigrants are defined as those who are in the United States
illegally  or who have remained in the country on expired visas, as well as a
small percentage of those who only have legal authorization to be in the United
States, such as those with temporary protected status and those seeking asylum.

The numbers in the Pew report came as no surprise to immigration advocacy
groups, some of whom have issued similar estimates in the past four months.

"It's clear that America's lost control of its border," said Steven Camarota,
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors tighter immigration
controls. "The problem is that once we all agree we have this enormous problem,
then what to do about it is something we can't agree on. When you can't agree on
the benefits and costs of a program, it becomes extraordinarily difficult to
formulate any kind of a policy."

Angela Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, which favors a
plan to legalize illegal immigrants, said the continued growth of that
population simply shows that current immigration policy "is broken."

"It's dysfunctional. How we go about fixing it is the big question," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              91 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 26, 2005 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigrant Foes Play Activist Role;
Va. Group Says It Backs Law, but Critics Call It Divisive

BYLINE: Nikita Stewart, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1167 words


As a dozen Latino men walked into Prince William County court in January to face
charges of loitering at a 7-Eleven, Jim McDonald stood outside holding a sign
that read, "ACLU and Illegals Please Go Home."

It's a regular role for McDonald, 59, who pickets frequently outside courthouses
or anywhere else he thinks he should spread his message. He has plenty of poster
board, and he's happy to travel.

McDonald, whose placard targeted a group of Latino day laborers arrested as they
waited for potential employers in Woodbridge, does not work alone. He is part of
a group calling itself the Virginia Coalition Against Terrorism. An assortment
of mostly local residents  --  some of them immigrants themselves  --  the
coalition has dedicated itself to fighting new arrivals who have come to the
United States illegally, as some in the Woodbridge roundup had.

Since the 2001 terrorist attacks, the group's rhetoric has assumed a new edge.
Illegal immigration, the coalition preaches, feeds terrorism.

"We could see 9/11 way before it got here," said Michael Crowe, a financial
consultant who heads the group. "We felt that [the name] Virginia Coalition
Against Terrorism, after September 11, makes a whole lot more sense."

The group, founded in 1990 and comprising 150 members, regularly attends town
hall meetings when the issue of how to handle the region's day laborers  --
most often Hispanic men  --  is up for discussion. Members have picketed Freddie
Mac for co-sponsoring an event with a national pro-immigrant group. Leaders say
the coalition is preparing to take on Anheuser-Busch Cos. for its support of the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund.

And in Richmond this winter, it helped craft legislation that passed the General
Assembly and, if signed by Gov. Mark R. Warner (D), would bar illegal immigrants
19 years and older from receiving public benefits.

As the Northern Virginia suburbs struggle with issues provoked by the influx of
immigrants, the coalition has drawn more supporters. Immigration advocates say
the group is divisive, fanning tensions instead of tackling problems.

"They have been successful in frustrating attempts of local officials to find
solutions," said Tim Freilich, managing attorney for the Virginia Justice Center
for Farm and Immigrant Workers in Falls Church. "Their presence attracts others
who share their views on these matters. They definitely change the tone of the
debate."

Earlier this week, the Pew Hispanic Center, a private research group in
Washington, released a report estimating that the number of undocumented
immigrants in the United States increased from 8.4 million in 2000 to 10.3
million in 2004. Virginia and Maryland have an estimated 200,000 to 250,000
undocumented immigrants each, according to the report.

April Dawn Gallop, a former Army administrative specialist who uses a cane
because of injuries she received in the Sept. 11, 2001, attack on the Pentagon,
said she never thought about immigration and terrorism until that day.

After the attack, she began attending anti-immigration rallies and congressional
hearings, where she often ran into members of the coalition. Then last year, as
soon as day laborers began gathering at a 7-Eleven less than a mile from her
Woodbridge apartment, Gallop contacted members.

"I . . . said I can't believe what's going on," said Gallop, 33, who is trying
to get disability benefits from the military.

As part of a larger group of organizations that target immigration, the group
has helped opponents of day laborers in Maryland, Tennessee and North Carolina.
Now the issue is in its own back yard, Gallop said.

Crowe, 54, protests the "anti-immigrant" and "racist" labels the group often
attracts, saying its membership is multiracial, includes many who are bilingual
and simply wants to secure the country's borders from illegal immigrants who are
receiving public benefits, do not pay taxes and could be terrorists.

"We are not anti-immigrant. We are dealing with illegal immigration," said
Robert Shoemaker, former president of the group. "We have people who speak
languages other than American  --  or English, rather."

Gallop, who has portraits of her heroes, Rosa Parks and Nelson Mandela, hanging
on her dining room wall, said that as a black woman, she resents how the
advocates for immigrants often apply civil rights to immigrant rights. "They are
utilizing civil rights, something my people fought for. I don't like the fact
that they hide behind that to get what they want," she said.

What the day laborers want is "special treatment," she said. "We're all looking
for work. . . . What is so special about these people?"

The members' protests notwithstanding, immigration advocates say the coalition
has effectively wielded power where it can. "I take these guys very seriously,
Mr. McDonald and his friends," said Rick Swartz, an immigration consultant and
former executive director of the National Immigration Forum.

The coalition is part of a well-funded network of small groups across the
country that together spend about $35 million annually on their efforts,
according to Swartz, who says they appear to be grass roots but are working
within a larger movement. "They are created to appear to be separate groups, but
they are all the same people," Swartz said.

He said all the groups eventually lead to Michigan-based John Tanton, a national
leader in the anti-immigration movement and founder of the Federation for
Immigration Reform, NumbersUSA and ProEnglish.

Coalition members denied a conspiratorial effort to appear grass roots but say
they do work with and hold membership in other organizations.

As an example of the local coalition's reach and its connections to other
organizations, immigration advocates point to the bill sponsored by Del. David
B. Albo (R-Fairfax) that excludes all but legal immigrants from most state and
local public services.

Albo said that when he got help from Shoemaker and others to draw up the bill,
he did not know them as members of the Virginia coalition but as members of
national groups, the American Council for Immigration Reform and the Federation
for American Immigration Reform. He said Shoemaker helped him get a team of
people to write the bill, which easily passed.

"I didn't use them so much as advocates but as a resource when writing the
bill," he said.

Former attorney general Jerry W. Kilgore, a Republican who is running for
governor, has voiced his support for the bill.

In Prince William County, the coalition has vocally opposed the recommendations
of a task force charged with finding a permanent solution to the day laborer
situation. The task force, created by Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge),
is proposing that the county help cover the costs of a workforce center where
laborers could wait for work.

The task force will hold a public meeting at 7 p.m. April 4 in the auditorium of
the Dr. A.J. Ferlazzo Building, 15941 Donald Curtis Dr. in Woodbridge.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2005



CORRECTION:  A March 26 Metro article about a group called the Virginia
Coalition Against Terrorism reported that April Gallop, a coalition member,
began attending anti-immigration rallies after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. She says that they were rallies against illegal immigration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              92 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 5, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

In Ariz., 'Minutemen' Start Border Patrols;
Volunteers Crusade to Stop Illegal Crossings

BYLINE: Amy Argetsinger, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: BISBEE, Ariz. April 4


--  Penny Magnotto and Gayle Nyberg stood at their post on a forbidding stretch
of desert road, staring down the seven strands of barbed wire separating them
from Mexico.

The Southern California women had risen at dawn in their makeshift quarters at a
nearly defunct Bible college to join scores of other volunteers from around the
country on the first official day of a highly symbolic crusade. Their mission:
to monitor the flow of illegal immigrants crossing into the United States and to
do their legal best to stop it. So they stood  ready  --  binoculars,
walkie-talkie, sunblock, water  --  and gazed at the motionless landscape of
sand and brush.

"If we see any immigrants, we'll first radio someone, and then call Border
Patrol," said Nyberg, 56, in a camouflage jacket.

"We can ask them if they'll wait," explained Magnotto, 61,  in a red, white and
blue windbreaker, "but we can't touch them."

But had they seen anyone on this stretch of border, the illegal entry point for
hundreds of thousands of immigrants a year?

Well, no, they said. Not yet.

With the start of the Minuteman Project  --  a combination "civilian patrol" and
immigration protest  --  officials with the U.S. Border Patrol were reporting a
sharp drop in the number of illegal crossers apprehended along a stretch of
border said to be the most porous in the nation.

Organizers of the effort  --  decried by President Bush as "vigilante" activity
and by Mexican President Vicente Fox as an "immigrant hunter"  --  claimed an
early victory. "We've completely locked down the border," said Larry Morgan, a
volunteer from Long Beach, Calif. Sightings of 24 potential crossers were
reported to authorities, Minuteman organizers said.

But border officials and others said the decrease probably  had less to do with
Minuteman vigilance than a military patrolling effort on the Mexican side of the
border  --  not to mention the boisterous protesters, counter-protesters and
satellite-equipped TV trucks gathered on the usually desolate dirt road between
Douglas and Naco, Ariz.

"Migrants aren't crossing here, that's the effect," said Scott Kerr, 29, a
worker with Christian Peacemaker Teams, a relief group that leaves water and
food for immigrants trying to cross the treacherous, dry terrain. "Some days
we'll encounter hundreds. Today we didn't see any."

The full impact of the Minuteman Project remained elusive Monday. Organizers
said more than 400 people had arrived over the weekend for orientation sessions
and rallies, the first wave of the 1,300 volunteers they expect to participate
in some part of the month-long desert vigil.

Thus far, there were no immediate signs of the white supremacist gangs or other
troublemaking groups that local officials feared would be drawn by the event,
and no reports of clashes or violations.

But the event also seemed much smaller than advertised. Organizers had promised
to place teams of monitors at quarter-mile or half-mile intervals along a
23-mile length of border. But by midmorning  Monday, all of the visible activity
was clustered around a two-mile stretch, where a dozen or so teams were
stationed. Organizers said others were as far as three miles back from the
border or stationed in canyons, away from the dirt road.

Even as they gazed out at the border with binoculars, many of the Minutemen
acknowledged that making a point was their true purpose.

"I'm a right-wing conservative Bush supporter, and I think Bush is wrong on
immigration," Morgan said, citing the president's support of a guest-worker
program that would allow more Mexicans to work legally in the United States on a
temporary basis.

Morgan, 60, a  general contractor, stood on a hillside with two other men,
monitoring the barbed-wire fence and sharing grievances about border crossers.
They complained about provisions in some states to issue driver's licenses or
in-state tuition rates to  illegal immigrants. Darrel Wood, 44, a  fiber-optics
engineer, said eight of the 10 most-wanted criminals in his home state of Utah
are illegal immigrants; Morgan blamed them for prison overcrowding and
California's fiscal crisis.

"It's affecting my children at school,"  Wood said. "They're suffering, trying
to get these immigrant kids up to speed."

In the five days since Minuteman volunteers began arriving, the Border Patrol
had apprehended far fewer immigrants than usual  --  about 100 a day, down from
the usual 300, said Andy Adame, a Tucson-based spokesman for the federal agency.

But Adame said he believed the decrease was  linked to an operation by Mexican
officials on the other side of the border. "We don't attribute that to the
civilians patrolling the desert," he said. Minuteman organizers said they have
directed their volunteers to call Border Patrol if they  spot suspicious
activity, rather than confronting the people themselves. Adame said he could not
say how many calls they had received from Minutemen, if any; he said there had
been no rise in the overall number of calls they receive from citizens.

Adame also reiterated the Border Patrol's objections to the program, noting that
the volunteers were setting off sensors placed along the border and blurring the
footprints agents often follow in search of illegal immigrants.

"They're tromping all over the place making our job a little more difficult," he
said. "It's not a major crisis, but it is detrimental to our operations."

Officials with the Cochise County Sheriff's Department reported no incidents
connected to the Minuteman effort. There were, however, anecdotal accounts of
testy exchanges between the Minutemen and representatives of the various
organizations that  oppose the program.

Kathryn Ferguson, a Tucson documentary filmmaker who volunteered as a "legal
observer" with the Arizona chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union,
reported encounters with "a lot of verbally aggressive people" who called her a
terrorist or communist.

She said that one of her colleagues  --  a woman with a dark complexion  --
approached a team to pet a dog and was told by its owner, "My dog's trained to
keep people like you off my land." But she said other Minutemen were pleasant,
chatting about how they had never been involved in a protest before or how much
they enjoyed the desert.

Morgan scoffed at the suggestion that his crowd of fellow border-watchers
harbored any malcontents. "This is a cross section of America, and I love being
with them," he said. In the meantime, though, he wished things would liven up a
bit.

"I'd like to see some more movement," he said. He was eager to put the
night-vision goggles to work and had volunteered to fly a plane for aerial
surveillance.

Paul Johnson, 60, a native of  Jamestown, N.Y., with a sheathed knife on his
belt, recalled the ominous sight the  team spotted on Saturday, its  first trip
to the barbed-wire frontier.

"We saw 15 ready to cross the border, all dressed in black," he said. "They saw
us and just stood there for an hour." He said they were later escorted away by a
relief group and driven back into Mexico.

Morgan nodded. "They'll just make an attempt later on."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              93 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 557 words


TUCSON  --  A civilian border-watch group dismissed a volunteer who made an
illegal immigrant pose for a mocking photograph.

Organizers of the Minuteman Project said that although authorities determined
the man had not illegally detained the immigrant, he still violated the group's
procedures. They added that the volunteer had given the immigrant $20 and fed
him during Wednesday's encounter.

The project, which has organized round-the-clock shifts to watch for illegal
activity along a section of the southeastern Arizona border throughout April,
has set a policy requiring its members to avoid physical contact with illegal
immigrants, organizers said in a news release.

Authorities said Bryan Barton of San Diego and two other volunteers spotted the
immigrant on Wednesday along a highway about 10 miles north of the Mexican
border. On its Web site, the Minuteman Project said the volunteer believed the
man was in distress from lack of food and fluids, and gave him cereal and milk.
He posed for a picture next to the immigrant while holding up a T-shirt
imprinted with the words "Bryan Barton caught an illegal alien and all I got was
this lousy T-shirt," and gave him $20 as a federal agent arrived to take the man
into custody.

*  NEWTON, Kan.  --  Gregory Moore, 46, barricaded himself inside his house for
hours before surrendering to authorities Saturday after allegedly killing Harvey
County sheriff's deputy Kurt Ford, 38, and wounding Hesston police detective
Chris Eilert, 33, police said. The officers had barged into Moore's house after
hearing a woman being struck.

*  SIOUX FALLS, S.D.  --  Murray James Jones, 41, was arrested on charges he
kidnapped his girlfriend's 8-year-old granddaughter, then raped and killed her,
authorities said. Jessica Rae Delatorre's body was found near Fulton, about 70
miles west of Sioux Falls, authorities said. Police said the suspect led them to
the body.

*  FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.  --  Broward County sheriff's detective Joe Isabella,
34, was fired after being charged with falsifying documents in police reports.
He is the third official charged in the state attorney's 17-month probe into
allegations that Broward deputies closed cases by attributing them to people who
could not have committed the crimes.

*  NEW YORK  --  Ronald Popadich, 44, of Garfield, N.J., pleaded not guilty to
charges that he hit 25 people with his car in Midtown Manhattan three years ago,
killing one of them.

*  CHICAGO  --  Robert Royko, 41, a son of the late newspaper columnist Mike
Royko, was arrested Friday after he allegedly walked into a bank with a device
rigged to look like a pipe bomb and demanded a bag of cash, authorities said. A
bank guard knocked the device from the suspect.

*  WEST POINT, N.Y.  --  West Point cadet Tracey L. Rivers of Superior, Wis.,
faces four years in military prison and dismissal from the Army after pleading
guilty Thursday to indecent assault on one female cadet and breaking into the
rooms of three others while they slept.

*  MARBLEHEAD, Mass.  --  Gerald Amirault, who spent 18 years in prison after
being convicted of raping eight children at his family's Fells Acres day-care
center, was hired by Citizens for Limited Taxation, according to an official of
the anti-tax group. Amirault, 51, was released on parole last year.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              94 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 23, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Md. MVA Employee Charged in ID Card Sales

BYLINE: Eric Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 313 words


A Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration employee conspired with the owner of a
driving school and a third person to sell state identification cards, many to
illegal immigrants, for as much as $2,000 each, federal authorities alleged
yesterday.

Court documents accuse Dodson Robey, who worked in the agency's Beltsville
office until his arrest this week, of improperly issuing more than 150
identification cards since July.

Robey, 34, of Hyattsville, and Silver Spring residents Margentina Pinilla, 41,
and Valentin Milstein, 59, are charged with conspiring to transfer fraudulent
identification documents.

Pinilla, who worked at the motor vehicle agency until May, and Robey appeared in
U.S. District Court in Greenbelt on Thursday. Milstein, the owner of Val's
Driving School in Wheaton, appeared yesterday. None has entered a plea, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Allen F. Loucks said.

The investigation by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents began in
October with a tip from a confidential informant, according to a law enforcement
affidavit. In December, two undocumented immigrants arrested on immigration
violations told agents that they had paid Milstein $2,000 each in exchange for
receiving identification documents without having to show paperwork such as an
valid out-of-country passport, the affidavit says.

In January, agents put a hidden microphone on another man who had been charged
with an immigration violation and listened in as Milstein offered him the same
service for the same price, it says. Yet another cooperating witness met with
Pinilla the next month at her home, where for $1,000, the affidavit says, she
provided a birth certificate and directed the witness to Robey's station in the
Beltsville office.

Messages left for Milstein and Pinilla yesterday were not immediately returned.
A woman who answered at Robey's home hung up.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              95 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Backs Measure to Tighten ID Requirements

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 544 words


The Real ID Act, which the Senate approved yesterday, would make it more
difficult for illegal immigrants to obtain identification that the federal
government will recognize when they try to board an airplane, fill out tax forms
or open a bank account. But the measure  would affect U.S. citizens as well.

Americans would need an authentic copy of their birth certificate to apply for a
new driver's  license or renew an old one. The certificates must be verified at
the counter by a Department of Motor Vehicles agent, along with other
identification, such as Social Security numbers and utility bills. Governors,
legislatures and officials in motor vehicle departments oppose the act, saying
it would lead to agonizingly long lines at DMV offices.

States would not be required to comply with the legislation, which President
Bush is expected to sign, but their residents would pay a price if they did not.
They probably would be turned away when they tried to enter airport gates,
unless they had other identification, such as a passport.

In addition to tightening restrictions on acquiring driver's licenses, Real ID
also would create more obstacles for immigrants seeking asylum and give
Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff unprecedented
authority to supersede environmental laws in completing a three-mile stretch of
fence at the Mexican border with San Diego. Critics of the measure say Chertoff
may be able to exert that new authority at other border spots as well.

Real ID's driver's license provisions "will affect everyone, citizens and
noncitizens alike," said Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, which opposes the measure. "I think citizens
are going to be surprised at how burdensome this is on them."

Most of the burden would fall on those who lack the proper identification that
allows most Americans to move about freely.  Illegal immigrants  would still be
able to obtain documents that allow them to drive, but the papers would bear a
stamp, or color code, showing that they should be used solely for that purpose
and not as identification.

The National Conference of State Legislatures said that complying with the new
regulations within three years, as the measure requires,  would cost states $500
million to  $700 million. Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.), the
measure's sponsor, said the cost is closer to $100 million.

Lawmakers changed some of the language that would have created even more
daunting obstacles for asylum-seekers. In the original version, immigration
judges had the power to order an asylum-seeker deported, and federal courts
could not stay the order, as they can now. That provision was withdrawn in
negotiations because lawmakers feared that refugees would be sent back to
nations where they had been persecuted or tortured.

Negotiators also lifted a 1,000-per-year limit on the number of women who  can
enter the country under claims of being forced to have abortions.

"There was some improvement," said Eleanor Acer, executive director of Human
Rights First, an advocacy group for asylum-seekers and refugees. "But I'm very
concerned that this bill will make it much more difficult for refugees to get
asylum in this country."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              96 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 21, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

DHS Arrests 60 Illegals in Sensitive Jobs

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 345 words


The Department of Homeland Security yesterday arrested 60 illegal immigrants who
worked at 12 critical infrastructure sites in six states, including seven
petrochemical refineries, three electric power plants and a pipeline facility.

There is no evidence that any of the workers  --  who come from Mexico, Honduras
and Guatemala  --  have any terrorist ties, said officials with the DHS
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

But officials said there is reason to be concerned about their presence at those
sites nonetheless.

The immigrants arrested "pose a serious homeland security threat," Assistant
Homeland Security Secretary Michael J. Garcia said in a statement. "Not only are
their identities in question, but given their illegal status, these individuals
are vulnerable to potential exploitation by terrorist and other criminal
organizations."

Some of those arrested could face criminal charges of using fraudulent documents
to get the jobs or reentering the country after deportation, officials said.

The sweep is part of a larger ICE initiative over the past two years to remove
illegal immigrants working at sensitive infrastructure locations. About 1,100
undocumented workers have been arrested at airports alone. Most of the sites in
this week's crackdown are in Texas and California, with others in Oklahoma,
Mississippi, Kentucky and Louisiana.

The workers were all employed by Brock Enterprises of Beaumont, Tex., which
provides maintenance workers to nuclear plants, chemical manufacturers and other
industries. The company cooperated in the probe and is not a target of the
investigation, ICE officials said. Many of the workers got the jobs by
presenting phony documents to a hiring consulting firm that worked for Brock,
officials said.

"These sorts of cases may be high-profile, but they're unlikely to make the
country more secure," said Susan F. Martin, a Georgetown University immigration
expert. "What's needed is a much more comprehensive reform of immigration
policies" to help employers know whether someone is authorized to work.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              97 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 8, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Candor on Immigration

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson

SECTION: Editorial; A21

LENGTH: 886 words


Immigration is crawling its way back onto the national agenda  --  and not just
as a footnote to keeping terrorists out. This year Congress enacted a law
intended to prevent illegal immigrants  from getting state driver's licenses;
the volunteer "minutemen" who recently patrolled the porous Arizona border with
Mexico attracted huge attention, and members of Congress from both parties are
crafting proposals to deal with illegal immigration. All this is good. But
unless we're brutally candid with ourselves, it won't amount to much. Being
brutally candid means recognizing that the huge and largely uncontrolled flow of
unskilled Latino workers into the United States is increasingly sabotaging the
assimilation process.

Americans rightly glorify our heritage of absorbing immigrants. Over time, they
move into the economic, political and social mainstream; over time, they become
American rather than whatever they were  --  even though immigrants themselves
constantly refashion the American identity. But no society has a boundless
capacity to accept newcomers, especially when many are poor and unskilled. There
are now an estimated 34 million immigrants in the United States, about a third
of them illegal. About 35 percent of all immigrants lack health insurance and 26
percent receive some sort of federal benefit, reports Steven Camarota of the
Center for Immigration Studies. To make immigration succeed, we need
(paradoxically) to control immigration.

Although this is common sense, it's common sense that fits uneasily inside our
adversarial political culture. You're supposed to be either pro-immigrant or
anti-immigrant  --  it's hard to be pro-immigrant and pro tougher immigration
restrictions. But that's the sensible position, as any examination of
immigration trends suggests.

Consider a new study of Mexican immigrants by Harvard economists George Borjas
and Lawrence Katz. Mexicans are now the single largest group of U.S. immigrants,
30 percent of the total as of the 2000 census. Indeed, the present Mexican
immigration "is historically unprecedented, being both numerically and
proportionately larger than any other immigrant influx in the past century,"
note Borjas and Katz. In 1920, for example, the two largest immigrant groups  --
Germans and Italians  --  totaled only 24 percent of the immigrant population.

Some Mexican Americans have made spectacular gains, but the overall picture is
dispiriting. Among men, about one in 20 U.S. workers is now a Mexican immigrant;
in 1970 that was less than one in 100. Most Mexican workers lacked a high-school
diploma in 2000 (63 percent for men, 57 percent for women). Only a tiny share
had college degrees (3 percent for men, 5 percent for women). By contrast, only
7 percent of native-born U.S. workers were high school dropouts, and 28 percent
were college graduates in 2000. Mexican workers are inevitably crammed into
low-wage jobs: as food workers, janitors, gardeners, laborers, farmworkers. In
2000 their average wages were 41 percent lower than average U.S. wages for men
and 33 percent lower for women.

What's particularly disturbing about the Borjas-Katz study is that children of
Mexican immigrants don't advance quickly. In 2000 Americans of Mexican ancestry
still had lower levels of educational achievement and wages than most
native-born workers. Among men, the wage gap was 27 percent; about 21 percent
were high school dropouts and only 11 percent were college graduates. Borjas and
Katz can't explain the lags. "What's the role of culture vs. lousy [U.S.]
schools?" asks Katz. "It's hard to say." Borjas doubts that the cause is
discrimination. Low skills seem to explain most of the gap, he says. Indeed,
after correcting for education and age, most of the wage gap disappears.
Otherwise, says Borjas, "I don't know."

But some things we do know  --  or can infer. For today's Mexican immigrants
(legal or illegal), the closest competitors are tomorrow's Mexican immigrants
(legal or illegal). The more who arrive, the harder it will be for  low-skilled
workers already here to advance. Despite the recession, immigration did not slow
much after 2000, Camarota says. Not surprisingly, a study by the Pew Hispanic
Center found that inflation-adjusted weekly earnings for all Hispanics (foreign
and American-born) dropped by 2.2 percent in 2003 and 2.6 percent in 2004.
"Latinos are the only major group of workers whose wages have fallen for two
consecutive years," said the study. Similarly, the more poor immigrants there
are, the harder it will be for schools to improve the skills of their children.
The schools will be overwhelmed; the same goes for social services.

We could do a better job of stopping illegal immigration on our southern border
and of policing employers who hire illegal immigrants. At the same time, we
could provide legal status to illegal immigrants already here. We could also
make more sensible decisions about legal immigrants  --  favoring the skilled
over the unskilled. But the necessary steps are much tougher than most
politicians have so far embraced, and their timidity reflects a lack of candor
about the seriousness of the problem. The stakes are simple: Will immigration
continue to foster national pride and strength or will it cause more and more
weakness and anger?

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              98 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 10, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

New Tack Against Illegal Immigrants: Trespassing Charges

BYLINE: Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1224 words

DATELINE: NEW IPSWICH, N.H.


--  The police chief of this tiny whitewashed New England town has crafted his
own border-control policy  --  he has charged illegal immigrants from Mexico
with trespassing in New Hampshire.

The novel legal strategy has made a minor celebrity of W. Garrett Chamberlain.
The 36-year-old police chief hops to his feet and deposits a pile of letters on
his desk, from Alaskans and Californians, Border Patrol agents and soldiers in
Iraq, all applauding his initiative. Fox News commentators have called, too,
seeking his views on national immigration policy.

Chamberlain, who has served as chief for three years, describes his actions as
born of frustration with the federal government. His officers had discovered
illegal immigrants several times, but immigration agents declined to detain
them.

"I'm just saying: 'Wait a minute. We're on heightened alert and it's post-9/11,
and I'm going to let an illegal immigrant who I don't know from Adam just walk
away?' " Chamberlain said. "That's ridiculous. If I find you are in my country
illegally, I'm not going to worry about political correctness. I will detain
you."

So another shot is fired in the often-testy debate over U.S. immigration
policies and border security, a battle fraught with political and ethnic
anxieties. Already, another police chief, Richard E. Gendron in nearby Hudson,
N.H., has followed suit. A few days ago, Gendron brought trespassing charges
against two illegal immigrants from Mexico after his officers stopped a van with
a broken headlight. Several police chiefs in New Hampshire have suggested that
they might pursue such tactics in the future.

For now, however, their eyes are trained on New Ipswich, a town of 4,200 people
set in green hills just north of the Massachusetts border. The Mexican
immigrant, Jose Mora Ramirez, faces trial on the trespassing charge in July. The
two Mexicans arrested in Hudson will be tried later that month.

The Mexican consulate has hired an attorney for Ramirez, fearing that a court
may uphold the trespassing charges and so set a national precedent.

"The Mexican government was understandably worried that this could become the
charge du jour across the country," said Claire Ebel, executive director of the
New Hampshire American Civil Liberties Union, which helped find the lawyer for
Ramirez. "They worry about vigilante police chiefs who will round up people
based on the color of their skin."

New Hampshire is 96 percent white but has seen a swell of immigration from south
of the border in recent years. The Latino population, in particular, has grown
in Manchester and Nashua. These two cities have at least 20,000 Latinos, of
Uruguayan, Puerto Rican, Dominican, Mexican and Central American descent, and
there are now two Latino members of the 424-member state House of
Representatives.

"The $64,000 question is why these police chiefs are doing this," said state
Rep. Hector M. Velez (D), who was born in Pennsylvania and served in Operation
Desert Storm before moving to Manchester, about 20 miles northeast of New
Ipswich. "They talk terrorism, but none of these guys were looking for anything
except hard work. You ask me, some people are afraid of the unknown."

The two police chiefs insist that racial and ethnic considerations played no
role in their calculations. (The populations of New Ipswich and Hudson are 98.6
and 96.3 percent white, respectively.) They note that their officers made the
arrests during routine traffic stops at night.

"Look, if you came here legally, fine,"  Chamberlain said. "I greet you with
open arms."

He and Gendron reserve much of their annoyance for the federal government, which
they say spends billions of dollars on homeland security even as the southern
and northern borders remain sieves. (U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
or ICE, estimates that 8 million illegal immigrants live in the United States;
about 465,000 are fleeing deportation orders.) "I just find it hard to believe
that we spend billions of dollars on high-tech security stuff and then we let  8
million people come across our border illegally and say nothing," Gendron said.
"My son is with the Army in Iraq, and he says the biggest challenge is to
tighten the border. Why is it any different here?"

Chamberlain was nudged into action in the summer of 2004, when he stopped a van
for speeding along New Ipswich's short main drag. He found 10 Ecuadoran men
inside, all of whom readily admitted they lacked legal papers. Chamberlain
placed a phone call to ICE.

"The feds were, like, 'Whatever. Just give them a ticket and let them go,' "
Chamberlain said. "I was shocked."

After that, the chief sat down with a local prosecutor and tried to find a legal
foothold. They settled on New Hampshire's trespassing law, which states: "A
person is guilty of criminal trespass if, knowing he is not licensed or
privileged to do so, he enters or remains in any place." They planned to demand
that illegal immigrants report to an immigration office within 72 hours of
pleading guilty.

New Ipswich officials checked with the state attorney general, who gave a
modified thumbs up. "It's a novel interpretation,"  Assistant Attorney General
Robert Carey said. But he added: "We weren't aware of any New Hampshire case
that would preclude that prosecution."

The New Hampshire ACLU takes a dimmer view.

"This is a preposterous interpretation of a state law intended to apply to
private property," said Ebel of the state ACLU. "You have to turn your mental
clock back 100 years to believe that a police chief has the right to set federal
policy."

Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for the federal immigration service, declined to
comment on the legal strategy. He noted that most police departments choose to
tap into the federal government's criminal database and consult with ICE agents
on arrests. "The reality is that the immigration system was never set up to
arrest every single illegal immigrant," Van Pelt said. "You'd have to build
prisons from the West Coast to the East Coast to do that."

New Hampshire has come late to wrestling with immigration. While French
Canadians once poured in to work in lumber and textile mills, the state's modern
growth has been fed predominantly by white residents moving north from
Massachusetts. They have often settled in towns where historically much stock
was placed on fitting in.

"One has to recognize that a lot of people coming from Massachusetts are to some
extent trying to leave behind the issues of immigration and ethnicity," said
Prof. David H. Watters, director of the Center for New England Culture at the
University of New Hampshire. "There is also an old tradition in New Hampshire of
'warning' people who were not born there out of towns. That sensibility still
survives."

Interviews with a dozen residents of the two towns found nothing but support for
the chief. "The poor chief is just doing his job," Diane Slyman said as she
sipped coffee in a New Ipswich bagel shop. "We want to live in a small town
where we feel safe."

Gendron has heard much the same at his end. "I've got pretty close to 80
e-mails, and only one was negative," he said. "And that person was concerned
that if illegal immigration slowed down, the price of lettuce might go up."

Staff writer Michelle Garcia in New York contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              99 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 18, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Get Real on Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 527 words


Mae M. Ngai [op-ed, June 14] proposes that we should give up pursuit of illegal
immigrants  who manage to elude detection after their initial entry. Ngai, a
history professor, contends that "in the first decades of the 20th century, it
was considered unconscionable to expel such people. Judge Learned Hand of New
York said that deportation, especially when it tore people from their homes and
families, was 'barbarous and cruel.' "

The Post's readers would benefit from knowing what Judge Hand actually said. The
case in question, United States ex rel. Klonis v. Davis (1926), involved an
immigrant from Poland who had twice been convicted and sentenced to prison for
burglary. The United States sought to deport him.

Judge Hand upheld the government's right to do so, and referred to "our
reasonable efforts to rid ourselves of unassimilable immigrants." Judge Hand
then expressed hope that the immigrant would be able to secure a pardon, because
he had lived most of his life in the United States, and in particular because
his criminal history showed that he was "already proved to be incapable of
honest living." The immigrant's criminal history, according to the judge,
illustrated that it would be "cruel and barbarous" to deport him to Poland,
where he would become "a helpless waif in a strange land."

This rather unusual view  --  that the less likely an immigrant is to contribute
to society, the more deserving he is of avoiding deportation  --  is not
evidence that deportation was "considered unconscionable" by many Americans in
the first part of the 20th century. Contrary to Ngai's claim, it would appear
that deportation of convicted felons enjoyed the support of the federal
government and the citizens who elected that government.

--  Phillip C. Hughey

Washington

*

So Mae Ngai thinks that a "statute of limitations" for illegal immigrants is a
good idea. She agrees that over time, these people, like naturalized and
native-born Americans, get jobs, buy homes and have children. Because of this,
she says, deportation is cruel and unfair. If they can elude the authorities for
long enough, perhaps they should be able to stay, she opines. I disagree.

It isn't merely that they are trespassing. These illegal immigrants break
multiple laws every day. Every time they arrive at the job they got using their
counterfeit Social Security card, they break the law. Every time they sign a
contract swearing that their identification information is correct, they break a
law. Every time they drive, unlicensed and uninsured, they are breaking laws.
Every time they agree to work in unsafe environments for unreasonably low wages,
they undermine our work safety and labor laws. After which infractions should
the "statute of limitations" clock should start ticking?

In 1986 Ronald Reagan gave amnesty to about 3 million undocumented immigrants.
In return, the American people were promised severe penalties for those who
hired illegal immigrants. We were promised strict border controls. Instead, the
illegal immigrant population has exploded to an estimated 11 million. Where are
those promises now?

--  Merry Bierd-Dobbins

Dallas, Ga.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              100 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Plan May Have Gone Awry

BYLINE: Brian Faler, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 517 words


The Bush administration's guest worker plan has actually helped fuel illegal
immigration because some believed President Bush is offering amnesty, according
to a watchdog group's analysis of a government poll of immigrants detained by
the Border Patrol.

The survey, some of the results of which were obtained, analyzed and released
Tuesday by Judicial Watch, found that 63 percent of more than 800 immigrants
arrested along the nation's southern border said they had heard from the Mexican
government or media that Bush was offering amnesty. Forty-five percent said they
attempted to cross the border based on those beliefs. Eighty percent said they
wanted to apply for amnesty.

"Illegal immigration increased as a result of President Bush's proposed
immigration reform," said Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch.

The organization, which opposes Bush's immigration plan, obtained the survey
results through Freedom of Information Act requests. Rep. Tom Tancredo
(R-Colo.), also critical of the proposal, sent a letter to Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff demanding to know why the January 2004 poll was
conducted and why it was not previously disclosed.

An official of the Department of Homeland Security rejected the group's
assertions, saying they were based on a survey that was not completed.

"I don't know how they can draw any conclusions based on inconclusive findings
and information taken out of context," said Kristi Clemens, an assistant
commissioner in customs and border protection. The survey, originally scheduled
to last six months, ended after a few weeks. Clemens said its existence was
leaked to the news media, which, she said, "compromised" the poll and prompted
the office to end it. She said the agency had designed the questions "to predict
any trends" so it could head off any potential problems.

The administration proposed early last year to allow undocumented workers living
in the United States to legally hold jobs. The plan would give legal status to
as many as 8 million immigrants for up to six years, provided they remained
employed. The plan would not necessarily place them on the path to citizenship
or permanent residence.

The proposal was backed by the business community, opposed by many immigrant
advocacy groups and languished in Congress. Some Republicans have criticized the
plan as tantamount to amnesty, a characterization the administration has
rejected.

Judicial Watch said it obtained more than 1,000 documents related to the poll,
including more than 800 questionnaires that Border Patrol officers filled out
based on responses from detainees. Judicial Watch analyzed the answers and
calculated the results.

It issued a report noting that the government's survey is not scientific and
that detainees do not always provide reliable answers. But Fitton said the
survey nevertheless indicated that Bush's plan has had unintended consequences.

"It's an official government investigation into whether amnesty is influencing
the illegals they are apprehending," Fitton said. "I think it ought to be given
very significant weight."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              101 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

$41 Billion Cost Projected To Remove Illegal Entrants

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 462 words


A new study by a liberal Washington think tank puts the cost of forcibly
removing most of the nation's estimated 10 million illegal immigrants at $41
billion a year, a sum that exceeds the annual budget of the Department of
Homeland Security.

The study, "Deporting the Undocumented: A Cost Assessment," scheduled for
release today by the Center for American Progress, is billed by its authors as
the first-ever estimate of costs associated with arresting, detaining,
prosecuting and removing immigrants who have entered the United States illegally
or overstayed their visas. The total cost would be $206 billion to $230 billion
over five years, depending on how many of the immigrants leave voluntarily,
according to the study.

"There are some people who suggest that mass deportation is an option," said
Rajeev K. Goyle, senior domestic policy analyst for the center and a co-author
of the study. "To understand deportation policy response, we had to have a
number."

Advocates for tougher enforcement of immigration laws did not dispute the
study's figures but disputed its assumptions about how enforcement would work.

The study assumed that tougher enforcement would induce 10 percent to 20 percent
of undocumented residents in the United States to leave voluntarily. But Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates stronger enforcement of immigration laws, argued that as many as half
would leave voluntarily if the government were to aggressively seek them out and
crack down on businesses that hire them illegally.

"We do need to know what enforcement would cost," he said, "but [the study] is a
cartoon version of how enforcement would work."

The study estimates that it would cost about $28 billion per year to apprehend
illegal immigrants, $6 billion a year to detain them, $500 million for extra
beds, $4 billion to secure borders, $2 million to legally process them and $1.6
billion to bus or fly them home.

Goyle said that he conducted the study, in part, to respond to conservative
officials who have advocated mass deportations, in some cases immediately.
Earlier this year, former House speaker Newt Gingrich advocated sealing U.S.
borders and deporting all illegal immigrants within 72 hours of arrest.

Will Adams, a spokesman for Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.), an outspoken advocate
of stronger immigration laws, called the study an "an interesting intellectual
exercise" by liberals that is "useless . . . because no one's talking about"
employing mass deportation as a tactic.

"No one's talking about buying planes, trains and automobiles to get them out of
the country," Adams said. "The vast number of illegal immigrants are coming for
jobs. Congressman Tancredo wants to go after the employers."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              102 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 9, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigration

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 131 words


Here are some of the issues in Virginia politics concerning illegal immigrants.

*  Education The legislature passed a bill to make illegal immigrants ineligible
for cheaper in-state tuition at public universities, but the bill was vetoed.

*  Benefits A law that takes effect in January will bar illegal immigrants older
than 18 from receiving some public benefits.

*  Policing Republican gubernatorial candidate Jerry W. Kilgore said he will
support a bill authorizing local police to detain illegal immigrants.

*  Day Labor Centers Kilgore also said tax money should not be used to finance
centers for day laborers, because they are magnets for illegal immigrants.

On the Web More Washington Post articles about Virginia election issues are
available at www.washingtonpost.com/vagovt.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              103 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 9, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

N.Va. Leaders Advise Kilgore To Stay Out of Laborer Debate

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 899 words


Northern Virginia leaders said yesterday that their communities have no
resources to enforce federal immigration law and urged Jerry W. Kilgore to steer
his campaign for governor clear of the debate over day laborers.

By opposing a proposed tax-supported site in Herndon for day laborers, whose
ranks include illegal immigrants, the Republican candidate injected himself into
a local zoning issue that should be resolved within the town's borders, the
officials said.

"I would much rather have people who disagree with a regulated site say this
approach is a better approach," said Herndon Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly, who
campaigned on a promise to resolve his constituents' frustration with the
crowded scene in a 7-Eleven parking lot most mornings as the laborers look for
construction work.

"We're trying to deal with too many people standing on a street corner,"
O'Reilly said. "Mr. Kilgore is saying the only way we can deal with it is by
arresting people."

On the other hand, Loudoun County Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling),
whose district is near the proposed site in Herndon, said the town would be
sending a mixed message if it aggressively pursued gang activity while looking
the other way on, or actively supporting, illegal immigration.

"They thought they were solving a problem with jobs and loitering," he said of
those who support the labor site. "In reality, they are creating a contradiction
in public policy."

Kilgore, a former attorney general, denounced public funding for day laborer
centers unless they serve only legal immigrants. He also said he supports
legislation to give police the authority to detain illegal immigrants arrested
for other crimes and turn them over to federal officials.

The debate over day laborers in the small town in northwestern Fairfax County
landed on the radar of the statewide campaign three days after it emerged on the
talk show airwaves of WMAL (630 AM).

Herndon officials kept the main phone lines in the municipal building unplugged
for a fourth day yesterday after Mark Williams, a substitute host on "The
Michael Graham Show," continued to denounce O'Reilly and other Herndon officials
who support a gathering spot for day laborers. Town officials unplugged the
phones Friday after Williams, broadcasting from Sacramento, urged listeners to
"melt" the switchboard to complain that Herndon was embracing illegal
immigrants.

"If they've moved to a more important topic by tomorrow, we'll turn the phones
back on," said Town Manager Steve Owen. "They were ranting and raving and
beating up on Herndon, so we kept them down." He said many callers and e-mailers
used expletives to describe the day laborers and town officials who support a
publicly financed site.

The day laborers are drawn to Northern Virginia's robust construction industry,
which depends on low-wage workers to meet the demand for home building. Child
care, landscaping and janitorial employers and the region's huge service
industry provide jobs for thousands of the estimated 175,000 to 200,000 illegal
workers in Virginia.

Arlington established the state's only tax-supported site for day laborers in
the county's southern end four years ago. In Prince William County, workers
congregate at a 7-Eleven in Woodbridge, but officials have declined to spend
public money on a permanent site. Fairfax set aside $400,000 in this year's
budget to pay for private outreach workers at the informal gathering place in
Herndon, as well as sites in Annandale and Culmore.

As the debate spreads to encompass national immigration policy, supporters and
skeptics of organized sites say outsiders such as Kilgore are obscuring the real
issues.

"At a local level, I am not here to get involved in national issues of
immigration," said Loudoun County Supervisor Stephen J. Snow (R-Dulles), whose
district borders the proposed site in Herndon. "What I want is a solution."

Although Snow said some of his constituents are concerned that the laborers are
in the country illegally, the majority wants to make sure the neighborhood
remains quiet and safe.

Arrests are fiercely opposed by immigrant rights advocates and by police
officials, who said their departments would need time and costly training to
perform such tasks.

"We're the local police, and we're dealing with local crime," said Fairfax
County police spokeswoman Mary Ann Jennings. A state law that took effect last
year allows police to arrest convicted felons who have reentered the country
illegally after being deported.

Otherwise, if someone is discovered to be in the country illegally in the course
of an arrest for a crime, "we can alert the authorities," she said. But an
officer's primary concern is to enforce state and local, not federal, law, she
added.

Others said a police crackdown would make all immigrants wary of reporting
crimes.

"If they witness a crime, there will be fear of what the police will do to
them," said Arlington County Supervisor Walter Tejada (D).

Fairfax Board of Supervisors Chairman Gerald E. Connolly (D) called Kilgore's
proposal to have police make immigration arrests "demagoguery" that would cost
taxpayers.

"We do not have the resources to somehow substitute ourselves for federal
officials," he said, citing the "abject failure" of federal authorities to
enforce immigration law.

Staff writer Michael D. Shear contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              104 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 10, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Broken Law, Broken Home

BYLINE: Dianne Twinam

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 524 words


I am an American citizen married to an illegal immigrant. We have a child. We
would like to have another child, but I am terrified that my husband could be
deported and I would be left with no husband and our children with no father. A
new study just released by the Pew Hispanic Center estimates that the illegal
immigrant population now stands at almost 11 million. If a mere 1 percent of
these immigrants have an American spouse or child that would mean that more than
110,000 U.S. families face the same concerns.

Many people assume that immigrants married to U.S. citizens automatically become
eligible for permanent residency. Most people erroneously assume my husband is
qualified for citizenship based on our marriage and family. It's unfortunate,
but these assumptions are not even close to the realities of immigration law
today.

The fact is, he could be deported and be banned from returning to the United
States for 10 years. If he did get deported, returned to his home country, and
applied for residency based on the difficulty it would cause our family, he
wouldn't be granted the hardship waiver for the following reasons:

*  I make more than four times what the government would consider poverty level
for a family of four, yet we would be only a family of two.

*  I am college-educated.

*  My son and I are in perfect health.

*  I have only one child, not five or six.

To summarize, because I am not a poverty-stricken, uneducated woman with six
kids, no job and no  skills, and we are not unhealthy, we do not have a right to
live together as a family. Our separation would not be a considered a hardship.
How's that for "family values"? Every time I hear that catchphrase from  by the
same politicians who do not want to relax the current immigration laws, I'm
enraged.

I know that in recent years the mood among much of the American public has
turned against illegal immigrants, especially since the Sept. 11 attacks. "They
broke the law," is the constant refrain. "Why should they be rewarded?"

The trouble is that the law is out of sync with  economic and social realities
in the United States  --  especially with the job market. Many of those who
decry illegal immigration willfully ignore the economic benefits it provides to
much of the society. For most of the 11 million undocumented people in this
country, this is the first law they have ever broken  --  a law that makes no
more sense to them than the laws requiring segregated seating on buses made to
Rosa Parks. If it were suddenly and universally enforced, it would produce an
economic disaster.

Yes, my husband came here illegally. Yes, he broke the law  --  a law that is
badly in need of revision. And the fruit of this illegal act was a family and
gainful employment. If this hard-working, upstanding man is deported, his
American family and his employer will suffer with him.

Wouldn't it make more sense to amend the law and allow our family, and others in
the same quandary, to stay together? A $10,000 fine would be more palatable than
a 10-year separation, and it wouldn't cost American taxpayers a dime.

The writer lives in Manassas.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              105 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 11, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mr. Kilgore's Nativism

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 568 words


WITH A GRATUITOUS blast at illegal immigrants, Jerry W. Kilgore, the Republican
candidate for governor in Virginia, has injected a nativist note into the
campaign. Struggling in the latest statewide poll and evidently grasping for an
issue to excite his conservative base and make inroads in Northern Virginia, Mr.
Kilgore injected himself into a local dispute in the town of Herndon, in western
Fairfax County: He announced his opposition to the town's efforts to establish a
publicly funded gathering spot for day laborers, many of them illegal
immigrants, who work in the area's booming construction industry. In Mr.
Kilgore's view, providing such a site for Hispanic laborers, who currently await
work in the parking lot of a convenience store, would "undercut our laws and our
stability by rewarding those who . . . are in this country illegally."

Well, we certainly wouldn't want to see Herndon's day laborers subvert
Virginia's stability. But it's hard to see how the commonwealth is safer or how
its laws are more  secure, with the workers clamoring for construction jobs and
disrupting traffic in front of a 7-Eleven, as they do now.

Then again, if we read Mr. Kilgore correctly, he'd like to see all undocumented
immigrants given the boot. As Virginia's attorney general, the title he held
until earlier this year, he supported legislation that would give local police
the authority to detain illegal immigrants after they've been arrested for
another crime  --  loitering, say  --  and turn them over to federal officials.
Mr. Kilgore seems to care little that police officers, who lack the training,
time and resources to act as immigration agents, are opposed to the idea;
they're actually busy with local crime. Nor does he explain how Northern
Virginia, which has virtually no unemployment, would furnish itself with
construction crews, landscapers, janitors, child-care workers and short-order
cooks and fill dozens of other positions in the absence of the very immigrants
he so badly wants to deport.

The federal government's failure to seal the borders and enforce immigration
laws is a legitimate subject for debate, and a number of states have been forced
to deal with the consequences of that failure. But Mr. Kilgore is not adding a
constructive voice to the debate. He is simply on the prowl for a wedge issue,
and hopes he's found one in immigrant-bashing. Uninvited, he stepped into the
dispute in Herndon several days after a conservative radio talk show host,
broadcasting from Sacramento, urged listeners to deluge  Herndon Town Hall with
so many phone calls protesting the proposed day-laborer site that they would
"melt the switchboard." In an ugly response, listeners did just that, peppering
their calls and e-mails with expletives denouncing the immigrants and the town
officials who would help them. Herndon officials were forced to unplug the
phones.

Given the passions unleashed in this dispute, perhaps the temptation to fan the
flames with a naked appeal for votes was simply too strong for Mr. Kilgore. But
he should have summoned the strength to resist it. Virginia's most pressing
problems  --  including transportation, education and health care  --  will
require all of the next governor's energies. It would be nice if candidates for
governor showed they could focus on the big issues rather than play politics
with bitter and emotional local disputes.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              106 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 21, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Ranch Turned Over to Immigrants;
Volunteer Group Allegedly Terrorized Illegal Border Crossers

BYLINE: Beth DeFalco, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 445 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


An Arizona ranch once owned by a member of an armed group accused of terrorizing
illegal immigrants has been turned over to two of the very people the owner had
tried keep out of the country.

The land is being transferred to satisfy a judgment against Casey Nethercott, a
member of a self-styled border-watch group who is serving a five-year prison
term for firearms possession.

Morris Dees Jr., chief trial counsel of the Southern Poverty Law Center, which
represented the immigrants, said he hoped the ruling would be a cautionary tale
to anyone considering hostile measures against border crossers.

"When we got into this case, ranchers all along the border were allowing these
types to come on their property,"  Dees said. "Now, they're very leery of it,
especially when they see someone losing their ranch because of it."

Nethercott was a member of the group Ranch Rescue, which works to protect
private property along the southern U.S. border. In March 2003 he was accused of
pistol-whipping Edwin Alfredo Mancia Gonzales, 26, at a Hebbronville, Tex.,
ranch near the Mexico border.

A jury deadlocked on the assault charge but convicted him of being a felon in
possession of a firearm.

Mancia and another immigrant traveling with him from El Salvador, Fatima del
Socorro Leiva Medina, filed a civil lawsuit last year saying they were harmed
while being held by Ranch Rescue members.

Named in the suit were Nethercott; Jack Foote,  Ranch Rescue's founder; and the
owners of the Hebbronville ranch, Joe and Betty Sutton. The Suttons settled for
$100,000. Nethercott and Foote did not defend themselves, and a Texas judge
issued default judgments in April of $850,000 against Nethercott and $500,000
against Foote.

Nethercott transferred ownership of his 70-acre Douglas ranch to his sister. But
the sister gave up ownership to settle the judgment when challenged by the
immigrants' lawyers.

The transfer of the ranch outraged border-watch groups.

"If the federal government was doing its job, ranchers would not be living in
fear," said Chris Simcox, president of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corp., a
group that watches for illegal immigrant crossings and reports them to the U.S.
Border Patrol.

Simcox noted that the Minutemen have a policy against touching the migrants and
use video to document their patrols.

Messages  left for Nethercott's family and his  lawyer were not returned Friday.

Dees said his clients plan to eventually sell the property, which Nethercott
bought for $120,000, but may allow humanitarian border groups offering aid to
immigrants to use it for now.

Mancia and Leiva declined through Dees to speak to reporters.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              107 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 24, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. to Beef Up Border Force;
ICE to Help More in Areas With High Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 630 words


A week after Arizona's governor declared a state of emergency in counties
bordering Mexico, the Department of Homeland Security confirmed yesterday that
it agreed to  strengthen its law enforcement presence in areas that are
experiencing high levels of illegal immigration.

In a letter sent Monday to Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano (D),  DHS Secretary
Michael Chertoff said  Immigration and Customs Enforcement  will train local
investigators to deal with  human trafficking in Phoenix.

The Border Patrol will allow its officers to help local police patrol main
highways used by illegal immigrants. DHS also agreed to a state proposal that
would allow the state to help ICE  transport  undocumented immigrants.

DHS spokesman Russ Knocke said the department had placed "a greater priority on
border security" well before Napolitano declared a state of emergency.

"We've added 534 new  Border  Patrol agents in Arizona and 23 new aircraft," he
said. "We're very aware of the frustration that exists along the border and we
share some of those frustrations."

During an interview yesterday at  The Washington Post, Napolitano said Arizona
public safety officials had for months offered to assist DHS  in rounding up
immigrants who had crossed the border illegally but got no response.

In a terse Aug. 11 letter to Chertoff, she said her office met with Border
Patrol officials who "indicated the agency is not interested in participating"
in a joint effort to target human traffickers. In the letter, Napolitano  said
ICE representatives were not interested in exploring a joint operation in
Phoenix, where human smugglers maintain safe houses  for transient immigrants.

"This bewildering resistance is a further example of ICE's inattention to
Arizona," she said.

Two days after the letter, New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson (D) declared a state
of emergency along the Mexico border. Napolitano did the same two days later.

The declarations allow the governors to spend nearly $1.5 million each to hire
more police, buy vehicles and otherwise shore up law enforcement in counties
that border Mexico. A Richardson spokesman said Chertoff  called the governor
yesterday and assured him that security along the border is  a priority for DHS
and that some of the 1,000  border patrol agents expected to be added next year
will be posted to New Mexico. Chertoff also said an analysis is nearly
completed on how best to integrate technology and personnel to stop illegal
immigration, said Billy Sparks, Richardson's deputy chief of staff.

Arizona officials say the porous border burdens police, who have  recorded
about 510,000 arrests since Oct. 1. In New Mexico, ranchers  allege that  as
many as 30 illegal immigrants run across their property each night.

The governors called for remedies to border security that echo in legislation
proposed by Sens.  John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.).

The senators proposed a guest worker program that would allow new immigrants  to
work jobs that  U.S. citizens do not  want. Undocumented immigrants living and
working  illegally would pay a penalty for breaking the law and go to the back
of the job line, behind new immigrants.

Conservative critics accused Napolitano and Richardson of  trying to embarrass
the Republican Bush administration on an issue  the president cares about. In an
interview yesterday at  The  Post, Napolitano responded: "If it wakes George
Bush up, then I think I did the right thing."

Knocke said the administration is making strides in improving border security.
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the government has expanded the Border
Patrol's size and has increased spending by 58 percent, he said.

"We are encouraging those states that want to work with us," Knocke said.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              108 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 24, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

New Hampshire Will Not Appeal Ruling on Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H. Aug. 23


The state attorney general's office will not appeal a ruling that dismissed
trespassing charges against a group of illegal immigrants arrested by two police
chiefs who said they were frustrated by lax federal enforcement.

Attorney General Kelly Ayotte (R) has written to the state's police chiefs,
saying her office will not appeal and instructing them not to use the
trespassing law to take undocumented immigrants off the street.

"This office has determined that there is an insufficient basis for appeal,"
Ayotte wrote in a memo dated Aug. 15.

Police in Hudson and New Ipswich this spring arrested illegal immigrants, mostly
from Mexico, under the state's trespassing laws. They argued that people in the
country illegally also were in the towns illegally and, thus, were subject to
trespassing laws. The immigrants had been stopped on traffic violations and then
admitted they were in the United States illegally, police said.

Judge L. Phillips Runyon ruled earlier this month that the trespassing charges
cannot be used as an immigration tool, agreeing with defense lawyers that the
small-town police chiefs had violated the Constitution by trying to enforce
federal laws.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              109 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 26, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Border Emergency

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 558 words


THERE ARE, NO DOUBT, elements of politics and showmanship in the recent moves by
the governors of New Mexico and Arizona to declare states of emergency along
their borders with Mexico. New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson and Arizona Gov.
Janet Napolitano are both Democrats up for reelection next year  --  Mr.
Richardson harbors presidential ambitions as well  --  and illegal immigration
is a front-burner issue in both states. The declarations free up state funds to
be spent on extra patrols, equipment and other needs. But the acts are even more
important as a cage-rattling device  --  an "act of desperation," as Mr.
Richardson called it, to prod Congress and the Bush administration to pay
attention to the growing problem.

To the extent that these declarations are a publicity stunt to get Washington
moving, we hope they work. Scores of illegal immigrants are dying in the hot
desert. Drug smuggling, human trafficking and associated crimes are on the rise.
The system is overwhelmed: Even if there were enough border patrol agents to
apprehend all the undocumented workers, which there aren't, there wouldn't be
enough other staff to process them or, especially in the case of those from
countries other than Mexico, enough beds to hold them until they can be sent
home. Meanwhile, as the recent controversy over day laborers in Herndon
illustrates, the impact of illegal immigration reaches well beyond border
states. As Ms. Napolitano predicted at a luncheon with Washington Post reporters
and editors this week, "It's a border state issue now, but it's going to be a
national issue."

And it's one that can't be solved through stepped-up enforcement alone: There is
too much supply on the part of those who want to enter the United States,
legally or illegally, and too much demand on the part of employers to fill jobs
that would go begging without foreign workers. This is a point on which the Bush
administration and the Democratic governors agree, at least in theory. President
Bush has proposed  --  though he's failed to push  --  a plan for temporary
worker visas that could reduce the incentive to enter the country illegally. "A
strategy that simply hires a lot of border patrol agents and puts them on the
line is not an effective strategy," Michael Chertoff, Department of Homeland
Security secretary, told reporters this week.

There are some reasons to hope this fall could be the time for a more sensible,
comprehensive approach. A proposal by Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Edward M.
Kennedy (D-Mass.) includes a temporary guest worker program similar to the one
the president outlined. Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and John Cornyn (R-Tex.) have
put forward a more restrictive measure. "Immigration reform is going to be an
interesting subject when we get back to Washington, D.C.," Mr. Bush said earlier
this month. "I'm looking forward to the topic."

What's needed from Mr. Bush, though, is a commitment not simply to observe the
debate over immigration reform but to join, if not lead, it. The episode just
before the congressional recess, in which the administration abruptly withdrew
its two witnesses from a Senate hearing on immigration reform, was not a good
omen. But perhaps five weeks in a border state will buttress Mr. Bush's
commitment to fix the problem of illegal immigration, not to simply talk about
it.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              110 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 30, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Bush Pledges Action on Borders;
Southwest Is Promised Agents, Jail Space for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: EL MIRAGE, Ariz. Aug. 29


President Bush flew into the heart of the nation's volatile debate over illegal
immigration Monday and defended his administration's efforts to control the
nearby border with Mexico after a surge of criticism from across the political
spectrum.

Two weeks after the Democratic governors of Arizona and New Mexico declared
states of emergency along the border, Bush used a Medicare speech here to
promise residents an increasingly robust federal campaign that will deploy more
agents and provide more detention space to stop those trying to sneak into the
country.

"We have an obligation to enforce the borders," Bush said to applause. "I
understand it's putting a strain on your resources. . . . What I'm telling you
is there's a lot of people working hard to get the job done, but there is more
we can do."

He stressed that the chorus of grievances emerging from border states in recent
weeks had seized his attention. "It's important for the people of this state to
understand your voices are being heard in Washington, D.C.," Bush said. In
emphasizing beefed-up enforcement, though, he made no mention of his stalled
proposal to grant temporary guest-worker status to millions of illegal
immigrants.

After leaving Arizona, Bush headed to California, another state where illegal
immigration has long provoked angry debate. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has come
under pressure from fellow Republicans to follow the lead of his neighbors and
declare a state of emergency along the border. Bush drew strong applause in
Rancho Cucamonga when he vowed to enforce border control.

The decibel level over illegal immigration in this part of the country has risen
in recent months amid anger at the federal government for not doing more. A
group calling itself the Minuteman Project took it upon itself to patrol the
border for a time, drawing criticism from Bush, who deemed its members
"vigilantes." Then Govs. Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Bill Richardson of New
Mexico declared emergencies to release emergency funding and to get Washington's
attention.

The Bush administration responded last week when Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff announced that he would coordinate more closely with the border
states and bolster enforcement efforts. Napolitano greeted Bush when Air Force
One landed Monday, and he promised her that he was attentive to the issue,
according to the governor's press secretary, Jeanine L'Ecuyer. "It shows some
movement, and we're pleased about that," L'Ecuyer said. "That's more progress
than we had two weeks ago."

Also greeting Bush was Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who is sponsoring legislation
to authorize a guest-worker program permitting new immigrants to work jobs that
citizens do not want. The president paused on the tarmac to help celebrate
McCain's 69th birthday, but on a blazing Arizona day, the cake melted before he
could taste it.

For Bush, the start of a two-day departure from his Texas vacation allowed him
to refocus, however briefly, on domestic issues after peace demonstrations
outside his ranch this month drew sustained attention to the Iraq war. But even
on this day, he was not able to escape the topic.

Hundreds of protesters lined his motorcade routes in Arizona and California,
holding up signs such as "Bush the Lying Turd" and "Chicken George," a reference
to his refusal to meet again with Cindy Sheehan, the mother of a soldier killed
in Iraq who set up camp near his Texas ranch demanding an audience. A competing
crowd gathered in California waving flags and signs such as "Support Our
President."

Bush mentioned the continuing violence during his speeches, but drew hope from
the drafting of an Iraqi constitution despite objections from the nation's
disaffected Sunni minority. "I am very optimistic about Iraq," he said, "because
first of all I believe deep in everybody's soul is the desire to be free."

The formal purpose of Bush's trip was to continue educating senior citizens
about upcoming changes to the Medicare system and urge them to sign up for the
new prescription drug benefit that takes effect in January. The White House
announced that it has further refined the drug program so that Medicare
beneficiaries in nearly every state will have the choice of a prescription plan
with premiums under $20 a month.

"This is a good deal for our seniors," Bush said. "We have done our duty in
Washington, D.C.," he added. "We've upgraded an important program and made it
better."

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) issued a statement blasting the Bush program as
"a fatally flawed" law that "includes billions in subsidies for HMOs and big
drug companies at the expense of the Medicare program that seniors know and
trust."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              111 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 4, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 336 words


TUCSON  --  The cost of dealing with illegal immigration exceeds the emergency
$1.5 million Gov. Janet Napolitano (D) agreed to send to Southern Arizona,
county officials said.

Citing security shortcomings by the federal government, Napolitano and New
Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson (D) last month declared emergencies on their states'
borders with Mexico. That freed up emergency funds  --  more than $3 million for
the two states  --  for law enforcement overtime, for repairs of border and
cattle fences and for costs related to illegal immigrants' deaths.

But officials of Pima, Cochise, Santa Cruz and Yuma counties said Friday that
they  probably will have to spend at least $5 million over the next six months
to a year.

County officials said they hope Napolitano will ask the federal government to
declare a national emergency.

Federal officials said a record 415 people have died trying to cross the border
illegally from Mexico in the past 11 months.

NEW YORK  --  A federal judge upheld three lawsuits Friday accusing Jordan-based
Arab Bank of promoting Palestinian suicide attacks by funneling Saudi Arabian
money to bombers' families.

U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon denied six of eight counts in Arab Bank's March
motion to dismiss the litigation, allowing bombing survivors and victims'
families to proceed with lawsuits claiming that Arab Bank aided terrorism by
acting as the administrator of an "insurance plan" by the Saudi Committee in
Support of the Intifada Al Quds, which paid $5,300 to the families of
Palestinian bombers killed in attacks by the Islamic Resistance Movement, or
Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades.

MIAMI  --  Tropical Storm Maria was gathering energy from warm ocean water in
the Atlantic on Saturday but posed no immediate threat to land.

"Maria could be near hurricane strength by Sunday," said hurricane specialist
Jack Beven. It was more than 800 miles southeast of Bermuda on a track that
could take it east of Bermuda.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              112 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 7, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Border States Paying Toll of Fatal Crossings;
Millions Spent on Examining Rising Deaths of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1096 words

DATELINE: LUNA COUNTY, N.M.


On a broiling-hot day in the middle of July,  Ambrosia Martinez-Dominguez set
out on foot with several companions in Mexico and entered the sprawling New
Mexico desert. Her body was found by Border Patrol agents the  next day.

Like dozens of people before her, Martinez-Dominguez  collapsed from heat
exhaustion on the way to the promised land. In a ritual carried out almost
weekly by New Mexico medical examiners, her remains were retrieved from the
desert and taken to Deming, N.M., at a cost of $150 to taxpayers. An additional
$330 was spent to transport her corpse north to Albuquerque for an autopsy that
cost an additional $2,500.

Between 2000 and today, 90 bodies have been recovered in New Mexico near the
Mexican border, state officials said. That number does not include illegal
immigrants who died after they were struck by cars while trying to cross busy
Interstate 10, or who were killed in accidents when their vehicles transporting
them sped out of control, sometimes while fleeing police.

"We have so many Mexican nationals in our crypts . . . we really don't know what
to do," said Amy Wyman, supervisor of investigations for the New Mexico Office
of the Medical Investigator.

Over the past five years, millions have been spent by states to examine the dead
and prepare them for their final rest. But it is only one of the many ways that
the uncontrolled flow of immigrants from Mexico is costing border communities
that many Americans rarely consider.

Thousands of illegal immigrants are treated at local hospitals often for
injuries suffered during the hazardous journey north. At Mimbres Memorial
Hospital in Deming, nearly a quarter of all patients treated last year were
illegal immigrants  who law enforcement officials brought in, or who  stepped
across the Mexican border,  said they had a medical emergency and  persuaded a
rancher to call an ambulance, said hospital administrator Derrick Yu.

The border issue was thrust into the public eye last month when Democratic Govs.
Bill Richardson of New Mexico and Janet Napolitano of Arizona declared states of
emergency at their borders with Mexico. Richardson's declaration freed $1.75
million to help four border counties: Hidalgo, Dona Ana, Grant and Luna. The
Arizona declaration granted law enforcement agencies about $1.4 million.

Both governors said that unchecked border crossings are  increasingly
threatening the well-being of their citizens, and that the fight to stem the
tide is  draining their financial resources at an alarming rate.

Law enforcement officials are raking in overtime dollars because there is so
much human trafficking  and drug smuggling. In Arizona alone, nearly 54,000
pounds of cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine and marijuana  have been confiscated
by police officials so far this year, dwarfing the previous year's total, said
Jeanine L'Ecuyer, a spokeswoman for Napolitano.

L'Ecuyer said reports of assaults against officers by illegal immigrants  are
rising, as are auto thefts and incidents of vandalism on property near the
border.

In New Mexico, ranchers who raise livestock at the Mexican border say they see
them coming nearly every night. "I caught 27 of them myself," said Steve Allen,
a New Mexico rancher. His wife, Kim, said immigrants have broken into the family
home three times in the past two years, taking any food they could carry. Once,
a pickup truck was stolen.

"We are so undermanned," said Teresa Johnson, who lives on a ranch near the
Mexican border in Columbus, N.M., with her husband, Joe. "If you call the state
police it would be two hours before they get here. But they do all they can."

Luna County Undersheriff Raymond Cobos stood on a hill overlooking his vast
territory, about 3,000 square miles of scorched desert and sloping trails
illuminated by a white-hot sun. "There are people out there right now. They can
see us. They're waiting for us to leave, waiting for night," he said looking
grim.

The place where  Martinez-Dominguez died, near  I-10, had the markings of a
staging area where immigrants pause to drop the loads they hauled from Mexico in
black plastic garbage bags.  Bottles of water, pants, bras, boxers, toothbrushes
and cans of Spam and other snack foods have turned wide swaths of desert  into
something resembling a landfill.

Martinez-Dominguez's whereabouts were discovered after some of her companions
were captured by the Border Patrol. They found her on July 15, her lifeless body
propped up under a makeshift shelter. Her Mexican identification card was in a
pocket, a stroke of luck for investigators.

Ordinarily, medical investigators said they are forced to scan the fingerprints,
trace dental records or contact the Mexican consulate, which checks records in
Mexico. A single investigator in Albuquerque is paid $37,000 a year to track
down relatives.

In rare cases  such as Martinez-Dominguez's, the job is easy. Word of her demise
made it back to her home town by telephone even before the Mexican consulate was
contacted. Her parents had shown up at the Border Patrol station in El Paso
asking for their daughter's remains.

Other unidentified bodies remain in the state morgue. "We will hold on to them
for several months if we feel the family will come forward, but we're legally
obligated to hold them for only two weeks,"  Wyman said.

Eventually, the state makes arrangements to burn or bury them at varying costs
of as much as $3,000. The costs fall on the county where bodies are found. Most
counties opt to cremate remains because it is cheaper.

In New Mexico, 19 people were found dead in the desert. "And those are just the
ones we know about," said Fred Rossiter, a state medical investigator based in
Luna County.

"I get so many I lose track," Rossiter said at Baca's Funeral Home in Deming,
where the bodies are taken. "We have people pass away other than on the desert,
like in traffic accidents. We've had seven fatalities with illegal aliens in
motor vehicle accidents."

Last year, 14 immigrants were killed when a van fleeing police spun out of
control, he said.

In Arizona, 224 have died this year in two large desert sectors, Yuma and
Tucson, according to public records.  Overall, the state has seen a 23 percent
increase in deaths related to desert crossings in the past two years, state
officials said.

Help is on the way to ease the problem, although it does not amount to much,
officials said. The Luna County Sheriff's Department stands to receive $75,000
after the state declared a state of emergency.

"We'll go through that pretty fast," Cobos said.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              113 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 20, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

For Illegal Immigrants, Some Aid Is Too Risky;
Fears Abound as Government Won't Promise Immunity From Deportation

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1367 words

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La.


The man who stood with his head bowed outside a cheap motel room here said his
name is Almicar of Guatemala. He crept across the Mexican border into the United
States a few years ago and since that time has found work as a painter in New
Orleans.

But several weeks ago, Hurricane Katrina turned his world upside down along with
everyone else's. Almicar, who gave only his first name for fear of being
deported, said his situation is worse because he is an illegal immigrant. Since
the storm hit, he has watched his neighbors at the motel call the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to get money he will never see and food stamps that
are forbidden to his family of five, and to seek jobs at the Social Security
office, where he dares not show his face.

Almicar didn't speak a word of English, but his body language said it all. Eyes
down, arms folded, back slumped, he had the visage of a defeated man.

"I'm afraid," he said in Spanish. His family's "situation is getting harder and
harder. You don't know what to think, starting from zero again."

Much has been said about the suffering of the poor in New Orleans, but Latino
civil rights advocates and relief workers say those troubled Americans are
better off than immigrants who live in Gulf states illegally, working in
restaurants, casinos, farms and construction.

Some have managed to get into shelters run by the Red Cross and Catholic
Charities, which provide food and medical care, no questions asked. But when
U.S. citizens in those shelters flock to cardboard tables where FEMA, Social
Security and Internal Revenue Service agents sit, Latinos stay behind, watching
from their cots, relief workers said.

The Department of Homeland Security recently announced that immigrants have no
immunity from deportation when providing information required to receive federal
aid.

"The administration's priority is to provide needed assistance:  water, food,
medical care, shelter," said Joanna Gonzalez, a DHS spokeswoman. "However, as we
move forward with the response, we can't turn a blind eye to the law."

That point was driven home when two illegal immigrants, from Honduras and El
Salvador, were taken into custody in West Virginia by state police after a
military cargo plane carrying 305 evacuees arrived there Sept. 5. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement officials say the two, who are friends, were taken into
custody after state police received a complaint that one had been accused of a
sexual assault.

"What that suggests is that the federal government is prepared to serve some
victims but not others," said Cecilia Muñoz, vice president for policy at the
National Council of La Raza. "That sends a terrifying message to the larger
community."

In his national address Thursday, President Bush read off a list of services
that the estimated 40,000 Mexicans and 150,000 Hondurans who lived in the New
Orleans area cannot get: checks from Social Security, mail delivery by the
Postal Service, money to rent apartments and temporary trailer homes.

Opponents of illegal immigration, such as Numbers USA, have fought giving
financial aid to illegal immigrants. On the other side, a group of U.S. senators
including Barack Obama (D-Ill.) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) urged DHS
Secretary Michael Chertoff to issue a statement reassuring immigrants that they
could come forward without fear of deportation.

"We are very concerned because they're afraid to ask for help," Brent A. Wilkes,
executive director of the League of United Latin American Citizens, said of
illegal immigrants. "It's difficult to get word to them. They're in the dark
much more so than other folks. They have a default position: to avoid
authorities at all costs."

About 65 Latinos were staying at the $30-a-night motel where Almicar stood. Some
were documented; many were not. A Guatemalan woman said she is consumed by worry
and fear. She would not give her name, she said, because people would come to
deport her.

What if my children get sick? she wondered. "I guess I will have to go to the
hospital and take my chances," she said.

Her friend Merling Buchanan, a Tulane University master's student from Honduras
who speaks English, is the eyes and ears to the world for several of the
Peruvians, Guatemalans and Ecuadoreans living at the motel.

"Normally when I get up, there's always someone I need to take somewhere," said
Buchanan, a naturalized citizen. On Monday, a friend from Guatemala wanted to
speak with a caseworkerat Catholic Community Services.

"The lines are long, so I stay all day," she said. "There is a list, and people
write their name. I was Number 102."

Days before, FEMA deposited $2,000 directly into her bank account, she said. At
the cheap motel, that pittance seems like an embarrassment of riches.

Mario Fletes, 31, a Honduran painter, said he is very frustrated, watching his
wife and three sons worry.

"I went to get unemployment, and they said they couldn't process my Social
Security number," which, he insisted, is legitimate. "I went to apply for food
stamps. They told me to come back in two days. I went Thursday. I went Friday.
Finally, they told me not to come back."

Wilkes said FEMA does not have enough Spanish-speaking officials to handle even
those who work legally on farms, in hotels and in casinos.

But David Passey, a FEMA spokesman, disputed  that. "We have Spanish-speaking
operators on our registration phone lines," he said. "We understand the need to
communicate with people in several different languages. If we have areas where
we're lacking, advocacy groups can tell us. We're open to input."

Rony Reyes said his friends are almost out of money for the motel. Catholic
Community Services of Baton Rouge paid the motel manager about $200 to keep some
under a roof for a week.

"Thank God for the church," he said. "We would be sleeping in the parking lot
now, no doubt."

But others are helping.

In Mississippi, a group called Project Prep braved floodwaters in Biloxi to get
aid to Latino migrant farmworkers and others who feared deportation, said John
D. Arnold, the project's director and co-founder.

Jacob Prado, who is coordinating relief efforts for the Mexican Embassy,
distributed cash and airline tickets in and around Biloxi to Mexican citizens
wishing to return home, an embassy spokesman said.

In San Antonio, a convoy of 45 Mexican army vehicles rolled into the city with
troops and mobile kitchens capable of feeding 14,000 people. Elsewhere in Texas,
Catholic Charities of Galveston/Houston doled out $300,000 to immigrant families
as of Friday  --  about $25,000 a day, said Julissa Guerrero, the communications
director.

"As quickly as the donations are coming in, they are going right back out," she
said. "We are worried that people who are undocumented are falling through the
cracks."

In Louisiana, Diane Chisholm, the director of migration and refugee services for
Catholic Community Services of Baton Rouge, said documented and undocumented
Latinos have poured through the group's doors every day for a week.

"I can say it's been hundreds of people," Chisholm said Monday.

Almicar and other immigrants living at the motel in East Baton Rouge Parish were
residents of Metairie, La., near the New Orleans airport.

On the Saturday before Katrina struck, Buchanan was doing the wash when the New
Orleans mayor said on television, in English, "We're facing the storm most of us
have feared."

She woke her sleeping husband, who snapped at her. "How are we going to go? We
don't have money." He eventually agreed to go and borrowed money from a friend.

"Hispanic friends . . . followed us because they didn't know where to go,"
Buchanan said. "They followed us because we speak English."

They formed a caravan of five rickety cars, one of which broke down en route to
Baton Rouge.

The men work where they can find it, usually in towns more than an hour away. It
costs about $20 in gas per trip, eating into their pay of about $90 each.

Right now, Reyes said, work is worth the sacrifice. The motel rooms are too
precious to give up.

"If you leave, there are three people waiting to take them," he said. "It's all
we have right now."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              114 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Report Details Growth in Illegal Migration;
Undocumented Immigrants Outnumbered Legal Ones From 2000 to 2004, Study Says

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 604 words


More immigrants came to the United States illegally from 2000 through 2004 than
the number who were granted legal status in those years, according to a study
released yesterday that attributed much of the historic shift to visa slowdowns
since 2001 and to the nation's strong job market before that.

The study by the Pew Hispanic Center said that immigration to the United States
--  legal and illegal, from all regions of the world  --  totaled about 1.1
million each year during the 1990s, peaked in 2000 at 1.5 million and declined
substantially since 2001 to earlier levels. The number of new arrivals increased
in 2004, the study said, though it is too early to say that the rise will last.

But the study, based mainly on Census Bureau surveys, said legal immigration
rose more slowly during the 1990s and declined more rapidly since 2000 than did
illegal immigration. One result, it said, is that the 562,000 estimated new
illegal immigrants who arrived last year was about the same as a decade earlier,
while the number of new legal immigrants, an estimated 455,000, was lower.

Pew demographer Jeffrey S. Passel said he believes this was the first time in
the nation's history that new illegal arrivals outnumbered new legal immigrants.
"The presence of the undocumented makes a big difference," he said. "This is
what differentiates this from 100 years ago. There really wasn't anything like
what we call illegal immigration today."

The study made the point that although the foreign-born population rises each
year, now numbering at least 34 million, the pace of new arrivals fluctuates for
a variety of reasons. "The flow of migration is not this inexorable, constant
increase," said Roberto Suro, the center's director.

The nation's buoyant job market in the late 1990s fueled the influx   of new
illegal immigrants and new temporary migrants such as high-tech workers,
according to Passel, and both groups declined in number when the economy slowed.
The study's total of illegal immigrants includes a small number of people with
temporary papers who are seeking permanent visas.

Meanwhile, he said, the government reduced the number of refugee visas and
slowed the processing of other visas after the 2001 terrorist attacks, which
contributed to the decline in legal immigration. This affected people in the
United States with temporary papers who apply for green cards, as well as those
who hope to come to the United States.

A spokesman for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the government
agency that oversees the granting of green cards, said he could not comment on
the study in detail because officials had not examined it closely. But Bill
Strassberger questioned its conclusion that new illegal immigrants outnumber
legal ones.

"I don't know that there are any indications that the undocumented population is
growing faster than the legal population," the spokesman said.

Some demographers  say that family and village networks are so entrenched that
immigration will rise despite the economy. Steven A. Camarota, research director
for the Center for Immigration Studies, said there may have been "some falloff"
in immigration since 2001, but there  are not enough data to say there has been
a substantial drop linked to the economy. Camarota, who supports limits on
immigration, agrees with the Pew study that the number of illegal immigrants is
growing rapidly.

The report did not break out totals for the Washington area, one of the most
popular destinations for new immigrants, but Passel said the region's strong
economy probably dampened any immigration decline since 2001.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              115 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigration At Forefront Of Campaign;
New Va. Governor May Decide Policy

BYLINE: Annie Gowen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1062 words


Virginia Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) has drafted a sheaf of legislation to
further restrict illegal immigrants and said he hopes that Jerry W. Kilgore will
be in the governor's mansion next year to sign those bills into law.

Albo, who has served as the Republican gubernatorial candidate's wingman on
illegal immigration issues throughout the campaign, is bubbling over with ideas.
His legislation would tighten citizenship checks for voters, allow police to
detain illegal immigrants charged with certain crimes and ban publicly funded
day-laborer centers that serve some illegal immigrants.

He said he believes he will have a strong ally if Kilgore is elected Nov. 8.

"I think what Jerry will do will be to try and make the number one goal not
hurting legal immigrants," Albo said. "Then we look at ways we can start taking
away some of the benefits of illegal aliens who come to Virginia. I'm sure the
word is out in Mexico right now that there's a site in Herndon where you can
show up and they'll pay you cash, and nobody checks to see if you're a citizen."

Albo's ambitious plans underline the extent to which the issue of illegal
immigration has entered Virginia campaign politics as never before. The change
became evident with Kilgore's decision last month to highlight his opposition to
a day-laborer center in Herndon.

Kilgore's position was roundly criticized in some quarters  --  Sen. H. Russell
Potts Jr. (R-Winchester), an independent candidate for governor, called it the
"worst form of demagoguery." But it made clear that the issue could play a key
role in the campaign.

Democratic candidate Timothy M. Kaine, a fluent Spanish speaker, has been
relatively quiet on the matter. The lieutenant governor has said that like
Kilgore, he opposes illegal immigration, but he said the federal government, not
state or local government, is responsible for enforcing immigration laws.

"I call on the federal government to do their job and enforce these laws," Kaine
said. "It's not fair to put the burden on state and local governments."

Kaine called the dispute over the day-laborer center a local matter for Herndon.

During a Sept. 13 gubernatorial debate, he characterized Kilgore's approach as a
"mean-spirited effort to go after people who are trying to make a living and to
go after local officials who are trying to deal with a tough problem."

Some Democrats said they hope a Kaine victory might help counter what they
characterize as an anti-immigrant trend in the General Assembly, though none of
the bills that became law in recent years targets legal immigrants. The assembly
has passed laws that require people seeking driver's licenses to prove they are
legal residents and  limit illegal immigrants' access to Medicaid and other
public benefits.

"There's no question that if Kilgore is elected, this will be a state where
immigrants are not welcome," said Walter Tejada (D), an Arlington County Board
member who chairs Gov. Mark R. Warner's Virginia Latino Advisory Commission.
"The Republicans have already had some success with this, but with Kilgore as
governor, it will get worse.

"They say [the trend] doesn't include legal immigrants, but that is the mask
they like to put on it. Of course it does. This whole sentiment affects how
people view immigrants."

Kilgore has said that public funding to support illegal immigrants undermines
the rule of law and denigrates residents who immigrated to the country legally.

Virginia is struggling with cultural changes brought on by a rise in legal and
illegal immigration over the past decade.

The state is home to more than 200,000 illegal immigrants, up 50,000 from 1996,
according to a study for the Pew Hispanic Center. The number of Virginians born
outside the United States has grown from 311,809 in 1990 to 570,279 in 2000,
according to the census.

A Washington Post poll taken Sept. 6 through Sept.9 showed that in Virginia, 33
percent of registered voters think "the growing number of immigrants" has been
bad for their communities, compared with 21 percent who believe it is good.

"Virginia has definitely emerged as a new gateway state, and it looks like the
politics of immigration there are starting to resemble what we've seen in
California or Arizona," said Michael Fix of the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonprofit think tank in Washington that tracks immigration law. "The big
political and legal question that is taking shape right now is, where will we
draw the lines on this issue?

"What will properly be state and local responsibility, and what will be federal
responsibility?"

Kaine and Kilgore support state sanctions against employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants. Kaine said he also supports such "common sense" fixes as the
driver's license restrictions approved by the legislature.

"Kilgore could use this issue to help mobilize conservatives, but there's a
potential cost if he overplays his hand," said Mark J. Rozell, director of the
School of Public Policy at George Mason University. "He could potentially
alienate other voters. . . . Kaine is trying to find an acceptable middle and to
offend as few people as possible."

Kaine has appealed to immigrants with bilingual town hall meetings and
interviews on Spanish-language radio and television stations. He learned Spanish
while working as a Catholic missionary in Honduras when he was a law student.

Asked about his priorities for immigrant communities, Kaine mentions such
general goals as funding more pre-kindergarten programs and providing health
insurance for small businesses.

Kilgore said one of his top priorities would be to expand powers for state
police to enforce immigration laws by signing a memorandum of understanding with
the Department of Homeland Security that would permit police to detain
noncitizens picked up for violent offenses. Florida and Alabama have similar
agreements, Fix said.

During his tenure as Virginia's attorney general, Kilgore supported a proposal
to deny in-state tuition to illegal immigrants. Recently, he supported a law,
set to take effect in January, requiring state and local governments to check
the immigration status of adults applying for most public benefits.

"There is not a day that goes by when I'm not asked about this issue. . . . It's
a defining issue in the race as we go into the final days," Kilgore said.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              116 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 30, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Illegal Immigration at the Forefront;
New Va. Governor May Decide Policy

BYLINE: Annie Gowen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 1062 words


Virginia Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax) has drafted a sheaf of legislation to
further restrict illegal immigrants and said he hopes that Jerry W. Kilgore will
be in the governor's mansion next year to sign those bills into law.

Albo, who has served as the Republican gubernatorial candidate's wingman on
illegal immigration issues throughout the campaign, is bubbling over with ideas.
His legislation would tighten citizenship checks for voters, allow police to
detain illegal immigrants charged with certain crimes and ban publicly funded
day-laborer centers that serve some illegal immigrants.

He said he believes he will have a strong ally if Kilgore is elected Nov. 8.

"I think what Jerry will do will be to try and make the number one goal not
hurting legal immigrants," Albo said. "Then we look at ways we can start taking
away some of the benefits of illegal aliens who come to Virginia. I'm sure the
word is out in Mexico right now that there's a site in Herndon where you can
show up and they'll pay you cash, and nobody checks to see if you're a citizen."

Albo's ambitious plans underline the extent to which the issue of illegal
immigration has entered Virginia campaign politics as never before. The change
became evident with Kilgore's decision last month to highlight his opposition to
a day-laborer center in Herndon.

Kilgore's position was roundly criticized in some quarters  --  Sen. H. Russell
Potts Jr. (R-Winchester), an independent candidate for governor, called it the
"worst form of demagoguery." But it made clear that the issue could play a key
role in the campaign.

Democratic candidate Timothy M. Kaine, a fluent Spanish speaker, has been
relatively quiet on the matter. The lieutenant governor has said that like
Kilgore, he opposes illegal immigration, but he said the federal government, not
state or local government, is responsible for enforcing immigration laws.

"I call on the federal government to do their job and enforce these laws," Kaine
said. "It's not fair to put the burden on state and local governments."

Kaine called the dispute over the day-laborer center a local matter for Herndon.

During a Sept. 13 gubernatorial debate, he characterized Kilgore's approach as a
"mean-spirited effort to go after people who are trying to make a living and to
go after local officials who are trying to deal with a tough problem."

Some Democrats said they hope a Kaine victory might help counter what they
characterize as an anti-immigrant trend in the General Assembly, though none of
the bills that became law in recent years targets legal immigrants. The assembly
has passed laws that require people seeking driver's licenses to prove they are
legal residents and  limit illegal immigrants' access to Medicaid and other
public benefits.

"There's no question that if Kilgore is elected, this will be a state where
immigrants are not welcome," said Walter Tejada (D), an Arlington County Board
member who chairs Gov. Mark R. Warner's Virginia Latino Advisory Commission.
"The Republicans have already had some success with this, but with Kilgore as
governor, it will get worse.

"They say [the trend] doesn't include legal immigrants, but that is the mask
they like to put on it. Of course it does. This whole sentiment affects how
people view immigrants."

Kilgore has said that public funding to support illegal immigrants undermines
the rule of law and denigrates residents who immigrated to the country legally.

Virginia is struggling with cultural changes brought on by a rise in legal and
illegal immigration over the past decade.

The state is home to more than 200,000 illegal immigrants, up 50,000 from 1996,
according to a study for the Pew Hispanic Center. The number of Virginians born
outside the United States has grown from 311,809 in 1990 to 570,279 in 2000,
according to the census.

A Washington Post poll taken Sept. 6 through Sept.9 showed that in Virginia, 33
percent of registered voters think "the growing number of immigrants" has been
bad for their communities, compared with 21 percent who believe it is good.

"Virginia has definitely emerged as a new gateway state, and it looks like the
politics of immigration there are starting to resemble what we've seen in
California or Arizona," said Michael Fix of the Migration Policy Institute, a
nonprofit think tank in Washington that tracks immigration law. "The big
political and legal question that is taking shape right now is, where will we
draw the lines on this issue?

"What will properly be state and local responsibility, and what will be federal
responsibility?"

Kaine and Kilgore support state sanctions against employers who knowingly hire
illegal immigrants. Kaine said he also supports such "common sense" fixes as the
driver's license restrictions approved by the legislature.

"Kilgore could use this issue to help mobilize conservatives, but there's a
potential cost if he overplays his hand," said Mark J. Rozell, director of the
School of Public Policy at George Mason University. "He could potentially
alienate other voters. . . . Kaine is trying to find an acceptable middle and to
offend as few people as possible."

Kaine has appealed to immigrants with bilingual town hall meetings and
interviews on Spanish-language radio and television stations. He learned Spanish
while working as a Catholic missionary in Honduras when he was a law student.

Asked about his priorities for immigrant communities, Kaine mentions such
general goals as funding more pre-kindergarten programs and providing health
insurance for small businesses.

Kilgore said one of his top priorities would be to expand powers for state
police to enforce immigration laws by signing a memorandum of understanding with
the Department of Homeland Security that would permit police to detain
noncitizens picked up for violent offenses. Florida and Alabama have similar
agreements, Fix said.

During his tenure as Virginia's attorney general, Kilgore supported a proposal
to deny in-state tuition to illegal immigrants. Recently, he supported a law,
set to take effect in January, requiring state and local governments to check
the immigration status of adults applying for most public benefits.

"There is not a day that goes by when I'm not asked about this issue. . . . It's
a defining issue in the race as we go into the final days," Kilgore said.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              117 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 13, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Crackdown Targets New Wave of Mobs

BYLINE: Michelle Garcia and Michael Powell, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Nov. 12


Federal prosecutors launched a broad legal assault on two of Chinatown's most
prominent organized crime groups Friday, aiming to disrupt a new wave of
mobsters who thrive in a global economy by smuggling immigrants and counterfeit
goods around the world.

FBI agents and police officers descended on Manhattan and Queens and arrested
nearly 30 suspects, all  ethnic Chinese. In all, prosecutors brought charges
against 51 suspected members of the Wang and Lim crime organizations, accusing
them of beating and shooting rivals and customers, operating gambling houses and
smuggling illegal immigrants, two and three at a time, from China via airplanes.

Often the gangs, whose members hail from Fujian province northeast of Hong Kong,
hold their human cargo hostage in dingy apartments until families agree to pay
ransoms of  as much as $35,000 per person.

The federal indictments -- known as Operation Panda -- mark another page in the
history of organized crime in New York. While few prosecutors are ready to bid a
final farewell to the Italian  American Mafia families, old age and
assimilation, not to mention countless indictments and violence, have taken an
inevitable toll on those groups.

The new underworld increasingly belongs to more recent ethnic arrivals, some of
whom work in tandem with the old Mafia lions. "As in the early days of the
traditional organized crime groups, the victims were people of their own
immigrant communities," said Pasquale J. D'Amuro, assistant director of the New
York FBI office.

Last week, federal prosecutors in Westchester County and the Bronx announced a
crackdown on the Rudaj organization, a group of suspected Albanian mobsters.
Albanian mob chieftain Alex "Uncle" Rudaj and a group of Albanian, Greek, Arab
and Italian soldiers presided over a domain that extended from Queens to the
Bronx and the suburbs north of the city, prosecutors said. Many of these
territories once were provinces of the Gambino, Colombo, Bonanno and Lucchese
crime family empires.

The charges came straight from the old Mafia playbook: extortion, attempted
murder and gambling.

"The newcomers have adopted the swagger and the nicknames favored by previous
generations of gangsters," according to the indictment. The Chinese gangsters go
by such names as "Cat Sister" and "Mustache," while the Albanians favored "Nicky
Nails" and "Shad the Rooster," the legal papers show.

Police nabbed Wang Shao Feng, the alleged ringleader of the Wang organization,
as he left a farewell party in Manhattan's Chinatown. He had planned to return
to China, according to the World Journal, a Chinese-language newspaper.

The mob leader apparently thrived by running rackets aimed at the tens of
thousands of poor Fujianese immigrants who have poured into New York City in the
last two decades, often displacing old-line Cantonese families and business
organizations known as "tongs."

Many of those immigrants wind up selling counterfeit merchandise to tourists and
bargain-seekers in  Chinatown. The mobsters supply the goods and slowly draw the
immigrants into a web of debt, encouraging them to take out loans and run up
bills at illegal gambling parlors.

"The groups are organized not in a complex way as we have seen in the past,"
police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said Friday. "They hang like a cloud over
this community."

The new arrivals speak a dialect that is all but unknown to many second- and
third-generation American Chinese.

"The Fujianese survive in a large underground economy, and there's exploitation,
and it can be a very ruthless life," said Peter Kwong, a professor in Hunter
College's Asian American studies department. "They are exploited and threatened
with violence, and we don't hear that much about it."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              118 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 12, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Supreme Court Calendar

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 64 words


The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments starting at 10 a.m. today in the
following cases:

Leocal v. Ashcroft, No. 03-583. Is drunken driving that causes serious injury an
aggravated felony justifying deportation of a legal immigrant? (One hour.)

Jama v. INS, No. 03-674. May the U.S. deport a foreign national to a country
that lacks a functioning central government? (One hour.)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              119 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 18, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Deportation of Alleged Nazi Guard Urged

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 350 words


The Justice Department asked an immigration judge yesterday to deport an Ohio
man the government says was a guard at Nazi concentration camps.

John Demjanjuk, 84, of Seven Hills, Ohio, is a retired autoworker. The
government says he served during World War II as an armed guard at Nazi
extermination and concentration camps.

In April, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the  6th Circuit in Cincinnati
unanimously affirmed a lower-court decision revoking Demjanjuk's U.S.
citizenship on several grounds, including his "willing" service in an SS-run
unit "dedicated to exploiting and exterminating" Jewish civilians in
Nazi-occupied Poland. Hundreds of thousands of people were killed in these
camps.

"John Demjanjuk's involvement in the infamous process through which thousands of
innocent men, women and children were gassed to death at Sobibor clearly
deprives him of any legal or moral right to live in this country," Assistant
Attorney General Christopher A. Wray, of the Justice Department's criminal
division, said yesterday.

U.S. District Judge Paul R. Matia in Cleveland issued a ruling in 2002 that
stripped Demjanjuk's citizenship. The 6th Circuit upheld the ruling.

A document filed by the Justice and Homeland Security departments states that
Demjanjuk should be deported because of his participation in Nazi-sponsored
persecution while serving as an armed SS guard at Sobibor, Majdanek and
Flossenburg; and because he lied about his wartime occupations and residences
when he applied for a U.S. immigration visa in 1952.

Demjanjuk was an autoworker for Ford Motor Co. in 1977 when the Justice
Department accused him of being "Ivan the Terrible," a notorious Nazi guard who
ran the gas chambers at the Treblinka death camp in occupied Poland during 1942
and 1943.

He was convicted of war crimes and crimes against humanity and sentenced to be
hanged in Israel. Demjanjuk  persuaded the Israeli Supreme Court to overturn his
conviction based on new evidence that someone else was Ivan the Terrible.
Demjanjuk's U.S. citizenship was restored, but the government brought a new case
against him.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              120 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 2, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Prince George's Food Vendors Fight Ban;
Latino Immigrants at Center of Controversy

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D04

LENGTH: 758 words


The hastily called meeting drew 20 food vendors to a gray trailer on the small
campus of Casa de Maryland Inc., an immigrants' rights organization in Silver
Spring.

"We have to show them that we have a political force," community organizer Juan
Carlos Ruíz told the group of Salvadoran immigrants turned business owners.
"People have started small since the time they came here. Then they had the
opportunity to become a professional. We want that for our community as well."

The men and women listening to Ruíz make their living illegally selling stuffed
tortillas, known as pupusas in El Salvador, from white trucks in Langley Park.
Offering food from trucks and cars is against the law in Prince George's County.

For more than five years, the pupusa vendors have been trying to get the ban on
their businesses lifted. As many as 150 such vendors operate in Prince George's.
Often they are allowed to sell   food without worry, but, periodically, county
inspectors and police crack down and confiscate a vendor's food or issue a hefty
fine. Vendors said fines are sometimes hundreds of dollars and wipe out a week's
earnings.

"We have suffered under the threat that they are going to throw us out," said
Juan Rivas, who started operating his truck  --  Latin Food  --  off New
Hampshire Avenue seven years ago. "They give us a ticket and say move out of
here and they treat you like a delinquent."

The effort to overturn the ban on mobile vending is a show of the growing
political savvy of Prince George's County's burgeoning Latino immigrant
community, which has become more organized over time. The pupusa vendors gather
monthly, have started a petition drive and have met with other mobile vendors in
Prince George's, including people who illegally sell crabs and barbecue. They
have also begun lobbying County Council member William A. Campos
(D-Hyattsville), whose district includes Langley Park, to get the law changed.

"This is a very controversial issue, and we need to take everyone into
consideration," said Campos, who was elected six months ago and hopes to craft a
compromise between the pupuseros and people who oppose mobile vending.

The vendors have won the tentative support of other County Council members in
the past. Last year about this time, Peter A. Shapiro, who was County Council
chairman, proposed to allow pupusa vendors to operate in a certain part of
Prince George's, similar to a Montgomery County law that allows a limited number
of vendors to sell their goods in specific places.

The ban on most mobile food vending  --  ice cream trucks were never outlawed
--  was passed a decade ago. The idea was to clean up the county's image; to
county officials that meant getting rid of the crab trucks and big barbecue pits
that  served  food on Landover Road, Route 50 and other major thoroughfares.
That was before the county's Latino population grew to more than 7 percent. In
Langley Park, where most of the pupusa vendors operate, 60 percent of the
population is Hispanic. The pupuseros often obtain food-preparation permits from
the county Health Department but cannot get a business license. The businesses
have proliferated by bringing a taste of El Salvador to immigrants in Prince
George's for about $5.

Some in the community oppose the change to the law because of the crowds,
traffic and noise that the pupuseros attract, and the trash that some trucks
leave behind. It is a clash that LaVerne Williams, president of the Lewisdale
Civic Association and chairman of an alliance of six additional civic groups
that oppose mobile vending, said she does not think can be overcome. For seven
years she has lived in Lewisdale, one of many, small, historic neighborhoods
that surround the immigrant enclave of Langley Park.

"With [the vendors] all around, it makes it look very bad for the community,"
she said. "It makes it look like a third world slum. They cannot operate in
residential areas."

Campos said he thinks he can solve the problem by finding a commercial area that
will allow the pupuseros to operate, keeping them out of residential areas. He
plans to have a proposal by year-end.

Ruíz and the pupuseros hope their organization and persistence will push the
councilman to move faster.

"We aren't begging for anything," he told the vendors at the recent planning
meeting. "We are asking to be contributors to this county. I need you to all
bring five people with you next time, and get your petition sheets completed. On
the other side is a lot of pressure, and we have to put more."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              121 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 22, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Duncan Chides Ehrlich Over Medicaid Cuts;
Some Immigrants Face Loss of Health Coverage

BYLINE: John Wagner, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 557 words


Montgomery County officials took aim at Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. yesterday for
making budget cuts that will cause hundreds of legal immigrants in Maryland to
lose their taxpayer-subsidized health insurance next month.

As part of a broader effort to curb Medicaid costs, Ehrlich (R) in January
proposed eliminating $7 million in funding for coverage of pregnant women and
children classified as permanent legal residents for fewer than five years.

Under the state constitution, the legislature may not add to the governor's
proposal. But lawmakers set aside $1.5 million in the budget that Ehrlich can
use at his discretion to continue prenatal coverage for pregnant women. His
budget secretary said yesterday that Ehrlich has not yet decided whether to
spend that money.

"It is unconscionable that you would even consider ending state support for
pregnant women and children," said a letter signed by Montgomery County
Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D) and two Democratic County Council members, Tom
Perez (Silver Spring) and George L. Leventhal (At Large). "The social safety net
in Maryland has already been frayed by your administration, and this action
seeks to tear it apart entirely."

The letter said 1,300 children and 300 pregnant women in Montgomery County alone
stand to lose coverage. Duncan, who is gearing up to run for governor next year,
has actively been seeking issues that provide a contrast between his priorities
and those of Ehrlich.

Ehrlich spokesman Henry Fawell said cuts in Medicaid programs were among "many
decisions that are made to ensure fiscal responsibility in an area that is under
serious strains every year."

He noted that Ehrlich had proposed an overall increase in the state Medicaid
budget of 9 percent and that those affected by the cuts still would be eligible
to receive emergency room care.

A legislative analysis prepared during the General Assembly session estimated
that the full $7 million cut would encompass prenatal care and care for newborns
and would affect 4,000 people statewide. Labor and delivery charges would be
covered by Medicaid even if the $1.5 million were not spent.

Maryland, like other states, has been under growing pressure to curb its
Medicaid budget. Medicaid accounts for about one-fifth of the state's general
fund budget, according to legislative analysts, and is expected to grow far
faster than anticipated revenue in coming years.

Ehrlich's proposal in effect sought to bring Maryland into line with federal
rules. Since 1996, when Congress made major changes to welfare, the federal
government has not provided its share of Medicaid funding for legal immigrants
until five years after they achieve that classification.

Maryland, however, has provided full funding for those individuals as part of
the federal-state program.

The $1.5 million that the legislature earmarked for coverage of pregnant women
is one of the instances in which lawmakers "fenced off" funding for Ehrlich's
use in the budget that takes effect July 1. Administration officials said last
week that they had chosen not to use several other earmarks, including one to
continue a schools grants program.

Cecilia Januszkiewicz, Ehrlich's budget secretary, said yesterday that "there
have been discussions, but decisions have not been made" regarding the $1.5
million for pregnant women.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              122 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 23, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

More Visas For Foreign Workers;
Quota Raised to Fill High-Tech Jobs

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A19

LENGTH: 474 words


Congress is letting employers hire 20,000 more foreign high-tech workers under a
special visa program after businesses reached the annual ceiling on the first
day of the government's fiscal year.

Businesses are limited to hiring no more than 65,000 workers annually through
the H-1B visa program. They reached that figure in one day, Oct. 1, and
immediately began saying they would lose talented university graduates and
potential employees to competitors overseas.

In response, as part of the $388 billion spending bill passed over the weekend
and awaiting President Bush's signature, Congress is exempting from the limit
20,000 foreign students with master's or higher degrees from U.S. universities.

"This is a critical talent pool that American taxpayers have helped to educate,"
said Sandra Boyd, who chairs Compete America, a coalition that lobbied for the
exemptions. "It's counterproductive to educate these students and then force
them abroad to compete against us."

The coalition includes companies such as Microsoft, Texas Instruments,
Hewlett-Packard and Motorola.

For example, of the 424 students who earned master's degrees in engineering at
the University of Texas at Austin last year, 228 were foreign students; of the
135 who earned doctorates in engineering, 81 were foreigners, Boyd said.

Dan Kane, a spokesman for the Homeland Security Department's Citizenship and
Immigration Services bureau, said the exemptions for foreign students will be
applicable this year. Rep. Lamar S. Smith (R-Tex.) and Sen. Saxby Chambliss
(R-Ga.) led the effort to include them in the spending bill.

Kane said his agency will release details on how employers can apply for visas
made available after Bush signs the bill, he said.

The popular H-1B visas are granted to foreigners in specialty professions such
as architecture, engineering, medicine, biotechnology and computer programming.
Under the program, employers must pay foreign workers the prevailing wage for
their job fields and show that qualified U.S. workers are not being passed over.

Unions and other critics say the program allows businesses to fill jobs with
cheaper foreign labor. Those who use the program say they cannot find enough
Americans with the necessary math, science and engineering skills.

In addition, Congress doubled H-1B visa application fees from $1,000 to $2,000.
Small businesses with fewer than 25 employees pay fees totaling $1,250 for each
application. The legislation also expands the authority of the Labor Department
to investigate employers.

On a separate visa issue, Congress tightened rules for using L-1 visas, which
allow companies to transfer employees from overseas offices to U.S. offices
while paying the employees their home-country wages. Lawmakers had been
suspicious that abuse in the program was putting Americans out of work.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              123 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 27, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Guest Worker Solution

SECTION: Editorial; A30

LENGTH: 159 words


When did it become politically incorrect to enforce our laws?

Law enforcement should not have to apologize for enforcing the law, and if the
day laborers are here illegally, they should face repercussions for breaking the
law ["Day Laborers to Protest Virginia Arrests," Metro, Nov. 19].

Latinos are a growing population, but that is not an excuse for exempting them
from our laws. As a country founded on the rule of law, we cannot pick and
choose which laws to obey and which segments of our population must obey them.
Communities across the country are dealing with not just a few hundred day
laborers but tens of thousands.

Perhaps the solution isn't to stop enforcing our laws but for these day laborers
to obtain temporary guest-worker permits before they come to the United States
and thus be assured of jobs when they get here. That would certainly be a better
solution for both the communities and the workers.

LINDA GALLAGHER

Blacksburg, Va.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              124 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Pay the Crab Pickers More

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 201 words


The Feb. 28 Metro article on the supposed inability of the Maryland crab
industry to find workers did not make enough of the issue of the wage rate being
offered. The employers are paying the federal minimum wage of $5.15 per hour or
a piece rate that apparently doesn't often yield more than that.

Usually, farm workers are the lowest-paid group of employees, but crab pickers
may have them beat. The average farm worker's hourly wage in the region is now
more than $8, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Agricultural
employers in Maryland who seek  "guest workers" under the H-2A program, saying
they can't find any U.S. farm workers to fill farm jobs, must offer $8.50 per
hour and free housing. A loophole in the regulations regarding the H-2B
non-agricultural guest-worker program allows crab businesses to pay a lower
piece rate wage or the federal minimum wage.

Employers should offer higher wages in response to the laws of supply and
demand. Instead, they are spending money on lobbyists to fix the H-2B
guest-worker program so that they can get more minimum-wage workers from foreign
countries.

BRUCE GOLDSTEIN

Co-Executive Director

Farmworker Justice Fund Inc.

Washington

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              125 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 28, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Gates Cites Hiring Woes, Criticizes Visa Restrictions

BYLINE: David A. Vise, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E05

LENGTH: 615 words


Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates said yesterday the software giant is having
enormous difficulty filling computer jobs in the United States as a result of
tight visa restrictions on foreign workers and a declining interest among U.S.
students in computer science.

Speaking on a technology panel at the Library of Congress, Gates said a decline
in the number of U.S. students pursuing careers in science and technology is
hurting Microsoft in the short run, and could have serious long-term
consequences for the U.S. economy if the problem is not addressed.

"We are very concerned that the U.S. will lose its competitive position. For
Microsoft, it means we are having a tougher time hiring," Gates said. "The jobs
are there, and they are good-paying jobs, but we don't have the same pipeline."

Microsoft conducts 85 percent of its research in this country. "We are very tied
to the United States" when it comes to doing research and development on the
company's Windows and Microsoft Office products, he said.

Gates called on the Bush administration and Congress to relax visa restrictions
so more foreign workers could be hired to fill technology jobs. Tighter
restrictions on foreign workers were imposed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.

Gates said visa restrictions are keeping too many bright, educated people from
working in the United States. "A policy that limits too many smart people coming
to the United States is questionable," Gates said. "The visa issue doesn't make
sense."

Rep. David Dreier (R.-Calif.) defended the visa restrictions, saying they are
driven by the responsibility of the federal government to protect U.S. citizens
from terrorism. He said the Microsoft chairman's description of the problem
ignored the harsh realities of fighting foreign terrorist threats.

"We still have to focus on border security," said Dreier, who also appeared on
the technology panel. "We can't be so naive."

Shirley M. Tilghman, president of Princeton University, said during the
discussion that a significant part of the problem is that U.S. schools,
including universities, discourage girls and women from sticking with subjects
such as math, science and engineering. With women making up more than half of
all U.S. college graduates, she said such discouragement translates into a lack
of trained computer science and technology talent.

"Too often," she said, of both male and female students, "by the time they get
to us, they are math-phobic or science-phobic."

Richard F. Rashid, senior vice president of Microsoft Research, said he recently
told his son, who is an undergraduate studying computer science, that he would
have plenty of jobs to choose from when he graduates.

"We're hiring as many people from college campuses as we can, but there are just
not enough of them available," Rashid said.

Gates said the combination of tighter visa restrictions and increasing
opportunity in rapidly growing economies in China and India means that more
foreign students who study at U.S. universities are returning home to work,
rather than seeking jobs in the United States. China, he noted, is generating
four times as many new engineers annually as the United States.

The Microsoft chairman said rapid growth in China and India also expands the
opportunity for U.S. companies to sell products on world markets. But he said
the nation risks losing competitive ground to these economies over time if the
dearth of scientific talent translates into a great erosion of the traditional
U.S. advantage in software and technical innovation.

"There is no doubt that the U.S.'s relative position will decline even if we do
all the right things," Gates said.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              126 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 5, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

US Airways Reports Wider Loss

SECTION: Financial; E02

LENGTH: 1309 words


US Airways Group, which is considering a merger with America West Airlines that
would allow it to exit bankruptcy protection, revised its first-quarter loss to
include $91 million in pension costs. The loss widened 48 percent, to $282
million, or $5.13 a share, from the $191 million reported April 29. The loss in
last year's first quarter was $177 million. The Arlington carrier said costs
linked to pension liability were recorded on its income statement rather than on
its balance sheet. Separately, the airline said it will remove 10 aircraft from
its fleet in August.

U.S. businesses can submit applications for additional H-1B visas beginning May
12. The Department of Homeland Security's immigration agency said an additional
20,000 such visas would be made available for foreign workers with advanced
degrees from U.S. institutions. The announcement ended months of speculation on
who qualified for the visas.

Growth in U.S. services slowed in April, as rising costs led companies to cut
back on orders and hiring. The Institute for Supply Management's index for
non-manufacturing companies decreased to 61.7 last month from 63.1 in March. The
gauge has shown expansion, marked by readings greater than 50, every month since
April 2003.

The Labor Department warned the AFL-CIO against urging pension funds to choose
financial firms based on their stance on President Bush's proposal to add
private accounts to Social Security. The letter, which was prompted by
complaints from Republican lawmakers, said federal rules prohibit pensions from
using their funds to promote "views on Social Security or any other broad policy
issue." The AFL-CIO, which opposes Bush's proposal, said it has no disagreement
with the letter and has been telling pension funds and union members to act
within the law.

Delta Air Lines said it signed Mesa Air Group's Freedom Airlines as a regional
carrier, filling a void left when Atlantic Coast Airlines became Independence
Air. Under the agreement, Freedom will operate up to 30 regional jets on routes
in Delta's network for 12 years, with the first plane beginning service as early
as October.

Ford's Primus finance unit was ordered by a federal judge to mediate a lawsuit
claiming the company discriminated against black car buyers by allowing dealers
to mark up interest rates. Judge Aleta A. Trauger had previously ordered Primus
to reach a settlement by April 25 with attorneys for the car buyers or face an
order stopping the practice.

American Tower said it had agreed to acquire rival SpectraSite in a $3.1 billion
deal that would create a network of 22,600 wireless and broadcast towers, making
it the nation's largest such company. American Tower would issue 181 million
shares for SpectraSite, and its shareholders would own about 59 percent of the
combined company. The deal is subject to approval by shareholders and
regulators.

Former HealthSouth chief executive Richard M. Scrushy resisted firing finance
chief William T. Owens, who was later revealed as key to the firm's accounting
fraud, former director Sage Givens testified under questioning from prosecutors
at Scrushy's trial. Scrushy's defense claims Owens went to the FBI and falsely
blamed the fraud on Scrushy after learning the board wanted to fire him.

Theodore C. Sihpol III's first trade for Canary Capital Partners was a late
trade, a former hedge fund broker testified. Noah Lerner, a former broker with
Canary, said that at 4:11 p.m. on May 16, 2001, he asked the former Bank of
America broker to buy $10 million worth of shares in three mutual funds. "I got
to find my technician, and uh, we will make it happen," Sihpol was heard telling
Lerner in a taped telephone conversation. The May 16 order tickets were stamped
3:45 p.m., Lerner said. Sihpol is accused of helping now-defunct Canary engage
in the illegal late trading of mutual funds.

A former Enron Broadband employee testified that one of five former broadband
executives on trial for fraud told him that he would leave behind a fortune by
quitting in January 2000, less than three weeks before top Enron executives
dazzled Wall Street with a presentation. The ex-employee, Bill Collins,
testified that he was so convinced that analysts who influence the stock price
would see through the hype that he quit and sold all the stock he could, fearing
the share price would tank.

Nike will stop selling shoes and other products to Sears after October. Sears
was purchased by Kmart Holding in March. Nike may be concerned about damaging
its brand if the shoes are sold  at Kmart's discount stores, said Debbie
Millman, president of brand consultant Sterling Group.

Lazard, the investment bank led by Bruce Wasserstein, raised $854.6 million in
an initial public offering, selling 34.2 million Class A shares at $25 each and
ending 157 years of family control of the largest closely held securities firm.
Lazard's managing directors will keep 66.3 percent of the voting power.

Yahoo shifted its online video search tool out of its test phase and added
indexing to several media sources, including CBS News, MTV and the Discovery
Channel. The video-search channel was launched in "beta" form in December. The
video clips available at http://video.search.yahoo.com include movie previews,
excerpts from previously broadcast television shows and original content.

Google released the Google Web Accelerator, free downloadable software that
speeds up Internet searches over high-speed connections. The software, released
in beta, is available at http://labs.google.com.

Fresenius Medical Care of Germany said it plans to buy Nashville-based Renal
Care Group for $48 per share, about $3.5 billion. Fresenius is one of the
biggest dialysis providers worldwide, with about 126,000 patients. Renal Care
Group provides dialysis and other kidney care to more than 30,000 patients at
425 outpatient centers and more than 200 hospitals.

The European Central Bank kept its key interest rate at 2 percent, where it has
been since June 2003, as economic confidence slips and growth prospects appear
weak in Europe. It all but ruled out any cuts.

Trade ministers broke a deadlock on agriculture tariffs that had pitted the
European Union against influential trade powers such as Brazil and Australia.
The deal resolves a highly complex dispute on the way flat-rate import duties
should be converted into more common percentage tariffs, based on the goods'
value. The calculations are needed before a discussion about cutting tariffs can
begin.

Lumenos of Alexandria will be acquired by WellPoint, the nation's largest health
insurance provider, for $185 million. Lumenos, a private company that offers
self-insured employers plans based on health savings accounts, has about 214,000
participants. WellPoint has about 100,000 members in such plans.

Time Warner said first-quarter profit rose less than 1 percent, to $963 million,
largely on growth in its cable business. Revenue rose 3 percent, to $10.48
billion.

Duke Energy said first-quarter profit more than doubled, to $868 million from
$311 million. Revenue rose 2 percent, to $5.75 billion.

Whole Foods Market said profit in its second fiscal quarter rose 22 percent, to
$42 million, on strong demand for organic foods and high-margin private-label
brands. Revenue rose 20 percent, to $1.09 billion.

IAC/InterActiveCorp, parent company of the Home Shopping Network and
Ticketmaster, said first-quarter profit rose 74 percent, to $72.2 million, led
by IAC Travel. After dividends, profit was $69 million. Revenue rose 14 percent,
to $1.65 billion.

News Corp. said profit in its fiscal third quarter declined 8 percent, to $400
million, because of a restructuring charge. Revenue rose 17 percent, to $6.04
billion.

Compiled from reports by the Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Dow Jones News
Service and Washington Post staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              127 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 3, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Types of Visas

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 164 words


*  H-1B visa: Allows highly skilled professionals to work in the United States
for up to six years.

*  H-4 visa: Allows dependents of H-1B visa holders to live in the United
States.

Cannot work.

*  L visa: Allows key foreign executives to transfer to the U.S. operations of
their companies.

*  L-2 visa: Allows dependents of L visa holders to live in the United States.
They can apply for work permits.

*  E visa: Allows people who work for companies that trade with the United
States or who have invested substantial sums in U.S. ventures to work in this
country for an extended period.

*  E dependents: May apply for work authorization.

*  Permanent Resident Card (known as green card): Allows foreign citizens and
their families to live and work in the United States. The process can be
lengthy. Last month, U.S. immigration authorities announced they had exceeded
green card quotas for India and China, probably adding years to the long wait
for applicants from those countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              128 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 8, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 269 words


SAN DIEGO -- Mayor Dick Murphy was declared the winner over write-in challenger
Councilwoman Donna Frye, but the announcement Tuesday may not settle the mayoral
election. Frye said she might seek a vote recount or file a lawsuit demanding
that ballots be counted if voters wrote Frye's name but did not darken an oval
next to it, as required.

*  PONTIAC, Mich. -- Confessed serial killer Coral Eugene Watts, 51, was
sentenced to life in prison for a 1979 murder. Watts had received immunity in
Texas for 12 killings and a 60-year sentence for burglary with intent to murder.
Before Michigan prosecutors won his conviction in the killing of Helen Dutcher,
36, Watts had been scheduled to be released by Texas in 2006 because mandatory
release laws and an appeals court ruling had cut more than 35 years from his
sentence.

*  NEW ORLEANS -- A girl, 8, was suspended for nine days for bringing to school
what appeared to be about 30 "Jell-O shots." Under the school's ban on the
possession or distribution of a lookalike, the girl's suspension will stand even
though the gelatin contained no alcohol, a school official said.

*  NEWARK -- Jails and detention centers across the country must stop using
police dogs to control immigration detainees as of Saturday, under a new policy
issued by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. National Public Radio last
month aired a report describing a dog attack at the Passaic County Jail in
Paterson, N.J. The jail, which houses 200 to 400 detainees for $77 a day each,
stopped using dogs around detainees last month but recently resumed the
practice.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              129 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 20, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

From AT& T Unit, a Way to Find Cells for Inmates

BYLINE: Roseanne Gerin, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: Financial; D04

LENGTH: 601 words


Federal prison guards can rest assured that their inmates will  find a cell for
the night, thanks to a Web-based system that lets law enforcement officials
quickly locate available bed space.

AT&T Government Solutions of Vienna won a five-year, $3 million contract
extension to continue providing support for the National Repository for
Detention Space Availability.

The program uses a central database of locations that lets federal law
enforcement officials quickly identify where prisoners can be housed in a
particular geographic area. The Justice Department's Office of the Federal
Detention Trustee and other agencies, including the U.S. Marshals Service, the
Federal Bureau of Prisons and the  Homeland Security Department's Immigration
and Customs Enforcement bureau, use the repository to find state, local and
private detention space available for federal use.

The repository is similar to a hotel search site on the Internet, said Heidi
Myers, AT&T's program director for the project. It provides a search screen with
criteria for what is needed, including medical and transportation services, the
per diem amounts charged to house offenders and types of prisoners housed (men,
women or juveniles), Myers said.

Federal law enforcement officials also can search for detention facilities
within a specific distance and see estimates of the number of vacant beds. The
repository provides maps of the detention centers' locations and contact
information so users can call to confirm a space and arrange transport.

Previously, law enforcement officials had to make rounds of calls to various
prisons for this information. The automated repository is a more cost-effective
and efficient way of locating and managing detention space, Myers said.

The Office of the Federal Detention Trustee awarded AT&T and subcontractor
Appriss Inc. of Louisville the original one-year contract to build the
repository in July 2003. The Internet-based tool was launched March 1, 2004.

The original contract was valued at $194,000 but grew to $709,000 with several
customer changes, Myers said.

Under the $3 million contract extension, AT&T will provide certification and
accreditation for the repository, while Appriss will provide specialized systems
and data links for real-time information.

The Office of the Federal Detention Trustee was established in September 2001.
Reporting to the deputy attorney general, it coordinates detention activities
for the Justice Department and for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The
office reported that more than 63,700 people were in federal detention at the
end of fiscal 2002, the most recent data available on its Web site.

AT&T Government Solutions and Appriss also worked together in July 2000 on the
Justice Department's Victim Notification System, an automated program that
notifies victims of federal crimes about the custody and court status of
defendants under the jurisdiction of the FBI, the Federal Bureau of Prisons and
U.S. attorneys. Victims can receive the information via e-mail, regular mail or
phone. They also can log in to a Web site that was launched in March.

Founded in 1994, Appriss is a privately held company that specializes in such
services. AT&T Government Solutions provides telecommunications and information
technology services for the federal government. Its parent company, AT&T Corp.
of Bedminster, N.J., employs 47,600 workers and had 2004 revenue of $30.5
billion.

Roseanne Gerin is a staff writer with Washington Technology. For more details on
this and other technology contracts, go to www.washingtontechnology.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              130 of 259 DOCUMENTS


                               Washingtonpost.com

                       October 21, 2004 Thursday 10:30 PM

An Honest Debate About Immigration

SOURCE: washingtonpost.com

BYLINE: Marcela Sanchez, Special to washingtonpost.com

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 758 words

HIGHLIGHT: WASHINGTON -- What part of "illegal" don't you understand?


WASHINGTON -- What part of "illegal" don't you understand?

For anyone who writes about immigration, as I do, this is a familiar question.
It was posed to me again this week as I read e-mails from readers who have been
distressed with my views on illegal immigration. Put simply, many dislike the
fact that I do not condemn outright those immigrants who are here illegally.

Last week I replied to a few dozen of those readers and asked them to relay a
personal experience that has helped shape their current view of illegal
immigration. Some described horrors of being victims of Mexican gang violence,
others shared their plans to pick up and move out of their homes in frustration
over what they consider the disrespectful behavior of Hispanic newcomers in
their neighborhoods.

Many sounded particularly tired of politicians, both Democrats and Republicans,
big business and the media that seem happily blind to the impact that immigrants
have on jobs and communities. The rage is real and is echoed in the 49 percent
of Americans who want to reduce immigration, according to a Gallup poll in July.

For more than 50 years it has been illegal to enter the country without proper
documentation. Yet for many it is obvious that the law is not enforced
sufficiently, if at all. Indeed there are not endless busloads, trainloads or
planeloads of people being deported in an effort to rid the country of the
estimated 8 million to 12 million illegal immigrants currently living here.

What there is, instead, is a system in place that seems ever more accommodating
to their presence. Their children can attend public schools. The federal
government furnishes them a tax identification number if they want to pay taxes,
which many do. In some states they can obtain driver's licenses, and some local
governments provide shelters for day laborers who previously waited at gas
stations and shopping malls for a day's work.

Too easily the "negative" impressions of those directly affected by illegal
immigration are ignored or held in disdain because they might sound irrational
or racist. The truth is, as I learned from readers, many are speaking their
minds in a way that is more honest than the public debate on this issue.

Leaders in Washington do not match their sincerity and directness. If anything,
their winning strategy this electoral season has been to avoid the issue
altogether. President Bush and Sen. John Kerry only briefly addressed it during
their last debate last week, even as moderator Bob Schieffer noted he got more
e-mails about that issue than any other.

Kerry promised he would seriously control the borders and enforce employer
sanctions. President Bush, for his part, suggested that the flow of illegal
immigrants from Mexico is unstoppable as long as workers make 10 times less
there than here.

What both candidates know but Washington in general won't admit is the role the
United States played and continues to play in creating the situation that
readers decry. Thousands of Salvadorans and Guatemalans fled wars that were
financed in part by the United States in the 1980s, and came north. While some
have managed to legalize their situation, others hold temporary permits to work.
Either way they continue to attract others who come without papers.

Despite the success of the North American Free Trade Agreement, it has led to
more than a million people losing their jobs in rural areas of Mexico. Signed by
President Clinton and now touted by Bush as the model for the rest of the
region, NAFTA should send the signal that more immigrants are to come as other
free trade agreements such as CAFTA, with Central American countries, are
pursued so lustily.

For the third time over the last quarter-century the level of U.S. uneasiness
about immigration is at a peak. The previous two times the country took two very
different paths in response. The first, in the 1980s, culminated with an amnesty
program for some 3 million people living here illegally. The second led to the
immigration reform of 1996 that, combined with other laws passed that year,
amounted to some of the harshest measures adopted against immigrants in decades.

In other words, both amnesty and hard-line approaches have been pursued before
and today's uneasiness is only bound to increase as long as current and future
leaders in Washington fail to speak with the candor that readers used to share
their experiences with me about the good and bad behind immigration.

Marcela Sanchez's e-mail address is desdewash@washpost.com.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 25, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Services Envisioned For Enclave;
Md. Community's Needs Long Neglected, Some Say

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 872 words


Charles Short stood in a field of balding grass, squinting into the sun -- and
the future.

To his left, near the low-rise, low-rent apartments where many of Langley Park's
residents live, was the land where his employer, the Catholic Archdiocese of
Washington, intends to build a two-story medical clinic. Beyond that, along the
chain-link fence lined with crushed beer cans, was where the youth services
building will go. And to his right, the abandoned brick building that gang
members keep spraying with graffiti will be razed to make way for a gym and a
600-seat chapel.

"If you can just stretch your imagination, you can see that it will be like a
village center, like a downtown for social services," said Short, the secretary
for social concerns for the archdiocese.

The archdiocese's project, the Mother Teresa Center, is at the heart of an
ambitious plan by nonprofit groups that have long assisted immigrants elsewhere
in the Washington area to create a hub of service agencies in Langley Park, an
immigrant enclave on the border of Prince George's and Montgomery counties.

In addition to the project on Merrimac Drive -- the center is due to open in two
years at the soonest, officials said -- Montgomery-based CASA de Maryland is
working to establish an employment training and legal aid center in a boarded-up
mansion a half-block away. The District-based Latin American Youth Center, which
would run tutoring and mentoring programs out of the archdiocese's planned youth
services building, also hopes to open a smaller office in Langley Park as soon
as this spring.

The initiative marks a milestone in Prince George's history. Until recently, the
county was known for its decades-long transformation from a majority-white to a
majority-black population and its emergence as a magnet for affluent African
Americans. But the county's Latino population rose during the 1990s and stood at
7 percent of the population by 2000. More recent census estimates put that
figure at 9 percent.

Langley Park, a sprawling zone of modest houses and garden apartment complexes,
has been the entry point for many newcomers, most of whom are immigrants.
According to the 2000 Census, 64 percent of Langley Park's residents are Latino
and 17 percent have incomes below the poverty line.

Many of them receive care at a large county health center in nearby Cheverly.

Immigrant advocates, however, have said that the needs of residents have been
neglected for years because of the community's proximity to Silver Spring in
Montgomery County, which has an even larger Latino population.

"This community has been caught in this question of, are they in Prince George's
or are they in Montgomery County, and which jurisdiction should take
responsibility," said Lori Kaplan, head of the Latin American Youth Center.
"Meanwhile, there are thousands of kids and families who are very low income and
not a lot of the infrastructure and support services we have in D.C. . . . The
need there is just tremendous."

Gustavo Torres, president of CASA de Maryland, credits Prince George's County
Executive Jack B. Johnson (D) with helping to break the impasse. Torres'
organization, based in Silver Spring just blocks from the Langley Park border,
considered opening a branch in Prince George's eight years ago. "Almost half of
the services we provide are to residents from Prince George's," Torres said.

CASA de Maryland also has long wanted to open a hiring hall -- separate from its
employment center -- for laborers who gather to wait for work at University
Boulevard and New Hampshire Avenue in Langley Park, to the consternation of many
area businesses.

But Torres said his organization was deterred by a rocky relationship with
former Prince George's county executive Wayne K. Curry (D). Johnson, by
contrast, made overtures to the Latino community within weeks of his election in
November 2002 -- including appointing a Hispanic liaison, William Campos. Last
week, Campos won the Democratic Party's nomination to the County Council seat
vacated by Peter A. Shapiro, representing the area that includes Langley Park.

Encouraged by such developments and by the support of Shapiro, CASA de Maryland
has been negotiating with the owner of a large complex of apartment buildings in
Langley Park, Sawyer Realty Holdings, to lease the mansion, on a sprawling lawn
in the center of that complex.

Even if a deal is reached, some hurdles will remain, including the
yet-undetermined cost of renovating the mansion. CASA de Maryland estimates it
will need $425,000 annually to operate the center, but Torres said that the
group has secured commitments of $40,000 from private foundations and that it
will ask Prince George's County for assistance.

Sawyer Realty has agreed to effectively donate to the archdiocese three acres a
half-block from the mansion. And Short said the church has lined up a builder
and raised $6 million of the $12 million needed to build the center it
envisions.

If all the plans go forward, Short predicted, Langley Park could become a
national model. "Years ago," he said, "people saw this place as a helpless
morass of human suffering and political confusion. Now I'm hoping that people
will see this as a place of leadership."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              132 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 25, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Va. Student Unsure of His Standing;
Colleges' Views Differ On Immigrant's Status

BYLINE: Amy Argetsinger, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1249 words


As he began to apply to colleges last winter, Arlington resident Brian Marroquin
knew that his family's up-in-the-air immigration status might require a bit of
explaining. Emigrants of Guatemala, they have spent more than a dozen years on
the waiting list for interviews that could help grant them permanent asylum in
the United States.

When the letters arrived in the spring from five Virginia public institutions,
the responses surprised Marroquin:

Virginia Tech and George Mason University accepted him with few questions asked,
he said.

Virginia Commonwealth University also welcomed him, but as an international
student -- even offering him a ride from the airport.

James Madison University and Christopher Newport University found his academic
record worthy of admission, but turned him away, deeming him an illegal
immigrant.

It was the first time anyone had called him that, said Marroquin, 18, a
Washington-Lee High School graduate who has a Social Security number, a Virginia
learner's permit to drive and a work permit that allowed him to intern at the
U.S. Department of Energy.

"I didn't know what to make of them," he said of the letters. "It was very
confusing."

The conflicting responses are the latest wrinkle -- and perhaps an unforeseen
consequence -- in Virginia's two-year debate over whether illegal immigrants
should be allowed to attend public colleges. In February, a federal judge ruled
that Virginia colleges have the right to deny admission to illegal immigrants.
Now, some colleges are rejecting undocumented immigrants, and others acknowledge
that they are turning a blind eye to immigration status in the admissions
process.

Advocates for immigrants said hundreds of students such as Marroquin, living
legally in Virginia with unresolved asylum petitions, might be getting shut out
of higher education as a consequence.

"Immigration law is not as simple as you're here legally, you're not here
legally," said Josh Bernstein of the National Immigration Law Center. "Schools
don't have the legal expertise to determine who is here legally. Why should they
be in the business of doing that?"

Marroquin's situation provides plenty of ambiguities. The judge in the federal
case found that the teenager's immigration status made him "unlawfully present"
in the country, therefore, he could not join a suit against colleges for
treating immigrants unfairly.

But a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services noted that someone
with the kind of work permit Marroquin has be considered legal by the federal
government.

Marroquin's story began in November 1989, when he came to Virginia on a tourist
visa with his mother and two older sisters. He was 31/2 years old.

His father, who soon joined them, had left Guatemala a year earlier, fearing
that his role in student political protests would draw reprisal. Marroquin said
his grandfather and uncle were killed for their political activities.

"My father's life was threatened, and he knew we were going to die if we didn't
leave," he said. The family moved in with an uncle and grandmother in Arlington,
his father got work as an archives clerk in the District and his mother cleaned
houses.

Marroquin came up through the public schools, enrolling in the gifted-student
programs and making honor roll. He threw himself into volunteer work and became
president of his school's Latin American Student Association.

Meantime, his family had embarked on the lengthy process to make their stay
permanent. In 1990, before their visas expired, they applied for political
asylum, and though their application remains in that pipeline, they filed a
second application in the late 1990s through another process created for
immigrants from former communist-bloc countries.

Immigration advocates and a federal spokesman said it is not unusual for
applicants to wait so many years in a crowded pipeline for the interviews that
could lead to permanent residency.

"They are paying taxes, they are doing everything a legal resident is doing,"
said Luis Parada, a District-based attorney for Marroquin. "It's not their fault
they have to wait 14 years."

By applying to colleges before his family's case was resolved, Marroquin found
himself in the midst of a debate about immigrant education. In 2002, the office
of Virginia attorney general issued a memo advising public colleges not to
enroll illegal immigrants.

The memo drew an outcry from immigrant advocates, who noted that many other
states not only are admitting illegal immigrants but also are starting to grant
them in-state tuition benefits, under the logic that most were brought to this
country as children. The Maryland General Assembly passed a similar tuition
measure last year, but it was vetoed by Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R).

With the failure of a federal lawsuit brought on behalf of immigrant students,
however, Virginia colleges appear to be carving out different responses.

College officials generally would not discuss the specifics of Marroquin's
situation, citing confidentiality rules. Spokesmen for James Madison, in
Harrisonburg, and Christopher Newport, in Newport News, said their schools
followed the advice of Virginia Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore (R) and do not
admit illegal immigrants.

"The federal court said that it was permissible to deny admission [to illegal
immigrants] as long as federal standards were followed to determine who is
illegal," Thomas R. Shrout of Christopher Newport said.

He added that the judge found Marroquin to be "unlawfully present."

Parada, Marroquin's attorney, said the judge followed a narrow interpretation of
immigration statutes and ignored federal memos stating that people with
political asylum applications pending can be considered "legally present."

VCU spokeswoman Pamela Lepley said the school does not "knowingly enroll
undocumented students." She could not explain why Marroquin received an
acceptance letter from the school's office of international students but
suggested that it could have stemmed from confusion about his citizenship
status.

Admissions directors at Virginia Tech and George Mason said they do not consider
a student's immigration or citizenship status.

"It's solely on academic standards," said Mildred Johnson, associate director of
undergraduate admissions at Virginia Tech. George Mason officials said they
decided this year not to tie enrollment to immigration status because they did
not think it fit their role as educators.

"The idea that universities would need to develop expertise in the very complex
area of immigration law is both problematic and probably unrealistic," said
George Mason Dean of Admissions Andrew Flagel. "Given the number of students
with diverse backgrounds and immigration status, that didn't seem consistent
with what we needed to do."

Meanwhile, with his enrollment secured at Virginia Tech, Marroquin has moved on
to another battle -- trying to gain in-state tuition privileges. Without
permanent residency, the 15-year Arlington resident is considered an
out-of-state student and will be charged $16,580 for tuition and fees this year,
rather than the $5,858 charged to Virginians.

He is considering whether to challenge in state court Virginia Tech's
determination that he is a nonresident. And he is holding out hope that his
asylum application might be processed soon.

"It's been so long, but it's so close," he said. "It's frustrating that that
amount of time can make or break whether I can pay for college."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              133 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 26, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Homeland Security's Fugitive Operations

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 182 words


The Department of Homeland Security created the Fugitive Operations program in
2002 to track down illegal immigrants who have received government orders to
leave the country or report to immigration officials. The following is a look at
the program:

*  Estimated number of fugitives in the United States: more than 460,000.

*  Estimated number of new fugitives each year: 40,000.

*  Number of Fugitive Operations apprehensions between October 2003 and August
2004: 9,571.

*  Number of Fugitive Operations apprehensions between October 2002 and October
2003: 3,411.

*  Approximate number of Fugitive Operations agents nationwide: 90.

*  Estimated average cost of removing one fugitive: $8,000.

*  Estimated cost of removing all 460,000 fugitives: $3.68 billion.

*  Budget for Fugitive Operations between Oct. 1, 2003, and Sept. 30, 2004:
$16.8 million.

*  Budget request for fiscal 2005: $66.8 million.

*  Estimated percentage of fugitives apprehended who have committed sex offenses
and other violent crimes: 11 percent.

Source: Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              134 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 1, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Man Found Guilty in Va. Sought by Peru in Killings

BYLINE: Allan Lengel, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A26

LENGTH: 613 words


A 44-year-old construction worker found guilty of immigration fraud in
Alexandria is wanted in Peru in connection with at least 26 killings as an
alleged member of a paramilitary death squad in the early 1990s, U.S. and
Peruvian officials said yesterday.

The U.S. attorney's office in Alexandria obtained an arrest warrant last week to
extradite the man, Wilmer Yarleque Ordinola, to Peru, which is seeking his
extradition on charges of aggravated homicide, aggravated kidnapping and forced
disappearance. He is in the custody of the U.S. Marshals office in Alexandria.

Ordinola is charged in the killings of college students, a radio personality and
an 8-year-old boy as a member of the Colina Group, established by Vladimiro
Montesinos, Peru's former national intelligence director. Montesinos, who is now
imprisoned, served under former president Alberto Fujimori, who fled to Japan in
2000 after being charged with corruption and human rights abuses.

"This is a very serious case because he is allegedly a member of one of the
death squads," said Rodolfo Pereira, press counselor for Peru's embassy in
Washington. "The government of Peru hopes the extradition is granted."

Agents of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) arrested Ordinola
last Nov. 26 in Lorton at a construction site where he was working, authorities
said. He pleaded guilty to using a falsified U.S. residence document to obtain
work; he was sentenced on Jan. 21 to time served and turned over to ICE for
deportation proceedings.

"Mr. Ordinola is alleged to have participated in unspeakable acts of violence on
Peruvian citizens for which he should be held accountable," said Allan Doody,
special agent in charge of the ICE Washington field office.

Michael Lieberman, Ordinola's attorney in the immigration fraud case, did not
return phone calls seeking comment yesterday.

A federal court affidavit filed by the U.S. attorney's office last week outlined
Ordinola's alleged crimes in the Colina group.

One of the mass slayings took place before dawn on July 18, 1992, when the group
rounded up about 50 people at Enrique Guzman y Valle National University of
Education, called La Cantuta for the neighborhood where it is located. Donning
ski masks and carrying lime and shovels, they separated nine students and a
professor, drove them out of Lima in a truck, shot, killed and buried them.

Fujimori has denied charges that he approved of death squad killings during his
tenure as president, and Peru has been unsuccessful in its attempts to extradite
him from Japan.

A government-appointed commission reported last year that 69,000 people died or
disappeared in Peru between 1980 and 2000. The report detailed activities of the
Colina group.

Ordinola's alleged crimes also include an incident involving a radio reporter on
June 24, 1992, according to the court document filed in Alexandria. On that day,
Colina members went to the home of Pedro Yauri Bustamante, director of a radio
news and phone-in program, "Punto Final," that was critical of the Fujimori
government.

The agents seized Bustamante and took him to a beach. He was interrogated but
refused to answer questions, saying he was going to be killed in any case, the
affidavit said. He was shot in the head and buried on the beach.

In another case, the affidavit said, Ordinola and about nine other agents went
to a fundraising event on Nov. 3, 1991, in the Barrios Altos section of Lima
looking for government opposition members. Dressed in sports clothes and toting
machine guns with silencers, they forced people to lie on the ground, opened
fire and killed 15 of them, including an 8-year-old  boy, the affidavit said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              135 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 1, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

9/11 Panelists Oppose House Provisions

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 673 words


Members of the Sept. 11 commission called on House leaders yesterday to drop
controversial proposals regarding immigration and law enforcement power, saying
they could sink Congress's efforts to revamp the nation's intelligence
operations this fall.

In the strongest signal yet that they prefer the Senate's approach to key
recommendations from the report they issued in July, the commissioners also
insisted that a proposed national intelligence director have clear budgetary and
administrative control of Defense Department intelligence-gathering agencies.
The House bill, scheduled for floor debate next week, leaves much of that power
with the defense secretary.

Six of the commission's 10 members, including the chairman and vice chairman,
spoke to reporters in the Capitol before meeting privately with lawmakers. The
three Republicans and three Democrats urged congressional leaders to begin
narrowing differences in the two chambers' proposals in order to send a bill to
the president before adjournment this fall.

"The Senate bill is a giant step forward" and "the right vehicle for our
recommendations" regarding the executive branch, said  former New Jersey
governor Thomas H. Kean (R), the commission's chairman. He and his colleagues
gave much fainter praise to the House bill, which includes dozens of provisions
to boost federal powers to track or deport immigrants suspected of terrorist
ties.

"The House bill contains a number of proposals that go significantly beyond the
commission's recommendations," said  former representative Lee H. Hamilton
(D-Ind.), the commission's vice chairman. "We respectfully submit that
consideration of controversial provisions at this late hour can harm our shared
purpose in getting a good bill to the president before the 108th Congress
adjourns."

It was unclear how receptive to compromise House leaders might be. Immediately
after the news conference, John Feehery, spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert
(R-Ill.), told reporters, "The stuff that will drag the bill down, we won't do."
But later, after commissioners had met with Hastert's chief of staff, Feehery
declined to say which provisions, if any, might be removed from the House's
335-page bill.

"Controversy is in the eye of the beholder," he said. "We're going to do the
right thing" and produce a bill the president can sign.

Hamilton said items that should be dropped include "alien-removal provisions."
The House bill contains several measures that would make it easier for the
government to deport undocumented immigrants who have fallen under suspicion for
various reasons. They include a broader application of "expedited removal"
rules, higher barriers to obtaining asylum, and relaxed standards for sending
foreigners to countries where they might be tortured. Civil liberties groups and
some lawmakers have said the provisions could erode important constitutional
protections.

Kean, meanwhile, spoke sharply against House provisions -- and proposed Senate
amendments -- that would limit the national intelligence director's authority
over spending and personnel decisions in agencies including the National
Reconnaissance Office and National Security Agency. The House bill would keep
more of that power in the Pentagon.

"This is not an area where one can compromise," Kean said. "If you're not going
to create a strong national intelligence director, with powers both appointive
and over the budget, don't do it."

Senators next week will continue debating amendments to the Senate bill
sponsored by Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Joseph I. Lieberman (D-Conn.). A source
close to the Sept. 11 commission, who asked not to be named because of delicate
negotiations with lawmakers, predicted that the House will keep most of its
bill's provisions intact throughout next week's floor debate and votes.

The commissioners' hope, the source said, is that House leaders will drop some
of the most contentious provisions in the eventual House-Senate conference that
will have to resolve all differences between the  bills.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              136 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 7, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Place for 'Becoming an American';
Long a Haven for Immigrants, Rosario Career Center Finds Its Own Safe Shelter

BYLINE: Manny Fernandez, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T10

LENGTH: 1415 words


Sonia Gutierrez's school has had one mission, but many homes.

Since 1970, the Carlos Rosario International Career Center and Public Charter
School has helped generations of Washington area adult immigrants learn English
and rise  from the depths of low-wage jobs.

Gutierrez, the executive director, said the school seeks to help students -- men
and women from Latin America, Asia and Africa trying to find their way in a new
country with a new language -- "reach that dream of becoming an American."

But Gutierrez has struggled to find a permanent site. The school rented space
for years in church basements and public schools around Washington.

All of that changed for good last month.

Gutierrez joined the faculty, staff, students and supporters at the grand
opening of the school's new home, a historic red-brick building at 1100 Harvard
St. NW in Columbia Heights. The 84,000-square-foot structure has 30 classrooms,
two technology labs with 120 computers, a 400-seat auditorium and a bookstore.
Day and night, the three-story building buzzes with students -- the youngest 16,
the oldest 82 -- taking English as a Second Language (ESL) classes, General
Education Development (GED) courses, citizenship training and other classes.

"This building," said Gutierrez, 65, "really feels like finally we're home."

The security of a permanent home is a milestone for Carlos Rosario
International, which has educated more than 50,000 immigrants in its
three-decade history. The school -- a unique D.C. public charter school that
serves older teenagers and adults exclusively -- is funded through the city's
charter school board, receiving $5,177 annually per student. It has been honored
by the U.S. Department of Education as a national model for adult education, but
its most significant achievements have been in changing the lives of students,
many of whom consider the teachers and staff a second family.

"An institution like Carlos Rosario is an example of where people can come in
and see their dreams come true," said Moroccan-born Brahim Rawi, 41, who
enrolled in the school in 1989,  six months after coming to the United States.

He worked as a busboy at an Italian restaurant in Bethesda, speaking only a
little English, but after two years of English and computer classes, he went on
to graduate from Rosario before continuing his education elsewhere.

Now, he's a vice president at Bank of America, managing the Mount Pleasant
branch. "The school," he said, "was a door opening . . . an open door for
opportunities."

On Harvard Street NW, in second-floor classrooms with hardwood floors and tall
windows, immigrants assemble and disassemble computers in a technology course
and down the hall study the fundamentals of English. "People is or people are?"
ESL teacher Hugh Beshers asked about 28 Asian and Hispanic students. The answer
came back loud and confident: "People are."

Inside administrative offices, a larger-than-life picture of the late Carlos M.
Rosario, a Puerto Rican-born educator and Latino political leader in the
District who founded the first incarnation of the school in 1970, looks out over
a white-painted lobby with flat-screen Dell computers and glass countertops.

"It's quite a remarkable event to have such a beautiful school with dignity,"
said Eugenio Arene, executive director of the Council of Latino Agencies, a
coalition representing social service providers in the District's Hispanic
community. "This is a model for education for the city, for the region and for
the entire country. We all learn best in the best environment, and this is the
best environment."

The school first occupied an old building on Irving Street NW in the early
1970s. The students squeezed  into a few upstairs rooms, often shivering without
heat through the winters and watching the roaches head for cover when someone
flicked on the lights. In 1978  the school moved to a building in Georgetown, at
35th and T streets NW. It  was the school's headquarters until budget cuts
forced D.C. school officials to close it abruptly in 1996. "I thought that was
our building," Gutierrez said.

But Gutierrez -- who was raised in Puerto Rico and came to the United States in
1968 -- was determined. She recruited former teachers and reopened the center as
a private nonprofit school in 1997 at Calvary Baptist Church in Chinatown.

For seven years, the Rosario school was scattered throughout various churches,
public schools and other buildings. Some years, classes were held at one church
during the day and at another church at night.

It was a rootless feeling. "The teachers were in borrowed space -- they couldn't
put up anything on the walls," said Ana Maria Nuevo, 29, who has worked at the
school for 10 years as a volunteer, instructor and administrator. "It was a
challenge."

The school's new Harvard Street NW location has a long history among D.C.
educators. The building opened in 1913 and housed the old Wilson Teachers
College. It then became part of the D.C. Teachers College, which focused on
producing teachers for city public schools and was one of the three institutions
that merged to form the University of the District of Columbia.

By the time the Rosario school leased the building in 2001, it was an abandoned
shell with broken windows. So the school embarked on an $18 million renovation,
raising  money through grants from local foundations, tax-exempt bonds
underwritten by the Bank of America and financial contributions from the faculty
and staff.

Gutierrez said the move-in gives her a "feeling of great accomplishment, a
feeling of happiness knowing that our dream came true and a feeling that now we
can really begin again." She is more than the executive director; since she
joined the school in 1972, Gutierrez has come to embody the spirit of the place,
inspiring students and staff with her you-can-do-it message.

"All they need is a little push and they fly," she once said of the 1,200
immigrants from more than 50 countries who study at the school.

Those students often work two or three jobs as janitors and cooks and enroll in
ESL classes at night. Some are grandparents in their 70s learning English for
the first time. Graduates can be found throughout the Washington area in a
variety of fields. One opened his own construction company.

Gustavo F. Velasquez, director of the Mayor's Office on Latino Affairs, said the
school has helped smooth the process of assimilation for the Washington area's
growing immigrant population, evolving over the years into a "one-stop shop"
providing job skills, literacy training and something more. "You're going to
need also the emotional support, the encouragement, the empowerment," Velasquez
said.

Inside a kitchen on the lower level one morning last week, 15 students in white
coats and tall, white chef hats hustled to make 300 quesadillas for lunch
(culinary arts students get hands-on experience by cooking the food served in
the cafeteria). Instructor Benjamin Velasquez, 42, who is originally from San
Salvador and who learned English at Rosario, looked at his roster and counted
off the nations represented in his kitchen: El Salvador, Brazil, Mexico,
Argentina, Ethiopia, Sudan, Peru. The list went on.

"It's like the United Nations," said Allison Kokkoros, managing director of the
school's Career Center.

Indeed, the school is  as linguistically and ethnically diverse as the
Washington area. Students speak more than 25 different languages, and an
administrator said it is not uncommon for an instructor to have 15 students from
15 different countries.

Elizabeth Liburd, 28, who came to the United States from the Dominican Republic
speaking only a little English, helped prepare the quesadillas in the kitchen.
After a year of  courses at Rosario, her English improved, and now she dreams of
one day owning her own restaurant. "They were able to show me that I could have
a future if I want to," she said of the school. "It's not just classes. They
help you with every problem."

For Liburd, that included getting help with health insurance coverage.

Gutierrez said she believes that successful adult education should extend far
beyond the classroom and address the social needs of students. The school has
developed a support services office at the Harvard Street site that offers
students free tax preparation, counseling, career development and other
nonacademic assistance.

"We don't just deal with you as a student . . . but also we look at you as a
human being," Gutierrez said.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              137 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 9, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Terrorist Hunt Leads To Irish Immigrants;
Former Paramilitaries Are Threatened With Deportation After 9/11 Attacks

BYLINE: Mary Fitzgerald, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1464 words


When Ciaran Ferry walked out the rusting gates of Northern Ireland's most
notorious jail four years ago, he never expected to see the inside of a prison
cell again.

Ferry, a member of the paramilitary Irish Republican Army, had served just over
a third of his 22-year sentence for conspiracy to commit murder and arms
offenses. Along with more than 400 other paramilitary prisoners, the 28-year-old
was granted early release from the Maze prison as part of the Good Friday peace
accord, the U.S.-brokered political agreement that ended three decades of
violence in Northern Ireland.

Ferry and his new wife, Heaven, an American who had written to him during his
incarceration, decided to settle in the United States after police told them his
name had been discovered on the hit list of a rival paramilitary group. On an
immigration form filled out when he arrived, Ferry ticked the 'no' box in the
section asking if he had ever been convicted of a crime.

Ferry's past caught up with him when he attended a green card interview in
January 2003. Arrested by immigration officers, he has spent the past 21 months
in two Colorado prisons fighting deportation. His legal team argues that he is a
law-abiding family man who would face threats and harassment if forced to return
to Northern Ireland.

But to the Department of Homeland Security, Ferry and several other former Irish
paramilitaries facing deportation are convicted terrorists who lied about their
criminal pasts to enter the United States. The issue has galvanized Irish
American groups, many of whom believe the Bush administration is unfairly
hounding people such as Ferry to demonstrate progress in the war on terrorism.

Their supporters contend that many of those now targeted by the Department of
Homeland Security lived openly in this country for years before  anti-terrorism
laws were introduced after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

"I think we're in a predicament, given the changes in the law since 9/11 and all
that transpired out of 9/11," said Malachy McAllister, a former member of the
paramilitary Irish National Liberation Army who served three years in prison in
Northern Ireland for his involvement in a plot to kill two police officers. He
fled to Canada and then the United States in the mid-1990s, after loyalist
paramilitaries shot up his home in Belfast. Now living in New Jersey, McAllister
will find out later this year whether  his petition for asylum has been
successful.

Irish paramilitaries have sought refuge in the United States for decades, long
before the period of violence known as "the Troubles" erupted in the late 1960s.
Some have slipped into the country undetected and live quietly as illegal
immigrants. Others have married American citizens. A handful have been granted
political asylum.

The current debate hinges on the role paramilitaries played in Northern
Ireland's protracted conflict between loyalists who want to remain part of the
United Kingdom and republicans fighting for a united, independent Ireland. Those
facing deportation, for the most part former republican paramilitaries, justify
their failure to declare previous convictions by insisting that they were
soldiers in a war, not terrorists; political prisoners, not criminals -- the
latter a distinction that can strengthen claims for asylum. Some contend they
were unfairly convicted.

Immigration authorities, however, say it is up to the government to decide
whether a conviction was criminal or political.

"The whole thing boils down to the ideological argument of whether they were
political prisoners or terrorists. And 'terrorism' is a word that is full of
subjectivity," said Karen McElrath, an associate professor of sociology at
Queen's University in Northern Ireland and author of a book on the subject.

There is no doubt in Heaven Ferry's mind about how to categorize her husband.

"What Ciaran did was not terrorist-related," she said. "He was released from
jail under a political agreement -- that makes it very obviously political. This
is a guy who came here wanting peace, wanting a new quiet life with his family,
and they go after him? They're just too afraid to go after the real terrorists."

The government cannot afford to make such distinctions, countered Robert S.
Leiken,  of the Immigration and National Security Programs at the Nixon Center,
a Washington-based foreign policy research group.

"We have to say that we are opposed to terrorism of any shape or form. Terrorism
overrides every other consideration now. The government's first concern is not
going to be pleasing the Irish American lobby; it's going to be national
security," he said.

In an attempt to bolster the credibility of their case, many of those fighting
deportation refer to the decision in 2000 by then Attorney General Janet Reno to
drop deportation proceedings against nine IRA members, several of whom had been
convicted of crimes including murder, hijacking and bombing offenses, in a move
the Clinton administration said would advance the peace process in Northern
Ireland. In a statement, however, the Department of Homeland Security said that
decision had no bearing on current cases.

"This order applied only to these specific individuals and did not create a
precedent for other individuals with similar convictions," according to the
statement released by the department's Immigration and Customs Enforcement
bureau.

Some noted with particular interest one deportation ruling in California earlier
this year,  believing it could  affect future cases. Immigration judge Rose
Peters ordered that Sean O'Cealleagh, jailed for his part in the 1988 murder of
two British army corporals in Northern Ireland, be allowed to remain permanently
in the United States after deciding that his conviction was "purely political."

In a move criticized by loyalist politicians in Northern Ireland, she also
described those released early under the Good Friday Agreement as former
political prisoners, a qualification not contained in the accord itself.

Others, however, consider that ruling unique, given the current political
climate in the United States. They acknowledge that although the argument that
one person's terrorist is another's freedom fighter may have worked in the past,
attitudes have hardened in the past three years.

"The fallout from the 9/11 attacks has had a real impact on cases similar to
mine," said McAllister. "The word 'terrorism' is bandied about a lot these days,
but we're different. Any crimes we were involved in were politically motivated."

McAllister's deportation battle has attracted interest from several members of
Congress, many of whom backed a private bill, introduced  by Rep. Steven R.
Rothman (D-N.J.), to allow McAllister and his family to stay in the United
States.

"I think this is simply a way of trying to balance the rounding up of Arab men
with others so they can say we're going after all terrorists and not
differentiating on a country-to-country basis," said Rep. Eliot L. Engel
(D-N.Y.)

"Malachy and the others gave up violence years ago and represent no threat to
the security of the United States. If they are putting these old battles behind
them in Ireland, why are we conjuring them up over here in the guise of fighting
terrorism?" Engel asked.

The Department of Homeland Security rejected claims that former Irish
paramilitaries are being singled out after  the Sept. 11 attacks. "The
statistics and basic facts do not bear that out whatsoever," said Dean Boyd,
spokesman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

"Our efforts are designed to strictly enforce the law. The law states that those
with prior convictions for certain types of crimes overseas are not allowed
entry to the U.S. That is a law that has been around pre-9/11," Boyd said.

In a joint letter released last November, representatives of a dozen Irish
American groups accused the Bush administration of reneging on a 2000 Republican
platform pledge that called for "a review of issues of deportation and
extradition arising prior to the [Good Friday] accord."

Pressed on the issue in a recent interview with Irish America magazine,
President Bush defended current legislation as "appropriate and important to the
United States' national security."

"My administration has taken great care to ensure that individuals are not
unfairly or arbitrarily classified as terrorists or otherwise unfairly denied
admission, and will continue to uphold high standards of accuracy and fairness,"
Bush said.

Those assurances do nothing for Heaven Ferry as she struggles to explain her
husband's absence to their 3-year-old daughter, Fiona. "It just doesn't make
sense," she said. "How is America safer without Ciaran Ferry? Are we really
safer now that he hasn't held his daughter in a year and a half?"

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              138 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 15, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Border Security Measures to Tighten Next Month

BYLINE: Sylvia Moreno, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 586 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex. Oct. 14


Tighter security measures designed to stop suspected terrorists, sexual
predators and other types of criminals at the nation's borders will begin next
month, federal officials announced Thursday.

The security program, known as US-VISIT, will require fingerprint scans and
photographs of travelers who enter the United States with a visa and then apply
to obtain a tourist permit. The program will begin Nov. 15 here, the nation's
second-busiest land port of entry, and in Douglas, Ariz., and Port Huron, Mich.
It will be expanded to the 50 busiest land ports of entry by the end of the year
and to all 165 by Dec. 31, 2005.

The Department of Homeland Security implemented the program Jan. 5 at 115
airports and 14 seaports.

Among the goals of US-VISIT, the U.S. Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator
Technology program, are "to enhance the security of our citizens and visitors;
facilitate legitimate travel and trade; [and] ensure the integrity of our
immigration system,"  program director Jim Williams said.

It requires visitors to submit to inkless finger scans and digital photographs
to allow Customs and Border Protection officers to determine whether  the person
applying for entry is the same one who was issued a visa by the State
Department.

In addition, the biometric and biographic data will be checked against watch
lists of suspected foreign terrorists and databases of sexual predators,
criminals wanted by the FBI and people  deported previously from the United
States.

Williams said that since the US-VISIT program began, 280 people have been
detained, out of about10 million scanned.

Implementing the program along the Mexican border, where U.S. communities such
as Laredo depend on the flow of commerce and foreign visitors to sustain their
economy, presents special challenges, federal officials acknowledged.

Texas, which shares a 1,200-mile border with Mexico, has 22 of the nation's 50
busiest land ports of entry. Laredo has annual crossings by 4.6 million
pedestrians, 1.4 million trucks, 6.8 million private vehicles and more than
40,000 buses, according to Customs and Border Protection statistics.

"We have to implement it . . . so it will not have an impact on the cross-border
traffic that is so vital," said Jayson P. Ahern, assistant commissioner of
Customs and Border Protection. "Mexico has and will continue to be a key partner
to these communities."

Most Mexican citizens who use border-crossing cards to travel into the United
States will not be subject, at least for now, to the US-VISIT program, officials
said. About 6.8 million Mexicans use such a card to travel within 25 miles of
the border in Texas, California and New Mexico, and within 75 miles of the
border in Arizona. The card is embedded with finger scans and a photograph and
is inspected at land crossings. It permits the holder to stay for as many as 30
days.

If the card holder wants to travel farther or stay longer,  he or she must
undergo US-VISIT processing.

Because most Canadians generally are not required to have visas to enter the
United States, they will not be subject to the US-VISIT process, officials said.

"We are cautiously optimistic [US-VISIT] won't impede trade or traffic or people
that are so used to crossing our borders: our shoppers and visitors and
families, our workers who choose to live on the Mexico side," said Laredo Mayor
Elizabeth G. Flores. "Our relationship with our sister city [Nuevo Laredo] and
with the rest of this country of Mexico is the lifeblood of Laredo."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              139 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 17, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Prince William Community Events Oct. 17-23

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T05

LENGTH: 1033 words


GENEALOGY SEMINAR, lecture on immigration and naturalization, sponsored by the
Prince William Public Library System. 1:30-4:30 p.m., Bull Run Regional Library,
8051 Ashton Ave., Manassas. Free; registration required. 703-792-4540.

ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS, 2-3 p.m., Conference Room 2/3, Potomac Hospital, 2300
Opitz Blvd., Woodbridge. 703-445-0777.

BLOOD DRIVE, sponsored by the American Red Cross, Prince William Chapter. 7:30
a.m.-1:30 p.m., Woodbridge Senior High School, 3001 Old Bridge Rd., Woodbridge.
703-368-4511.

VISION-IMPAIRED SUPPORT GROUP, 10 a.m.-noon, Park West Lions Club, 8620
Sunnygate Dr., Manassas. 703-368-1721.

TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL, 7-9 p.m., Ebenezer Baptist Church, 13202 Telegraph
Rd., Woodbridge. 703-680-3203.

STORY TIME, for ages 2-5. 7:15 p.m., Chinn Park Regional Library, 13065 Chinn
Park Dr., Woodbridge. Free. 703-792-4800.

WRITERS ROUNDTABLE, 7:30 p.m., Francis Cannon VFW Hall, 9304 Centreville Rd.,
Manassas. 703-494-4260.

HOME-BUYING SEMINAR, 7-8:30 p.m., Chinn Park Regional Library, 13065 Chinn Park
Dr., Woodbridge. Free; registration required. 703-792-6287.

QUILTING CLASS, basic instruction. 7 p.m., Chinn Park Regional Library, 13065
Chinn Park Dr., Woodbridge. Free; registration required. 703-792-4800.

10TH DISTRICT DEBATE, with Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) and challenger James Socas
(D). 6:30 p.m.; dinner, 7 p.m.; program, 8 p.m. Holiday Inn, 10800 Vandor Lane,
Manassas. Dinner, $20; program is free. Reservations required for dinner.
703-670-5915.

STORY HOUR, for ages 2-6. 10:30 a.m., Chinn Park Regional Library, 13065 Chinn
Park Dr., Woodbridge. Free. 703-792-4800.

EVENING STORY HOUR, for ages 2-5, with a caregiver. 7 p.m., Central Community
Library, 8601 Mathis Ave., Manassas. Free. 703-361-8211,

BULL RUN TROUBADOURS, 7:30 p.m., Trinity Episcopal Church, Battle and Church
streets, Manassas. 703-743-5867.

PRINCE WILLIAM CHESS CLUB, 7-9 p.m., Game Parlor, 14400 Smoketown Rd.,
Woodbridge. 703-670-5887.

PRINCE WILLIAM ART SOCIETY, 7:30 p.m., Canterbury Woods Community Center, 12104
Chaucer Lane, Lake Ridge. 703-590-3144.

ESTATE PLANNING AND INVESTMENT SEMINAR, for people 50 and older, sponsored by
the Lifelong Learning Institute. 10 a.m., Colgan Theater, Northern Virginia
Community College, 6901 Sudley Rd., Manassas. Free. 703-753-1917.

BREAST CANCER SUPPORT GROUP, for patients and family members, sponsored by
Potomac Hospital. 7 p.m., Conference Room 2/3, Potomac Hospital, 2300 Opitz
Blvd., Woodbridge. 703-221-2500.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED FEDERAL EMPLOYEES, Chapter 356. Lunch at 11:30
a.m.; meeting at 12:30 p.m. Old Country Buffet, 8121 Sudley Rd., Manassas.
540-368-0246.

BLOOD DRIVE, sponsored by the American Red Cross Prince William Chapter. 9
a.m.-2:30 p.m., Northern Virginia Community College, 6901 Sudley Rd., Manassas.
703-368-4511.

STORY TIME, for ages 2-6, with a caregiver, 10:30 and 11:15 a.m.; for ages 3-8,
with a caregiver, 4 p.m. Chinn Park Regional Library, 13065 Chinn Park Dr.,
Woodbridge. Free. 703-792-4800.

TAKE OFF POUNDS SENSIBLY, weight loss support, 9-11 a.m., Prince William Senior
Center, 13850 Church Hill Dr., Woodbridge. Free. 703-494-2692.

WRITERS GROUP, 7:30 p.m., Borders Books & Music, 2904 Prince William Pkwy.,
Woodbridge. 703-897-8100.

TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL, Lake Ridge Club No. 8913. 7:30 p.m., Tall Oaks
Community Center, 12399 Hedges Run Dr., Lake Ridge. 703-494-5530.

WIDOW AND WIDOWERS SUPPORT GROUP, for people 55 and younger, sponsored by
Potomac Hospital. 7:30-9 p.m., Potomac Hospital, 2300 Opitz Blvd., Woodbridge.
703-670-1722.

BEREAVEMENT SUPPORT GROUP, 7 p.m., Bethel Lutheran Church, 8712 Plantation Lane,
Manassas. 703-368-9800.

AMERICAN BUSINESS WOMEN'S ASSOCIATION, 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m., 2233 Tackett's Mill
Dr., Woodbridge. Members, $14; nonmembers, $19. 703-492-4144.

OLD TOWN BUSINESS ASSOCIATION, 8 a.m., Manassas Museum, 9101 Prince William St.,
Manassas. 703-257-7895.

MANASSAS-WARRENTON CAMERA CLUB, 7:30 p.m., Manassas City Hall Council Chambers,
first floor, 9027 Center St., Manassas. 540-439-0566.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED FEDERAL EMPLOYEES, Chapter 1270. Lunch at noon;
meeting at 12:45 p.m., Montclair Golf, Tennis and Swim Club, 16500 Edgewood Dr.,
Dumfries. 703-494-5439.

FAMILIES ANONYMOUS, for parents of children with substance abuse problems. 8:30
p.m., old Marsteller School building, Room 24, 8730 Sudley Rd., Manassas.
703-530-8973.

FARMERS MARKET, 7 a.m.-1 p.m., Church Street, next to the fire station in Old
Town Manassas. 703-361-6599.

PARENTING CLASSES IN SPANISH, sponsored by the Prince William Cooperative
Extension Service. 7-9 p.m. Fridays, through Dec. 3. Sudley North Government
Building, 7987 Ashton Ave., Manassas. 40; registration required. 703-792-6288.

USED BOOK SALE, sponsored by the Friends of the Chinn Park Regional Library. 10
a.m.-4:30 p.m. today and Saturday, noon-3 p.m. Sunday, Chinn Park Regional
Library, 13065 Chinn Park Dr., Woodbridge. Free. 703-792-4890.

ALCOHOL RECOVERY MEETING, Back Door Friends. Noon, River Woods Community Center,
16573 Nanticoke Rd., Woodbridge. 703-221-5513.

HYPERTUFA WORKSHOP, sponsored by the Prince William Cooperative Extension
Service. 10 a.m.-noon, Teaching Garden, St. Benedict Monastery, 9535 Linton Hall
Rd., Bristow. $25; registration requested. 703-792-7747.

SCIENCE FICTION BOOK CLUB, "The Amazing Dr. Darwin: The Adventures of Charles
Darwin's Grandfather," by Charles Sheffield. 2:30 p.m., Central Community
Library, 8601 Mathis Ave., Manassas. 703-361-8211.

BALLROOM DANCING DEMONSTRATION, 2 p.m., Bull Run Regional Library, 8051 Ashton
Ave., Manassas. Free; registration required. 703-792-4540.

FARMERS MARKET, 7 a.m.-2:30 p.m., Church Street, next to the fire station in Old
Town Manassas. 703-361-6599.

RECOVERY INC., for people experiencing anxiety, depression, fear and other
emotional problems. 10 a.m.-noon, Cokesbury United Methodist Church, 14804
Blackburn Rd., Woodbridge. 703-490-5423.

To Submit an Item

E-mail: pwextra@washpost.com

Fax: 703-392-1406

Mail: This Week, Extra, The Washington Post, 9420 Battle St., Manassas, Va.,
20110

Details: Items, which are published weekly on a space-available basis, are
accepted from nonprofit groups.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              140 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 18, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Driver Sought in Ariz. Crash That Killed 6

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX Oct. 17


Police on Sunday were trying to determine who was driving a stolen truck loaded
with illegal immigrants that smashed into other vehicles Saturday and rolled
over, killing six people and injuring 15, some critically.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials questioned a man they had believed
was the driver, but he turned out to be a passenger, said Arizona Department of
Public Safety Sgt.

Brian Preston.

Investigators said they think the pickup truck was traveling about 90 mph when
it lost control at an intersection near Fort Huachuca, an Army post next to
Sierra Vista in southeastern Arizona. Seventeen people were in the truck -- two
women, 14 men and a boy, Preston said.

Deputies had been chasing the truck, but broke off pursuit before the accident.

Five people died at the scene of the 11-car crash Saturday, and one victim died
later at a hospital. Of the 15 injured, one person was on life support and six
were in critical but stable condition, Preston said.

James Lee, 74, and Emilia Lee, 71, of Huachuca City, were killed when the pickup
hit their car and several others after swerving to avoid tire-damaging spikes
placed on the road by police. The other four people who died were in the pickup;
their names had not been released Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              141 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 20, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 549 words


NEW YORK -- Albanian pop singer Anita Bitri Prapaniku, 36, who came to the
United States in search of stardom, was found dead of apparent carbon monoxide
poisoning Tuesday along with her mother, Hazabije Bitri, 60, and daughter,
Sibora, 7.

Chief Fire Marshal Louis Garcia said carbon monoxide filled the home after a
plastic bag  was stuffed in a boiler flue during construction of a brick deck
behind the home and then was not removed. The deck was built over the flue, and
the bag was used to keep concrete from falling in.

A spokeswoman for the city Department of Buildings said the deck apparently was
built by family friends, not a licensed contractor.

*  GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. -- The government filed three terrorism-related counts
against a Turkish immigrant already being detained on immigration charges. The
new charges accuse Ibrahim Parlak of committing, inciting or supporting
terrorist activities, an official with Immigration and Customs Enforcement said.
The government has said Parlak, 42, once had ties to the former Kurdistan
Workers' Party, or PKK, a group now known as the People's Congress of Kurdistan,
or Kongra-Gel, and considered a terrorist organization by the United States.

*  SANTA FE, N.M. -- Two fired Los Alamos National Laboratory employees -- Peter
Bussolini, 66, and Scott Alexander, 42 -- implicated in a purchasing scandal at
the nuclear weapons lab pleaded guilty to mail fraud and conspiracy charges in
exchange for having 26 other charges dropped, authorities said.

*  SAN FRANCISCO -- Heavy rains in northern California knocked out power to at
least 144,000 customers and forced 200 residents to evacuate, many in areas
where wildfires burned hillside vegetation a week ago. The storm was
concentrated over Napa and Sonoma counties north of San Francisco, where winds
gusted to nearly 60 mph and some hilly and mountainous regions received more
than a half-inch of rain per hour.

*  RALEIGH -- North Carolina's State Bar scheduled an unusual public meeting
Wednesday to discuss a decision to give written reprimands to two former
prosecutors, David Hoke and Debra Graves, accused of withholding evidence that
could have spared Alan Gell nine years in prison for a murder he was acquitted
of this year after winning the right to a new trial. Critics of the reprimands
said the open meeting could lead to an independent investigation of the matter.

*  MINNEAPOLIS -- The Mayo Clinic will name a new cardiovascular treatment
center for the president of the United Arab Emirates, Sheik Zayed bin Sultan
Nahayan, who has given $25 million to the institution since he had neck surgery
there in 1996. The Mayo Clinic Zayed Cardiovascular Center in Rochester, Minn.,
will be dedicated next year.

*  CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. -- Strong storms  across the South dumped more than five
inches of rain in Tennessee, causing  floods and at least one death. Tornadoes
killed three people in Missouri on Monday; rain was blamed for a Tennessee
driver's death.

*  OAKLAND, Calif. -- Sausage maker Stuart Alexander, 43, who fatally shot three
government meat inspectors at his Santos Linguisa factory in 2000, was convicted
of three counts of first-degree murder and one count of attempted murder. A
fourth inspector escaped and testified against Alexander.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              142 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 21, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Aid Worker Signs Own Pink Slip;
Ethiopian to Continue Helping Immigrants

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T03

LENGTH: 835 words


Abdul Kamus, head of the Ethiopian Community Development Council in the
District, was struggling recently with a budget shortfall and realized he'd have
to cut a member of his staff.

So he made a dramatic decision.

"I terminated myself," he said.

Kamus, 47, has been one of the city's most prominent advocates for African
immigrants. In the nearly four years since he became head of the development
council, known as ECDC, he has helped resettle hundreds of refugees, assisted
immigrants who lost their jobs after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, and pushed for
a new language access act, which requires city agencies to hire bilingual
employees and translate documents.

Kamus said he decided to leave ECDC because he wanted to preserve the group's
core functions despite the budget cuts. He also felt he was ready for a new
challenge.

"I really want to do more advocacy than direct services," said Kamus, who
finished up last Friday.

The Washington area boasts the second-biggest concentration of African
immigrants in the country, after New York. In the District, one out of every
eight foreign-born residents is from Africa, with the largest group from
Ethiopia.

Kamus himself was a refugee from Ethiopia. After he finished a master's degree
in engineering, he decided to flee his homeland, which had come under the rule
of a Marxist regime. He arrived in New York in 1984.

"It was not really my dream to come to the USA. My dream was to go back home and
build factories," he said. But when he reached the United States, he said, "I
just felt the freedom." He never looked back.

After a series of short-term jobs, Kamus was offered a position at the
International Rescue Committee in New York, helping to resettle a growing number
of Ethiopian refugees.

"I found my calling. I enjoy helping people," said Kamus.

Kamus moved to the District in early 2001, hoping to provide his two children
the chance to grow up in an area full of parks and trees. ECDC, whose national
office is in Arlington, was opening a D.C. branch to help newly arrived refugees
and African immigrants, and it hired him to be program manager.

Since then, said Kamus, "We have assisted over 1,000 people, getting them jobs,
guiding them to be self-sufficient, and sending them to have skills."

There have been difficult moments. Worst was the Sept. 11 attacks and their
aftermath, a period in which thousands of local immigrants lost their jobs due
to a near-collapse of the travel industry. Many African immigrants were fired
from their positions as airport security screeners, as new rules restricted the
jobs to U.S. citizens.

ECDC was one of numerous local groups that rushed to line up temporary
assistance for the unemployed and help them find new jobs.

But another difficulty loomed: The flow of refugees ground to a halt as the U.S.
government scrambled to tighten security checks on arriving foreigners.

"The hardest part was, refugees who were waiting to come to the USA were unable
to join their relatives and families," recalled Kamus.

The government has slowly increased the number of refugees allowed in, but the
total in fiscal year 2004 -- nearly 53,000 -- is still below the level before
the attacks.

Despite the problems, Kamus said, he is leaving his job with many happy
memories. He recalls helping an Ethiopian refugee get into a program at Strayer
University that enabled him to quickly convert his accounting skills into a CPA
degree. Then there was the Christmas party last year at  which Mayor Anthony A.
Williams (D) helped distribute 200 toys to refugee children.

Perhaps most important, Kamus helped promote the language access act that the
mayor signed into law last spring. It requires city agencies to make plans to
hire bilingual employees and translate vital documents into five languages,
including Amharic, the Ethiopian tongue.

Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), who sponsored the legislation, said he worked closely
with Kamus on it.

"He has really brought the African constituent interests into the limelight,"
said Graham. "His talent and intelligence have really made a difference."

Tsehaye Teferra, the national director of ECDC, said Kamus had succeeded in
building coalitions with other immigrant groups and making the newcomers' needs
known to the general public.

"His greatest asset has been his leadership in bringing different groups
together," Teferra said.

Teferra said ECDC will do some restructuring at its office in the District,  on
15th Street NW, to cover Kamus's previous responsibilities.

As for Kamus, he is involved in several projects involving African immigrants
and said he hopes  the D.C. government will establish a commission to represent
their interests. He also thinks African immigrants should form a national
organization such as those that represent Latinos or Southeast Asians.

"There is a need to do advocacy, to educate employers, educate the community,
educate the social service providers about refugee issues and African immigrants
in the Washington area," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              143 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 22, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Voters Surge

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan and Juliet Eilperin

SECTION: A Section; A07 , POLITICS Mary Beth Sheridan and Juliet Eilperin

LENGTH: 607 words


The president has the "Viva Bush" campaign and immigrant  stars  such as
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. His challenger has "Unidos con Kerry"
bumper stickers and an African-born wife who waxes about the American dream.

Both candidates are energetically reaching out to immigrants in the run-up to
the Nov. 2 presidential election, and a new report shows why. Foreign-born
citizens accounted for 54.9 percent of the net increase in people registered to
vote between 1996 and 2000, according to the Immigration Policy Center report.

"We had a surge in naturalization in the 1990s . . . and a surge in political
participation," said Rob Paral, one of the authors of the report, which is based
on data from census surveys.

The report, released this week, found that there were 10.7 million adult
immigrant citizens in the United States in 2000, of whom 6.2 million registered
to vote. About 5.4 million of them cast ballots.

Many immigrants, of course,  cannot vote because they are not citizens. And only
about 58 percent of foreign-born citizens were registered to vote in 2000,
compared  with 70 percent of native-born, the study found. But if they are
registered, immigrants have higher rates of turnout on Election Day, the report
said.

Latino, Asian American and other ethnic groups have launched major registration
drives to get hundreds of thousands more people on election roles. The votes of
naturalized citizens could be especially important in battleground states such
as Arizona, Florida, New Mexico and Washington.

The report did not predict how many immigrant voters would cast ballots in 2004.
But according to the latest official statistics, more than 2 million people have
become citizens since the start of fiscal year 2001.

In what it is calling "the largest single-state media campaign in the history of
environmental activism,"  the League of Conservation Voters announced this week
that it will be blitzing Florida with $3 million worth of ads. The commercials
will focus on the Bush administration's support for drilling in the Gulf of
Mexico and its ties to "big oil" and to corporations such as Halliburton.

The league's president, Deb Callahan, said she is confident the ads will
resonate with Floridians. "Drilling is a mother's-milk issue in Florida,"
Callahan said. "It's something people understand."

In 2001, the Bush administration considered leasing several million acres in
Alabama's territorial waters, part of which stretched within 30 miles of
Pensacola, Fla. The president ultimately decided to lease only in areas 100
miles beyond Alabama and Florida's coasts: Bush's top environmental adviser,
James L. Connaughton, said the president "has been steadfast and consistent in
his opposition to drilling off Florida's coast."

The league is not the only environmental group targeting the Sunshine State:
Environment2004 is launching ads in Tampa and Milwaukee aimed at women that
highlight mercury contamination among fish and how corporate taxes financing the
Superfund trust fund have expired.

Aimee Christensen, the group's executive director, said the ads will "reinforce
what we're going to communicate directly to our voters."

"We're using as many avenues as possible to reach our voters," including
multiple phone and mail contacts with undecided and swing voters, she said.

The Florida ad buy, which includes cable and broadcast ads aimed at women on
shows such as "Trading Spaces," "Oprah" and "The View," will cost $160,000.
Environment2004 is also spending $50,000 in Milwaukee and is planning additional
ad buys in two recreational fishing markets, Green Bay, Wis., and Fort Myers,
Fla.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              144 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 27, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Some Laborers Arrested In Va. Face Deportation;
Frightening of Immigrant Community Decried

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 915 words


The arrest of 24 Latino day laborers looking for work outside a 7-Eleven in
Woodbridge was intended as a crackdown on loitering, Prince William County
police say. The charge, they noted, carries only a $100 fine.

But the penalty for many ended up being more severe: Eleven of the workers could
not prove their identity and were transferred to federal custody. They have been
put in an adult detention center in Manassas and face deportation.

Immigration advocates and officials from other jurisdictions say the mass
roundup last week is fracturing the fragile trust between local law enforcement
agencies and immigrants. The incident may discourage immigrants from reporting
crimes or working with detectives, they said, at a time when millions of dollars
are being spent to combat a growing gang problem.

"This is exactly what immigrants were afraid of -- a bunch of Latinos hanging
out and the police come by and pick them up and refer them" to federal
immigration agents, said Tim Freilich, managing attorney of the Virginia Justice
Center. "From a policy standpoint, the arrests don't make any sense. It's not
going to solve the issue of day laborers in Woodbridge. . . . It's just going to
frighten the immigrant community."

The arrests came about three months after a new Virginia law gave state and
local police the authority to arrest illegal immigrants without a warrant. The
law, which targeted possible terrorists, was intended to be limited in scope and
could be applied only if the immigrant had been convicted of a felony, had been
ordered out of the country and was suspected of committing another crime.

But the law incited a much broader reaction of panic and mistrust of local
police departments. For example, when the Fairfax County police held a
Spanish-language child safety seat demonstration in Herndon, no one from the
immigrant community showed up, fearing they would be arrested in an immigration
sweep.

"The arrests contradict the public promise made by local police chiefs in
Virginia, who made a commitment not to apply that law . . . indiscriminately
against immigrants who were innocent of criminal charges," said Ricardo Juarez,
coordinator of a local group called Mexicans Without Borders, which organized a
small protest in Woodbridge yesterday.

Police Capt. Tim Rudy defended the operation, saying the Prince William arrests
had nothing to do with the new law. He said he has been fielding complaints
every day from customers and businesses about the informal day worker gathering
site at Route 1 and Longview Drive.

Rudy said his officers had allowed the laborers to solicit jobs there before
most businesses open at 9 a.m., but they repeatedly told them to get off the
property after then. The warnings went unheeded for months, so Rudy ordered the
arrests Oct. 19.

"Women are being harassed, there's urinating in public behind the 7-Eleven,
there's trash all over the place," he said. "This was a community maintenance
issue. It had nothing to do with immigration."

Rudy said police used fingerprints to formally identify 11 of the day workers
arrested. Files showed they had committed immigration violations.

"That's why we called" Immigration and Customs Enforcement, he said. "That's
just good police work."

Officials from other jurisdictions said their police departments rarely refer
illegal immigrants to federal custody unless they have committed a felony.

Linking police actions with immigration enforcement is very touchy for local
departments and has "a very likely outcome of an entire segment of the
population shutting down because they are afraid of you," said Arlington County
police spokesman Matt Martin. "And what you create is a group of people who's
ripe for additional victimization."

Day laborer sites have sparked debate in several jurisdictions undergoing rapid
demographic change. The issue has sharply divided communities and often involves
grievances about crowded housing and large-scale illegal immigration.

In Herndon, residents sometimes pressure Mayor Michael O'Reilly to rid the town
of its growing number of day laborers.

O'Reilly said, however: "The wholesale rounding up of groups of people I don't
believe has any long-term benefit for anyone in the community. I would much
rather see everyone working together in a constructive fashion, instead of
essentially declaring war on a certain practice."

Prince William Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge) applauded the county
police department's efforts, saying police are under "great pressure" to solve
the issue. "The banks, the stores don't want them to hang around; the school and
the parents don't want their kids to see people urinating in public, which does
happen," she said.

But Shawn Fisher, PTA president of Lynn Middle School, which is adjacent to the
7-Eleven, questioned the loitering arrests.

"To my knowledge, there has been no incident involving a student and any of the
day workers," she said. "I am disheartened that the police department felt the
need to involve" federal immigration. The laborers are just seeking employment
and "ultimately have tried to obtain a better life for themselves and their
families," she said.

David Martinez, 34, who was one of the 24 arrested day workers, was released by
immigration officials after he agreed to return to his native Honduras. He said
through an interpreter: "I want to say to the community to help my immigrant
brothers. Tell the authorities to have a conscience, because we are all human."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              145 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 31, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Cutbacks Threaten Work Of Homeland Security Unit

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A06

LENGTH: 1240 words


A key unit of the Department of Homeland Security has slipped into a state of
financial turmoil that could endanger its ability to investigate terrorists, pay
informants and perform wiretaps, some department employees and officials say.

All hiring and transfers at the department's Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) division have been banned for two months, as have almost all training,
purchases of supplies and equipment, and maintenance of vehicles. Top department
officials say they are committed to protecting ICE's ability to perform
investigations, but agents in the field say ICE's budget shortfall of perhaps
$500 million may soon threaten its national security work.

The cause of the financial hole at ICE is a set of complex accounting maneuvers
used when the Department of Homeland Security  was  established in 2003. Those
procedures have led to financial disputes among several Homeland Security
agencies, officials said.

ICE has a diverse mission that includes investigating immigration violations,
international arms dealers, money launderers and child pornographers. It is
participating in the  government effort to disrupt possible terrorist threats
during the election period. It is an amalgam of parts of the old Customs
Service, the former Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), and other
agencies.

Top Homeland Security officials are hiring outside accountants to help referee
the disputes, which involve hundreds of millions of dollars, among the three
Homeland Security agencies that include parts of the old INS: the
15,000-employee ICE; Customs and Border Protection (CBP), whose 41,000 employees
guard U.S. borders, airports and seaports; and the 10,000-strong Citizenship and
Immigration Services (CIS), which provides services for immigrants.

"These are very frontline agencies, and getting them healthy as fast as possible
is what we're about," said Andrew Maner, Homeland Security's chief financial
officer, who has overseen 10 months of intense negotiations among the three
agencies. "We need to have very healthy agencies, given what they do."

One result of ICE's budget crisis is that it has been forced to release on bond
25,000 illegal immigrants over the past year because it lacked space to
incarcerate them, said Rep. Jim Turner (Texas), the ranking Democrat on the
House Select Committee on Homeland Security. "That's a dangerous situation that
needs management attention," he said.

ICE officials disputed the number, adding that they did not release any
convicted criminals or people suspected of posing terrorist threats.

ICE officials said they do not plan layoffs or furloughs, and that they are
doing everything they can to avoid compromising investigations. In a Sept. 3
e-mail to employees announcing the need for deeper budget cuts, ICE chief
Michael Garcia said they were necessary "to ensure we operate within our budget
while continuing to direct resources towards our national security missions,
which are our highest priority."

"The message has been sent to the field to make sure they continue to fulfill
that mission,"  ICE spokesman Russ Knocke said.

ICE agents around the country confirmed that their superiors are trying to avoid
limiting investigations. But it has become clear that ICE will overspend its
current budget of $3.8 billion, even with the cutbacks it is making, ICE
officials and agents said. It is illegal for an agency to overspend its
congressionally approved budget.

The budget picture varies office by office, employees said. Most larger offices
have been able to keep cars running and agents active because they have more
budget flexibility, but some smaller field offices are taking cars off the
streets, restricting photocopying  and cutting agents' budgets, officials said.

"My bosses are saying, 'Don't ground the fleet, because that affects
operations,' and so we haven't," said an official at a large ICE office. "But
it's not possible to meet our budgets" without cutbacks that would sideline
agents' vehicles, he added. "We're on track to overspend."

The origins of ICE's budget problems  hark back to the way the former agencies
were broken up and reassembled into three new entities inside Homeland Security.
It has led to bitter clashes among the three new agencies -- ICE, CBP and CIS --
over how much each owes the others for providing an array of expensive services
to one another.

The disputes involve hundreds of types of cash outlays, including the computer
work that ICE provides the other two agencies; and ICE's payment of rent and
parking costs to the other agencies in some field offices. All three claim they
should be repaid for various costs they incur for the other agencies, but ICE is
by far the overall loser, officials said.

In merging the various parts of the old Customs and INS, Congress and the White
House decided that the new Homeland Security entities should not create their
own units to handle information technology, human resources, payroll, legal and
other services, officials said. To economize, the three agencies were each
assigned to handle some of the tasks for the others, and instructed to settle
the costs later. But the task has turned out to be much more difficult and
disruptive than anyone predicted, officials said.

ICE has been plagued by employee discontent since it was formed, along with the
Department of Homeland Security, in March 2003. Many former Customs agents, who
prided themselves on high performance and esprit de corps, resented being put
together with agents from the old INS and being forced to pursue sometimes
humdrum cases involving alien smuggling rings and fraudulent marriages.

Many former Customs agents also express bitterness about using ICE's
computerized budget- and case-tracking systems, which used to belong to the INS
and had been criticized by outside auditors for years. A number of ICE employees
and members of Congress say ICE's internal financial systems are one cause of
ICE's current budget crisis -- an assertion ICE officials deny.

The Homeland Security appropriations bill approved earlier this month notes that
lawmakers are "extremely concerned about the financial health of ICE, and
whether it has the systems and management in place to support the functioning of
the agency.

"The adverse impact of hiring and spending freezes and uncertainty on the
operations of this critical agency and the morale of its personnel cannot be
ignored," according to language in the law.

In tense bargaining over last fiscal year's budget, Homeland Security officials
persuaded the three agencies to repay each other for various services. ICE was
given $500 million, with CBP paying $215 million of that, and CIS providing $270
million. ICE also saved $120 million through cutbacks in the past fiscal year,
which ended on Sept. 30.

Now the three agencies are locked in negotiations for the current fiscal year,
with each saying it is owed money, and ICE warning it might not be able to do
its job under its current budget. The accountants are looking at such seemingly
trivial cost-allocation questions as how much each agency pays for photocopiers
in each field office and the share of copying by employees of each of the three
agencies.

"This is incredibly complex," said a Homeland Security official briefed on the
controversy. "But ICE's new budget [from Congress] has a huge projected hole in
it. . . . This situation has to be resolved immediately."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              146 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 1, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Referendum Roulette

SECTION: Editorial; A20

LENGTH: 519 words


IN ADDITION to state and national politicians, Americans in 34 states will also
be voting tomorrow on 163 ballot initiatives and referendums, ranging from gay
marriage to tobacco taxation to bear baiting. Contrary to popular belief, this
is not an unusually large crop of ballot initiatives: After rising in the 1990s,
the numbers have begun to flatten out. But while the quantity of ballot
initiatives is staying level, their political significance may be growing, and
not necessarily in welcome ways.

Traditionally the issues that figured on ballot initiatives were ones that
politicians were unwilling or unable to deal with. Arizona's Proposition 200, a
measure that aims to prevent undocumented immigrants from voting or receiving
public services, is on the ballot because voters are frustrated by the lack of
immigration reform in a state that has recently become a mecca for illegal
immigration. Alaska's "anti-nepotism" proposal, which would require elections to
fill empty Senate seats (and would have prevented Gov. Frank H. Murkowski (R)
from appointing his daughter, Lisa Murkowski (R) to fill his old seat) is
another that deals with an issue that politicians have failed to resolve.

But this year's crop also features a number of referenda that have been
explicitly pushed onto the ballot not because the political class has ignored
them but because a part of the political class wants to lure particular kinds of
voters to the polls. Most notably, Republicans have sponsored measures banning
same-sex marriage in 11 states, among them Ohio, precisely to bring out the
evangelical voters whom the administration believes stayed home last time.
Similarly, proposals to raise the minimum wage are on the ballot in Florida and
Nevada, where advocates hope they will draw Democratic voters, as a similar
measure did in Washington in 1998. California's stem cell research initiative
wasn't intended to have quite the same effect but has deliberately drawn
national attention to an issue that Democrats believe helps them.

Without question, this is a negative trend, one that will further polarize
opinion on difficult issues by making them footballs of election-year politics.
Equally unwelcome is the trend toward giving voters choices on technical
budgetary and taxation issues that ought to be the focus of more sustained
legislative and political deliberation: the implementation of self-financing
bonds in North Carolina, the abolition of a sales tax on food in South Dakota,
limits on property taxes in Maine and Washington, and a whole raft of gambling
issues in California, Florida, Michigan, Nebraska, Oklahoma and elsewhere.
Deciding on tax and spending issues outside of a larger context is a recipe for
disaster: It negates the weighing-and-balancing process that state legislatures
were designed to carry out.

The best argument for ballot initiatives is that they can occasionally move
forward an issue that cannot be dealt with by ordinary political means.
Unfortunately, too many of this year's ballot initiatives seem specifically
designed to gridlock the political process even further.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              147 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 4, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

From Native Peers, Help With a Foreign Tongue;
Young Immigrants Receive 1-on-1 Aid

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Montgomery Extra; T16

LENGTH: 951 words


Their heads bent over the magazine, teenagers Yi Sun and Aileen Leung took turns
reading aloud an article on fashion designers.

As they giggled over the photos of the models, Aileen  identified a sash in
English to Yi, who  emigrated from China  last year.

Then Yi took her turn. "Here's a word," she said to Aileen, a Chinese American
born in the United States, "Shi shang. Fashion."

For two hours on Saturday mornings, about 250 recently arrived Chinese
immigrants and American-born Chinese students gather in the cafeteria of Robert
Frost Middle School in Rockville for a one-on-one tutoring session.

The program, sponsored by a Chinese American parents group, is the largest in
the county  in which students  teach other students English -- although in some
ways the immigrants are doing as much teaching as they are learning.

Outside of these Saturday gatherings, the two groups of children, who share the
same ethnic background but are separated by language and culture, don't
regularly socialize  at school.

Aileen, a 17-year-old senior at  Wootton High School in Rockville, said teaching
Chinese immigrants helps her connect with her heritage. She can speak
conversational Mandarin, but in their tutoring sessions she has learned science
and slang words from Yi.

"Even though I was born in America, part of me is still Chinese," Aileen said.

Yi, a 15-year-old sophomore at Walter Johnson High School in Bethesda, said
having a fellow teenager as a tutor is very helpful in practicing English.

"They act like Americans, but they know some Chinese terms," Yi said. "It's
easier to understand them."

Montgomery County's  Chinese are  a diverse group.  Many families  have lived in
the region for generations and have children who  speak little Chinese. Others
have  emigrated from mainland China, Taiwan or Hong Kong in recent years,
seeking better jobs and educational opportunities. Some are researchers for the
National Institutes of Health in Bethesda; others work in restaurants.

More than 28,000 people of Chinese descent in the county were counted in the
2000 Census, an increase of 63 percent since 1990. They are the largest subgroup
of Asians, who make up about 11 percent of the county's population.

In the school system, Chinese speakers are the second-largest group, behind
Spanish speakers,  in the English for Speakers of Other Languages program. More
than 650 ESOL students speak either Cantonese or Mandarin dialects of Chinese.

The Chinese American Parents and Students Association started the tutoring
program  14 years ago with  30 participants, but it now fills the Robert Frost
cafeteria with students from kindergarten to high school.

Brigitta Dai, a retired special education teacher's aide, said she helped start
the program because of her memories of her eldest daughter's difficulties
learning English when the family  emigrated from Taiwan 30 years ago. She said
that after one year in the sixth grade, her daughter still had trouble
distinguishing the letters "n" and "u."

Dai and her husband spent countless hours after work rifling through a
Chinese-English dictionary to go through new words with their daughter, even
though their own English was hesitant. Their daughter went on to graduate from
the University of Maryland and works as an accountant.

"I know for immigrant families, it's very hard for their children," Dai said. "I
want our students and our children to be better than us in America. They have
very rich potential."

The all-volunteer initiative, which operates through the school year, doesn't
receive county funding but does receive  support from the school system's ESOL
staff. Donations from businesses and individuals and a membership fee of $30 per
family pay the program's expenses, which are about $10,000 a year, the bulk of
which is for renting the space.

Many of the tutors initially volunteered to fulfill their community service
hours for graduation, but the majority have stayed on after completing the
requirement.

Karen Shih, 16, said she became more appreciative of the struggles her parents
and other immigrants went through. Last summer, she asked her parents to send
her to Taiwan so she could improve her Chinese and be a better tutor.

"I just honestly can't imagine having to move all across the world," said Karen,
a sophomore at Blake High School in Silver Spring. "English is a strange
language to learn. There's a rule, and then they break the rules. There are just
so many things you take for granted."

Karen C. Woodson, director of the school system's ESOL office, said she
considers the tutoring program a "best practice" because research has shown that
peer-to-peer tutoring outside of school helps children learn English more
quickly.

"It has a wonderful community involvement," she said.

The tutoring service has expanded to include the parents of the students. About
40 adults have signed up for English classes, and two of their teachers are
Chinese American college students.

On a recent Saturday, the cafeteria is filled with the chatter of Chinese and
the halting starts of English. Hello Kitty and SpongeBob backpacks hang on
chairs.

Some students are working on biology homework. Others are reading picture books.
And a few girls are talking about the strange American custom of the homecoming
dance.

"It sounds awesome," said Alice Chang, 15, a sophomore at  Wootton High School,
who immigrated here last year. "We never had it in Taiwan."

Her friend Tiffany Yang, who was her first tutor, shakes her head at the changes
in Alice.

Last year, "I tried to talk to her in English, but she didn't want to at first,"
said Tiffany, a senior at Churchill High School in Potomac. "She only talks in
English this year."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              148 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Justices Rule in Immigrant's Favor;
Drunken Driving Not a Reason for Deportation, Court Says

BYLINE: Charles Lane, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 612 words


The Supreme Court ruled yesterday that a noncitizen convicted of injuring two
people while driving drunk cannot be deported as a violent criminal, in a
unanimous decision that resolved a long-standing legal debate in favor of
immigrants' rights.

Issuing his first written opinion since the court announced Oct. 25 that he has
thyroid cancer, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote that drunken driving,
even when it results in serious harm to others, does not entail the kind of
specific criminal intent that Congress meant to punish when it passed a law in
1996 requiring the removal of all immigrants who commit "crimes of violence."

"Interpreting [the law] to encompass accidental or negligent conduct would blur
the distinction between the 'violent' crimes Congress sought to distinguish for
heightened punishment and other crimes," Rehnquist wrote.

The court ruled in favor of Josue Leocal, 47, a Haitian immigrant who came to
the United States in 1980 and became a legal resident in 1987 but was ordered
deported in October 2001 after pleading guilty in Florida to two counts of
causing serious bodily injury while driving under the influence of alcohol. In
November 2002, after serving his sentence for the crimes, Leocal was deported to
Haiti.

Last year, the Atlanta-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit upheld
his deportation; yesterday's Supreme Court ruling overturns that opinion and
opens the door for the readmission of Leocal, whose wife and two children are
U.S. citizens.

It is a defeat for the Bush administration, which had argued that drunken
driving could be considered a crime of violence because even the unintentional
use of force, as in the wild maneuvers of an intoxicated driver, could be
construed as violence.

"Today's unanimous decision repudiates the administration's improper
interpretation of the law and underscores the crucial role of the courts in
reviewing government deportation orders," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the
American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants Rights Project. "It is now incumbent
on the government to allow immigrants who have been wrongly deported to return."

Immigrants rights groups estimate that hundreds of noncitizens may have been
deported for drunken-driving offenses since 1996, when the Clinton
administration first made the argument that such felonies should be considered
deportable crimes.

In 1998, during Operation Last Call in Texas, immigration agents rounded up
hundreds of noncitizens with drunken-driving convictions, including some cases
that were many years old.

The Bush administration adopted the Clinton interpretation of the law, even as
several lower courts rejected it, leaving the law in an unsettled state until
yesterday.

Rehnquist did not appear at the bench to read the 101/2-page opinion. It was
announced in his absence by John Paul Stevens, the senior associate justice.

It was the fifth straight oral argument session that Rehnquist has missed since
not appearing in court Nov. 1, the date on which he had initially hoped to
return after undergoing cancer-related throat surgery Oct. 23.

Leocal v. Ashcroft, No. 03-583, was argued before the court Oct. 12, with
Rehnquist presiding.

That week, Rehnquist had an MRI test on his throat -- and he has apparently been
under the care of physicians almost continuously since. In a Nov. 1 statement,
he said he is undergoing radiation and chemotherapy treatments.

The court has not confirmed the precise nature of Rehnquist's illness. Outside
experts have said that, based on the course of his treatment so far, it is
likely that he has a very aggressive and often fatal disease called anaplastic
thyroid cancer.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              149 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 17, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Panel Stymied on Immigrant Licenses;
Task Force No Closer To Clarifying Rules

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 615 words


Some illegal immigrants would be able to obtain a Maryland driver's license
under rules proposed by a state task force, but the panel has stopped short of
recommending sweeping changes that would broaden access to driving privileges,
members said.

The deeply divided task force resisted the strict approach adopted by Virginia
and some other states, where immigrants cannot receive a license without proof
that they are lawfully in the country. And the panel, in a report it will
present by Dec. 1, recommends that certified school records be considered
sufficient primary proof of identity for applicants 18 and younger --
essentially allowing children who grew up in Maryland to receive driver's
licenses regardless of their immigration status.

But they rejected adding a variety of other foreign documents to verify
identity, leaving Maryland no closer to clarifying its current, ambiguous system
or resolving a question that has provoked debate across the nation.

"This is not an easy issue. . . . There are reasonable arguments on both sides
of this," said Geoffrey S. Tobias, task force chairman.

Several panel members who favored expanding immigrants' access to licenses are
preparing a minority report with alternative recommendations for the General
Assembly to review when it convenes in January.

"We are very dissatisfied with the outcome of this effort -- it's been a really
flawed process," said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), a member of the
task force. She called the latest draft of the majority's report "misleading,
incomplete and inaccurate."

The task force sprang from legislation proposed in 2003 that would have
established a detailed list of foreign documents as valid identification.
Lawmakers ultimately agreed to study the matter.

Maryland has no law barring illegal immigrants from getting a driver's license.
Rather, state regulations allow foreign-born applicants to prove their identity
with two primary documents or various other forms of identification that could
be available to illegal immigrants.

However, in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Motor Vehicle
Administration changed its practices and began requiring documents that only
someone in the country legally would possess, such as a passport with a valid
visa stamp. The result was to make it all but impossible for illegal immigrants
to obtain a Maryland driver's license.

Last winter, after receiving complaints that its new policy violated state
regulations, the MVA introduced an "exceptions process" under which a
foreign-born applicant could present other documents for review by a senior
document examiner.

Immigrant advocates say that the procedure is poorly publicized. They also
contend that the agency's practices still violate state regulations -- which,
for instance, do not specify that foreign passports must be accompanied by
immigration stamps or documents to be considered valid.

These same advocates argue that many illegal immigrants are driving, often
without a valid license or insurance to cover accidents. They say the roadways
would be far safer if these immigrants submit to driving tests and buy
insurance.

But others argue that driver's licenses have become a de facto national identity
card, allowing the bearer to rent vehicles, board planes and buy weapons and
explosives. Hence, tough restrictions are needed to ensure that terrorists do
not obtain them, opponents say.

The 13-member task force studying the issue consisted of five members appointed
by Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R), with the rest drawn from the state Senate,
the House of Delegates, the MVA, the Maryland State Police and the Governor's
Office of Homeland Security.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              150 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 17, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Task Force Divided on Licenses for Immigrants;
Md. Panel No Closer To Clarifying Procedures

BYLINE: Nurith C. Aizenman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 615 words


Some illegal immigrants would be able to obtain a Maryland driver's license
under rules proposed by a state task force, but the panel has stopped short of
recommending sweeping changes that would broaden access to driving privileges,
members said.

The deeply divided task force resisted the strict approach adopted by Virginia
and some other states, where immigrants cannot receive a license without proof
that they are lawfully in the country. And the panel, in a report it will
present by Dec. 1, recommends that certified school records be considered
sufficient primary proof of identity for applicants 18 and younger --
essentially allowing children who grew up in Maryland to receive driver's
licenses regardless of their immigration status.

But they rejected adding a variety of other foreign documents to verify
identity, leaving Maryland no closer to clarifying its current, ambiguous system
or resolving a question that has provoked debate across the nation.

"This is not an easy issue. . . . There are reasonable arguments on both sides
of this," said Geoffrey S. Tobias, task force chairman.

Several panel members who favored expanding immigrants' access to licenses are
preparing a minority report with alternative recommendations for the General
Assembly to review when it convenes in January.

"We are very dissatisfied with the outcome of this effort -- it's been a really
flawed process," said Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), a member of the
task force. She called the latest draft of the majority's report "misleading,
incomplete and inaccurate."

The task force sprang from legislation proposed in 2003 that would have
established a detailed list of foreign documents as valid identification.
Lawmakers ultimately agreed to study the matter.

Maryland has no law barring illegal immigrants from getting a driver's license.
Rather, state regulations allow foreign-born applicants to prove their identity
with two primary documents or various other forms of identification that could
be available to illegal immigrants.

However, in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Motor Vehicle
Administration changed its practices and began requiring documents that only
someone in the country legally would possess, such as a passport with a valid
visa stamp. The result was to make it all but impossible for illegal immigrants
to obtain a Maryland driver's license.

Last winter, after receiving complaints that its new policy violated state
regulations, the MVA introduced an "exceptions process" under which a
foreign-born applicant could present other documents for review by a senior
document examiner.

Immigrant advocates say that the procedure is poorly publicized. They also
contend that the agency's practices still violate state regulations -- which,
for instance, do not specify that foreign passports must be accompanied by
immigration stamps or documents to be considered valid.

These same advocates argue that many illegal immigrants are driving, often
without a valid license or insurance to cover accidents. They say the roadways
would be far safer if these immigrants submit to driving tests and buy
insurance.

But others argue that driver's licenses have become a de facto national identity
card, allowing the bearer to rent vehicles, board planes and buy weapons and
explosives. Hence, tough restrictions are needed to ensure that terrorists do
not obtain them, opponents say.

The 13-member task force studying the issue consisted of five members appointed
by Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R), with the rest drawn from the state Senate,
the House of Delegates, the MVA, the Maryland State Police and the Governor's
Office of Homeland Security.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              151 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 18, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Woman Charged With Wiring Money Illegally

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 376 words


A woman with a Guinean diplomatic passport was arrested on charges of running an
illegal money-sending business in the District that shipped at least $5 million
abroad in recent years, federal agents said yesterday.

The raid on Guinex International Inc., in the 6800 block of Eastern Avenue NW,
was the latest in a series of arrests nationwide of unlicensed money senders
since the Patriot Act took effect in October 2001, tightening regulations on the
financial industry.

"This case clearly demonstrates the threat posed by unlicensed money transmittal
businesses," said Allan J. Doody, special agent in charge of U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement  in the Washington area.

"Any criminal or terrorist can come to these underground businesses and have
their millions wired anywhere in the world in a matter of seconds with no
questions asked."

He said, however, that Guinex appeared to have no terrorist ties.

Attorneys for the owner, Aissatou Pita Barry, said she had been trying to get a
license but that authorities lost her application. "Everything has been done in
good faith," said C.T. Wilson, one of her attorneys. "This is not the criminal
Taliban."

Barry, a native of Guinea who lives in Silver Spring, had a diplomatic passport
that authorized her to work at the Embassy of Guinea, but she did not appear to
be employed there, a statement from the immigration agency said.

No one answered the phone yesterday at the embassy.

Barry's first brush with customs agents came in 1999 at Dulles International
Airport, when she was found carrying $50,000 in undeclared funds, according to
the  immigration statement.

She incorporated Guinex in the District as a business that dealt in nondurable
goods, but the company sent funds to the United Arab Emirates, India and other
countries, the statement said.

Barry sought a money-transmitting license in June 2003, but her application was
apparently lost, according to an affidavit from an  Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agent.

Barry appeared Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Washington and was ordered
detained on $75,000 bond. She did not enter a plea, her attorneys said.
Authorities said they also seized about $100,000 from company bank accounts and
$19,700 in cash and other assets.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              152 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 19, 2004 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Arrest of Day Laborers Prompts Outcry;
Group to Protest Charges Against Latinos From Pr. William Worker Site

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 700 words


A second wave of arrests this week of Latino immigrants looking for jobs outside
a Woodbridge 7-Eleven is drawing attention to the treatment of immigrants in
Prince William County and pressuring officials to find an alternative  day
laborer site.

A town hall meeting is scheduled at 10 a.m. tomorrow at the Ferlazzo Building in
Woodbridge and will include Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), and several state
and county officials.

After the meeting, a group of day workers will meet at 1 p.m. to protest the
arrests. Last month, 24 laborers were charged with loitering. On Monday, three
more were charged.

Day laborer sites have caused debate in several jurisdictions undergoing rapid
demographic change, such as Prince William, where Latinos have grown from 9
percent of the population to 16 percent in the past four years, according to
county officials.

Prince William's practice of arresting Hispanic workers who congregate in hopes
of getting day jobs has been criticized as counterproductive by immigration
advocates and officials from other jurisdictions. At a time when ethnic gang
violence is becoming a growing law enforcement problem, police should be trying
to build ties with the Latino community, not sowing mistrust, these critics
said.

Several county officials and residents defended the arrests, saying that the day
worker site has become a disruption and that some laborers leave trash behind
and urinate in a patch of woods nearby.

Board of County Supervisors Chairman Sean T. Connaughton (R) said one of the
biggest challenges is that there is no consensus on how to address the issue.

"We're essentially initiating a broader process to identify what exactly the
situation is . . . but also, more generally, to reach out to what is becoming
our fastest growing segment of the population," Connaughton said. "What I expect
is that a dialogue will open up after this meeting on Saturday."

Some of the arrests have also had serious repercussions. Eleven of the men
arrested last month were turned over to federal immigration authorities and face
deportation. The three arrested Monday remain in jail, unable to make bond, but
none was  turned over to immigration, police said.

Few localities have adopted Prince William's tactic of using loitering laws to
discourage day workers from crowding street corners or store parking lots.

Authorities in Arlington and Montgomery counties have tried to accommodate the
needs of poor immigrants by providing official day laborer sites. But such
jurisdictions as Herndon or Fairfax County have struggled to find a place for
them.

Prince William police Capt. Tim Rudy said the arrests had nothing to do with the
county's stance on immigration and were solely "a community maintenance issue."

"I think it's obvious that [the arrests] shed light on this issue and brought
things to the forefront, which is a good thing," he said.

Rudy said officers repeatedly have told workers to keep off the 7-Eleven
property after 9 a.m., when most businesses open. But the warnings have had
little effect.

"We know [the arrests] are not the solution," he said. "We are treating more the
symptoms than curing the problem. But it's hoped that this will quell the
concerns of the community . . . and maybe in reality, the arrests are helping
people work a little quicker on this issue."

Ricardo Juarez, a coordinator for the Workers Committee of Woodbridge, said the
laborers continue to go to the 7-Eleven because they are desperate for work. He
added that they are confused by the government response: On one hand, officials
seemed to be reaching out to them by scheduling the town hall meeting. Then came
new arrests, just days before that forum.

"It seemed like we were building good relationships with the authorities,"
Juarez said. "It's hard to understand. . . . [They are] just looking for work,
who don't have much money for their families."

Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge), an organizer of the town hall
gathering, said she is hoping that private organizations or charities will help
solve the problem.

"The laborers need a job; the community needs the laborers," she said. "We just
need to find a way to make the outcome of all of this positive."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2004



CORRECTION:  A Nov. 19 Metro article about laborers arrested earlier in the week
at a 7-Eleven in Woodbridge provided incorrect information about what happened
to the three. One was charged with a misdemeanor and given a court summons.

Two others could not provide proof of their identity and were held in jail; they
have since been released on bond.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              153 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 19, 2004 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Day Laborers to Protest Va. Arrests

BYLINE: David Cho, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 700 words


A second wave of arrests this week of Latino immigrants looking for jobs outside
a Woodbridge 7-Eleven is drawing attention to the treatment of immigrants in
Prince William County and pressuring officials to find an alternative  day
laborer site.

A town hall meeting is scheduled at 10 a.m. tomorrow at the Ferlazzo Building in
Woodbridge and will include Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), and several state
and county officials.

After the meeting, a group of day workers will meet at 1 p.m. to protest the
arrests. Last month, 24 laborers were charged with loitering. On Monday, three
more were charged.

Day laborer sites have caused debate in several jurisdictions undergoing rapid
demographic change, such as Prince William, where Latinos have grown from 9
percent of the population to 16 percent in the past four years, according to
county officials.

Prince William's practice of arresting Hispanic workers who congregate in hopes
of getting day jobs has been criticized as counterproductive by immigration
advocates and officials from other jurisdictions. At a time when ethnic gang
violence is becoming a growing law enforcement problem, police should be trying
to build ties with the Latino community, not sowing mistrust, these critics
said.

Several county officials and residents defended the arrests, saying that the day
worker site has become a disruption and that some laborers leave trash behind
and urinate in a patch of woods nearby.

Board of County Supervisors Chairman Sean T. Connaughton (R) said one of the
biggest challenges is that there is no consensus on how to address the issue.

"We're essentially initiating a broader process to identify what exactly the
situation is . . . but also, more generally, to reach out to what is becoming
our fastest growing segment of the population," Connaughton said. "What I expect
is that a dialogue will open up after this meeting on Saturday."

Some of the arrests have also had serious repercussions. Eleven of the men
arrested last month were turned over to federal immigration authorities and face
deportation. The three arrested Monday remain in jail, unable to make bond, but
none was  turned over to immigration, police said.

Few localities have adopted Prince William's tactic of using loitering laws to
discourage day workers from crowding street corners or store parking lots.

Authorities in Arlington and Montgomery counties have tried to accommodate the
needs of poor immigrants by providing official day laborer sites. But such
jurisdictions as Herndon or Fairfax County have struggled to find a place for
them.

Prince William police Capt. Tim Rudy said the arrests had nothing to do with the
county's stance on immigration and were solely "a community maintenance issue."

"I think it's obvious that [the arrests] shed light on this issue and brought
things to the forefront, which is a good thing," he said.

Rudy said officers repeatedly have told workers to keep off the 7-Eleven
property after 9 a.m., when most businesses open. But the warnings have had
little effect.

"We know [the arrests] are not the solution," he said. "We are treating more the
symptoms than curing the problem. But it's hoped that this will quell the
concerns of the community . . . and maybe in reality, the arrests are helping
people work a little quicker on this issue."

Ricardo Juarez, a coordinator for the Workers Committee of Woodbridge, said the
laborers continue to go to the 7-Eleven because they are desperate for work. He
added that they are confused by the government response: On one hand, officials
seemed to be reaching out to them by scheduling the town hall meeting. Then came
new arrests, just days before that forum.

"It seemed like we were building good relationships with the authorities,"
Juarez said. "It's hard to understand. . . . [They are] just looking for work,
who don't have much money for their families."

Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge), an organizer of the town hall
gathering, said she is hoping that private organizations or charities will help
solve the problem.

"The laborers need a job; the community needs the laborers," she said. "We just
need to find a way to make the outcome of all of this positive."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2004



CORRECTION:  A Nov. 19 Metro article about laborers arrested earlier in the week
at a 7-Eleven in Woodbridge provided incorrect information about what happened
to the three. One was charged with a misdemeanor and given a court summons.

Two others could not provide proof of their identity and were held in jail; they
have since been released on bond.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              154 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Day Laborer Forum in Pr. William Turns Raucous

BYLINE: Jacqueline L. Salmon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C08

LENGTH: 679 words


The clash between Latino immigrants who wait outside for day jobs and suburban
residents who accuse them of loitering heated up yesterday at a town hall
meeting and protest march in Woodbridge.

More than 100 people showed up for the often-tumultuous meeting. Waving signs
and occasionally erupting into shouts and catcalls, participants barraged public
officials with questions and comments and argued with each other over what to do
about day laborers who have been gathering at a Woodbridge 7-Eleven while
waiting for contractors to pick them up.

Last month, Prince William County police arrested 24 laborers at the site and
charged them with loitering. Last Monday, three more laborers were charged.
Eleven of the men have been turned over to federal immigration authorities and
face possible deportation.

Latino leaders have criticized the arrests as an excuse to harass immigrants and
deport them. After yesterday's meeting, about 75 day laborers and supporters
marched from a church to a Mexican restaurant next to the 7-Eleven to protest
the arrests.

The town hall meeting was organized by Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge),
who is pushing for a permanent job assistance center where day laborers could
gather.

Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.) told the crowd that Prince William -- where the
percentage of Latinos has climbed from 9 percent to 16 percent in four years --
is not alone in facing this issue. Other parts of Northern Virginia have also
confronted it, Davis said, as have communities across the country.

"This has national ramifications," said Davis, whose district, aides noted, is
30 percent immigrant.

Some participants criticized the day laborers in personal terms, saying that
most were illegal and urging Prince William police to continue to arrest them
and turn them over to immigration authorities.

"If they are illegal, take them away," said Michael Crowe of Springfield, a
member of the Virginia Coalition Against Terrorism. "Enforce the law. That's why
I pay my taxes."

Others questioned why the workers needed special services when temporary
employment agencies and the state unemployment office were available nearby.

"I don't understand why community resources have to go to accommodate day
laborers," April Gallop, 33, a Woodbridge resident, said to applause.

But others spoke in the workers' defense. "I've found them to be entirely, in my
experience, polite, hardworking people," said Bruce Smith, 60, who said day
laborers live in his neighborhood less than a mile from the 7-Eleven. "They have
been as good as neighbors as anybody in the neighborhood."

About a dozen day laborers sat silently throughout most of the meeting,
listening to a  Spanish translation on headphones. A representative of several
Latino groups spoke on their behalf.

"The fact that these folks are willing to stand on the street corner for a job
is honorable," said Julian Bermudez, chief executive of Hispanic Outreach
Leadership Action. "These folks are not terrorists; they're not mass murderers.
. . . They just want to pursue the American dream."

But J. Haga, 45, a Woodbridge resident who lives near the 7-Eleven, had a more
prosaic concern.

"It's okay that there are day laborers and stuff, but are they accountable for
paying taxes?" she asked in an interview. "Are they accountable for paying into
the medical system? . . . They have to be accountable for that."

Barg said she plans to organize a community task force to study the issue and
recommend solutions.

"I feel good about this meeting," she said. "People had to vent."

March organizer Ricardo Juarez said authorities are using the loitering charges
as an excuse to arrest and deport laborers. He said his group, the Workers
Committee of Woodbridge, plans to file suit challenging the constitutionality of
the loitering statute.

Laborer German Silva Guzman, 21, said some of the people at the meeting treated
the men as if they were terrorists. "This is unfortunate," he said through an
interpreter. All the day laborers want "is a better life for their families and
themselves."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              155 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2004 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Pr. William Has Raucous Forum on Laborers

BYLINE: Jacqueline L. Salmon, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 716 words


The clash between Latino immigrants who wait outside for day jobs and suburban
residents who accuse them of loitering heated up yesterday at a town hall
meeting and protest march in Woodbridge.

More than 100 people showed up for the often-tumultuous meeting. Waving signs
and occasionally erupting into shouts and catcalls, participants barraged public
officials with questions and comments and argued with each other over what to do
about day laborers who have been gathering at a Woodbridge 7-Eleven while
waiting for contractors to pick them up.

Last month, Prince William County police arrested 24 laborers at the site and
charged them with loitering. On  Monday, three more laborers were charged.
Eleven of the men have been turned over to federal immigration authorities and
face possible deportation.

Latino leaders have criticized the arrests as an excuse  to harass immigrants
and deport them. After yesterday's meeting, about 75 day laborers and supporters
marched from a church to a Mexican restaurant next to the 7-Eleven to protest
the arrests.

The town hall meeting was organized by Supervisor Hilda M. Barg (D-Woodbridge),
who is pushing for a permanent job assistance center where day laborers could
gather.

Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.) told the crowd that Prince William -- where the
percentage of Latinos has climbed from 9 percent to 16 percent in the past four
years -- is not alone in dealing with this issue. Other parts of Northern
Virginia have also struggled with it, Davis said, as  have communities across
the country.

"This has national ramifications," said Davis, whose district, aides noted, is
30 percent immigrant.

Some participants criticized the day laborers in personal terms, saying that
most were illegal and urging Prince William police to continue to arrest them
and turn them over to immigration authorities.

"If they are illegal, take them away," said Michael Crowe of Springfield, a
member of the Virginia Coalition Against Terrorism. "Enforce the law. That's why
I pay my taxes."

Others questioned why the workers needed special services when temporary
employment agencies and the state unemployment office were available nearby.

"I don't understand why community resources have to go to accommodate day
laborers," April Gallop, 33, a Woodbridge resident, said to applause.

But others spoke  in the workers' defense.

"I've found them to be entirely, in my experience, polite, hardworking people,"
said Bruce Smith, 60, who said day laborers live in his neighborhood less than a
mile from the 7-Eleven. "They have been as good as neighbors as anybody in the
neighborhood."

Alice Gardiner, a resident of Occoquan, compared the day laborers to commuters
waiting in HOV slug lines at commuter lots that dot the county. "What are those
people doing? Loitering," she said.

About a dozen day laborers sat silently throughout most of the meeting,
listening to a  Spanish translation on headphones. A representative of several
Latino groups spoke on their behalf.

"The fact that these folks are willing to stand on the street corner for a job
is honorable," said Julian Bermudez, chief executive of Hispanic Outreach
Leadership Action. "These folks are not terrorists, they're not mass murderers.
. . . They just want to pursue the American dream."

But J. Haga, 45, a Woodbridge resident who lives near the 7-Eleven, had a more
prosaic concern.

"It's  okay that there are day laborers and stuff, but are they accountable for
paying taxes?" she asked in an interview. "Are they accountable for paying into
the medical system?. . . . They have to be accountable for that."

Barg said she plans to organize a community task force to study the issue and
recommend solutions.

"I feel good about this meeting," she said. "People had to vent."

March organizer Ricardo Juarez said authorities are using the loitering charges
as an excuse to arrest and deport laborers. He said his group, the Workers
Committee of Woodbridge, plans to file suit challenging the constitutionality of
the loitering statute.

Laborer German Silva Guzman, 21, said some of the people at the meeting treated
the men as if they were terrorists. "This is unfortunate," he said through an
interpreter. All the day laborers want "is a better life for their families and
themselves."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2004



CORRECTION:  A Nov. 21 Metro article on a town hall meeting in Woodbridge about
day laborers incorrectly attributed a comment to Occoquan resident Alice
Gardiner. Another speaker made the comment; Gardiner did not speak at the
meeting.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              156 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Metro;
In Brief

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 976 words


THE REGION

The Washington district office of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has
opened at its new location in Fairfax County after moving from Arlington.

The facility, at 2675 Prosperity Ave., opened to the public yesterday. It
provides services only to those who have made appointments through an
Internet-based system known as InfoPass.

The new offices are across from the Dunn Loring stop on Metro's Orange Line. The
immigration service closed for several days for the move from its old offices,
at 4420 N. Fairfax Dr.

The Washington district office serves immigrants in the District and Virginia.

THE DISTRICT

The FBI terrorism informant who attempted suicide by setting himself on fire
outside the White House two weeks ago has been discharged from Washington
Hospital Center, where he was being treated for burns.

Hospital spokesman LeRoy Tillman said Mohamed Alanssi, 52, was released Sunday.
He said the FBI is handling further inquiries about the Yemeni-born Alanssi, who
ignited his gasoline-soaked clothing at a White House guard post Nov. 15.

A spokesman for the FBI office in New York declined to comment on Alanssi,
saying that "there is nothing on the public record that would allow us to
comment, so we won't." A law enforcement source said Alanssi remains under FBI
protection at a location outside the Washington area.

MARYLAND

Republicans in the Maryland House of Delegates called yesterday for an immediate
special session on medical malpractice reform, with one leader suggesting that
revenue from slot machines could be part of a solution.

"This caucus is ready and willing to come to work tomorrow," House Minority Whip
Anthony J. O'Donnell (R-Calvert) said at a news conference.

O'Donnell said passage of a bill legalizing slots, another stalled priority of
House Republicans, was one way the state could pay for a temporary fund to curb
doctors' malpractice insurance costs. Doctors covered by Maryland's largest
malpractice insurer are facing an average 33 percent increase in next year's
premiums.

State leaders have been discussing the creation of a fund to provide temporary
relief and a package of longer-term legal reforms.

A spike in online applications to the University of Maryland has caused the
university's Web site to slow in the last few days, prompting several calls and
e-mails from anxious students, a U-Md. spokeswoman said yesterday.

More than 11,000 students have submitted their applications online to meet the
university's priority deadline, originally set for midnight tomorrow, said
Cassandra Robinson, the spokeswoman. Robinson said the university has decided to
extend the deadline to next Wednesday because of the problems.

Students who apply by the priority deadline get first consideration for
admissions and financial aid. The next freshman class will have about 4,000
students.

Robinson said more students than last year have submitted their essays online,
contributing to the slowdown.

University officials are asking students to avoid submitting their applications
between 7 p.m. and midnight, when the site has slowed the most.

VIRGINIA

The 70-foot red spruce from the George Washington National Forest in Virginia
that will take center stage next week as the Capitol Christmas Tree has 70
attendants -- all Virginia-grown evergreens that will be scattered in other
prominent government locations in the District.

Trees will be on display in the offices of Virginia's senators and
representatives and at the departments of Agriculture and the Interior. In
addition, a 25-foot Virginia tree will stand at the Supreme Court.

The attendant trees come from Christmas tree farms across the state. The state's
Christmas Tree Growers Association asked its members to provide their most
handsome specimens for display in Washington.

"Overall we have gotten everything we need, including white pines, Scotch pines,
Douglas, Fraser and Concolor firs, blue spruce and white spruce in sizes from
eight to 25 feet tall," said Sue Bostic, association president.

A two-alarm fire in the Mount Vernon area Monday afternoon caused about $350,000
in damage to three townhouses, Fairfax County fire officials said yesterday. The
cause was under investigation.

One firefighter was slightly injured, and six people were displaced from their
homes.

Firefighters spotted heavy flames coming from the top floor and attic of a
townhouse on Audubon Meadow Way about 3:50 p.m. Monday and called a second
alarm, bringing more than 50 emergency personnel to the scene. The fire was
brought under control in about 20 minutes, but two adults and two children were
left homeless. Fire marshals estimated the damage at $300,000.

Two adjoining townhouses received damage totaling about $50,000, and two
residents in one of the adjacent homes were displaced. One firefighter was taken
to Inova Mount Vernon Hospital for treatment of a minor injury.

Nineteen fatalities were recorded on Virginia roads over the five-day
Thanksgiving weekend, Virginia State Police said yesterday.

Reckless driving was cited as the cause of 15 of the 18 fatal crashes. Alcohol
was a factor in five. Two victims were pedestrians, 10 were drivers and seven
were passengers. Victims ranged in age from 5 to 88.

In Northern Virginia, fatal accidents occurred in Fairfax, Spotsylvania and
Stafford counties.

As of yesterday, 803 traffic deaths had been reported in the state, compared
with 857 during the same time last year.

"After we got it, we gave it to a friend's sister, and she gave it to her
boyfriend . . . for his birthday."

--  Steven Simon, who, with friend Conrad "C.J." Mercure Jr.,

removed an inflatable SpongeBob SquarePants from the roof

of a Burger King in St. Mary's County  --  Page B1

Compiled from reports by staff writers Mary Beth Sheridan, Caryle Murphy, Allen
Lengel, John Wagner, Nancy Trejos and Tom Jackman.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              157 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 7, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Africa's Health Worker Exodus: Who's at Fault?

SECTION: Editorial; A24

LENGTH: 375 words


Regarding Sebastian Mallaby's Nov.  29 op-ed column, "How Africa Subsidizes U.S.
Health Care":

African health workers aren't just being lured away by better salaries in rich
countries. They are fleeing squalid and unsafe workplaces and staggering
workloads. Retaining them -- and recruiting the million more that Africa needs
-- will require a huge increase in African governments' own spending, vastly
more donor help and a more flexible approach to national budgets by the
International Monetary Fund.

Health care systems in Africa have been deteriorating for more than a decade,
thanks in part to macroeconomic strategies imposed by the IMF that harshly limit
hiring and expenditures.

Foreign recruiters should keep their hands off African health workers, but so
should the economists whose austere approach to public spending is bleeding
health systems to death.

HOLLY BURKHALTER

U.S. Policy Director

ERIC FRIEDMAN

Policy Research Associate

Physicians for Human Rights

Washington

*

Sebastian Mallaby says that the United States should limit its "poaching" of
African health care workers.

To borrow a line from H.L. Mencken, "There is always an easy solution to every
human problem -- neat, plausible and wrong."

Limiting immigrant health  workers, specifically nurses, would aggravate
everyone's shortage. One incentive to go into nursing  in developing countries
is the knowledge that   this is a field that allows for eventual immigration to
the United States. Mr. Mallaby's proposal would discourage African students from
going into  medical fields since they would essentially be held hostage in their
countries.

Most immigrant health care workers come here because they want a better life. I
am a registered nurse, and most of the African nurses I know  are go-getters who
are furthering their studies and skill levels. They want to get ahead, and they
know that won't happen in their homelands. No amount of subsidy from the United
States would keep them in their  countries.

The United States has a nursing shortage because we are not graduating enough
nurses. Perhaps our inefficient medical system needs reform to attract new
people into the field,   as opposed to paying salary subsidies to African
countries.

DAVID KANGAS

Germantown

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              158 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          December 15, 2004 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A Plea for Support of Innovation;
Business Group Urges R&D Tax Breaks, Immigration Law Reforms

BYLINE: Greg Schneider, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; E03

LENGTH: 684 words


America risks losing its leadership of the global economy if government and
industry fail to make changes that encourage innovation, a panel of leading
executives and university presidents say in a study to be released today.

A host of problems is eating away at the nation's economic strength even as
countries such as China and India work to lift their international status,
according to the Council on Competitiveness, a bipartisan group of some 400 top
executives and leaders of universities.

Nations such as Israel, Japan and South Korea spend a bigger percentage of gross
domestic product on research and development than the United States, and China
passed the United States last year as the top recipient of foreign direct
investment.

"While we remain the world's leader, the capacity for innovation is going global
-- and we must pick up the pace," the council says in its "National Innovation
Initiative" report. Prepared over the past 15 months by top business and
academic leaders -- including the chief executives of International Business
Machines Corp., General Motors Corp., American Airlines and PepsiCo Inc. and
presidents of universities such as Stanford, Columbia and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology -- the report offers a prescription for shoring up the
nation's economic vitality.

The formula includes tax breaks for business research and development,
overhauling immigration laws to encourage educated foreigners to work here and
tort reform to help companies take more risks with less threat of lawsuits for
failures.

Council members will outline their recommendations today at the Ronald Reagan
Building while President Bush convenes his own two-day economic summit across
town. While the White House conference focuses on a few politically charged
issues such as Social Security reform, "our agenda is a much broader one,"
council President Deborah L. Wince-Smith said. "Everything we looked at is in
terms of how this can increase productivity and standard of living growth for
all Americans."

The council tried to address the problems of individual workers struggling to
compete in the global economy. "There is tremendous anxiety in the country
because for the first time we're seeing the emergence in the developing
countries of smart, talented people who can do our highly skilled jobs for a
fraction of the hourly wage," Wince-Smith said.

Solutions include a variety of education grants, such as privately funded
scholarships for college students majoring in science and engineering and
federally funded fellowships for graduate students, as well as reforms to health
care and pension programs. The council suggests making such benefits portable,
so they can be retained by workers from job to job, and outlines plans to create
centralized databases of individual health care records.

The group also proposes a National Innovation Workforce Act to establish low-tax
savings accounts to pay for "lifelong learning" for employees.

Tort reform is a major cause for the business leaders on the council, who call
for cutting nationwide litigation costs by half. They also want the Department
of Defense to devote 20 percent of its science and technology budget to
long-term research, and the Patent Office to refocus on quality and to use its
database of patents to help foster innovation.

The council also calls for a rebirth of American manufacturing technology,
urging companies to work together to share best practices and even to establish
joint manufacturing centers.

"The United States must create the conditions that will stimulate individuals
and enterprises to innovate and take the lead in the next generation of
knowledge creation, technologies, business models and dynamic management
systems," the council says in its report.

Technology is changing global markets so quickly that old economic goals such as
efficiency and quality are no longer enough to remain competitive, the council
says. Business must also focus on "creating new markets, increasing choice and
value to customers and innovating continuously on a global basis," the report
concludes.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              159 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 20, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

ESL Enrollment Slows in Inner Suburbs;
Real Estate Prices And Zoning Cited

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1099 words


The once-rapid enrollment increase in classes for non-English speakers has
slowed suddenly in most of the area's inner suburban school systems, and puzzled
educators are trying to figure out why.

Education officials know that many immigrant families, priced out of the
gentrifying close-in neighborhoods, are moving to less expensive communities
farther out. Some officials suggest that recent economic doldrums could have
tamped down the number of new arrivals. One expert wonders whether some foreign
students are graduating more quickly from English classes.

"We think we know where they are going -- they are going to Prince William, the
Shenandoah Valley, Culpeper," said Allen C. Griffith, a Fairfax City School
Board member who coordinates a Virginia school boards committee on
immigrant-student issues. "We believe it's a function of the real estate prices
and perhaps a little bit stricter enforcement of the zoning codes with regard to
how many people can live in an apartment."

The area's immigrant population has soared in recent decades, revitalizing many
neighborhoods and straining budgets for schools and services. Experts say that
immigration might have receded nationwide in the past two years but that it
remains at the sizable levels of the mid-1990s. The census figures that experts
relied on are not precise enough to draw conclusions about whether immigration
has slowed, so school figures could offer an intriguing, early clue.

Immigration has been the major cause of population growth in four close-in
communities where foreign-student enrollments have slowed. In Arlington County,
classes for non-English speakers signed up fewer students this year than last
year. In Alexandria, enrollment has declined slightly for the past two years.
And enrollment rose slightly this fall in Fairfax and Montgomery counties, in
contrast to double-digit growth in years past.

In the District, enrollment in classes for students with limited English skills
continues to climb, according to State Education Office figures. And in Prince
George's County, which has the region's largest amount of moderately priced
suburban housing, school officials say enrollment growth has not slowed. Some
counties farther out in Maryland have seen modest increases, but some exurban
and rural Virginia counties continue to have dramatic upswings.

Nowhere have Arlington's shifting school demographics been more marked than at
Barrett Elementary School, near Ballston in one of the county's most
international neighborhoods. The school enrolls 340 students --  a decline of
about 150 students since 2001. Principal Theresa Bratt says that the decline is
mainly because of a decrease in foreign-born children in the community.

Bratt says that immigrant parents with modest-paying jobs tell her that they
cannot afford to live in Arlington, where the average assessment on a
single-family home is $369,600 this year. The families of several students who
attended Barrett said they are relocating to Prince William. Some families come
back for help with school paperwork "because they don't have bilingual
secretaries there," Barrett Elementary secretary Nellie Vargas said.

Several Barrett staff members have relocated from Arlington or Alexandria to
Prince William including Sandra Espinoza, a secretary born in El Salvador. She
says she went to high school in Arlington and did not want to leave but could
not afford to buy a house there. Three years ago, she and her husband bought a
three-bedroom $137,000 townhouse in Lake Ridge. Some of their neighbors are
former Arlington residents.

She says their home has doubled in value since they purchased it -- an advantage
for her but an obstacle for others who want to move there. "Now," she said,
"people from Arlington are moving further -- like Fredericksburg."

At Barrett, the enrollment decline means that three rooms that had been divided
by temporary partitions in 2001 no longer are split. Reading groups now do not
need to meet in hallways. There is room for a new preschool special-needs class.

In one classroom, in which the furniture was labeled "table," "chair" and
"desk," eight first-graders sat at a low table with ESL teacher Cindy McGonigle,
practicing their English alphabet. "Where's the W, sweetie?" she asked one
student, pointing to a letter on a chart. "Is this it?" The boy shook his head.
He rejected two other choices she offered before nodding his head at the correct
one.

Before enrollment began to decline, Bratt said, 12 or 15 students might have
been at the table.

"It's changing our school completely," Bratt said. "Having space is nice, but we
can have a few more people here."

In Fairfax County, enrollment grew 12 percent to 15 percent annually between
1998 and last year, and is increasing 3 percent to 4 percent a year, says Teddi
Predaris, director of the county's English for Speakers of Other Languages
office. "What we're anticipating is this steady kind of growth and perhaps a
decline in the future, just judging from Arlington," she said.

She has heard from immigrant families who say they are moving farther out
because housing is cheaper there. "Another [reason] is job opportunities,"
Predaris said. "There are more and more jobs opening up as construction is
evolving in Loudoun or Prince William to accommodate growing population needs."

"We're still experiencing growth, but it's not as much growth as it's been,"
said Karen Woodson, director of Montgomery County's English for Speakers of
Other Languages program. "Why it's less, I really can't tell you."

In Alexandria, "certainly the tightened immigration policies, we think, may have
had some effect," said Carol Lisi, director of Alexandria's English as a Second
Language program. "And affordable housing is an issue."

One immigration expert, Audrey Singer of the Brookings Institution, cautions
that the reasons behind the decline might be more complex than they seem. For
example, she suggests, it is possible that some students are mastering English
more quickly than in the past and graduating from ESL classes sooner, which
would keep numbers down.

Demographers say that the enrollment slowdown does not mean the area is becoming
less attractive to immigrants. They say that established family and social
networks will continue to encourage people to move here and that the region's
strong economy will have jobs to offer.

"I still think it's a very strong popular area to move to, to the extent that
housing can be found," Montgomery County schools demographer Bruce Crispell
said. "I still think people will find ways to live here."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              160 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 23, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For an Immigrant Marine, Burial Close to Home;
Va. Vietnamese Family Mourns at Arlington

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B07

LENGTH: 598 words


In life, Binh N. Le adopted this country as his own. In death, his country
returned the honor.

Le, 20, a Marine corporal who was born in Vietnam, grew up in Fairfax County and
died in Iraq, was buried yesterday under an unseasonably warm sun at Arlington
National Cemetery. Over his coffin stood two Marines in dress uniform, one
holding a U.S. flag steady in the breeze, the other the flag of the fallen South
Vietnam.

Le was killed Dec. 3 in Al Anbar province -- by a car bomb set off near a
checkpoint he was manning, his family was told. Cpl. Matthew A. Wyatt, 21, of
Millstadt, Ill., also died in the attack. Le, a member of the 5th Battalion,
10th Marine Regiment, was serving his second tour in Iraq and was scheduled to
come home in April.

As a boy in Vietnam, Le was adopted by Hau Luu and Thanh Le, an aunt and uncle
who soon immigrated to America. He was raised in the Alexandria section of
Fairfax by the couple and another aunt and uncle, Tuc-cuc Thi Tran and Luong La
of Dale City.

He visited his birth parents just once, a pilgrimage made after he graduated
from Fairfax's Edison High School in 2002. U.S. officials intervened to ensure
that they could come to the funeral, helping them secure visas and passports.

A Marine staff sergeant handed one folded U.S. flag to Le's father, Lien Van
Tran. With La translating, Tran, who once served in the South Vietnamese army,
told National Public Radio recently that he had not wanted his son to join the
Marines but was proud of his service.

"He did the right job for the family, for the country, for himself," Tran said.

La received a second U.S. flag. Nearby stood Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul
Wolfowitz and Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.).

Friends said Le embraced the life of an American teenager long before joining
the Marine Corps in 2000. He surrounded himself with devoted friends, many of
whom he met through Junior ROTC or Lorton's Gunston Bible Church.

They described him as energetic and engaging. In high school and afterward, he
played in a series of bands with young members of his church. One, a Christian
group called Eyeris, built a small, loyal following at churches and
coffeehouses. Drums were his passion, but he also had a talent for the keyboards
and trumpet, friends said.

"He played everything by ear," said Jamey Payne, a member of Eyeris. "As long as
he knew what it took to make a note come out of it, he could play it."

A Web site set up by his friend Paul Stadig features testimonials from dozens of
people. Le had so many friends, Stadig said, that many of them didn't know each
other. "All of his friends saw him as one of their best friends," he said. Next
summer, Le was to have served as a groomsman at Stadig's wedding.

Le was a groomsman at Payne's wedding in May 2003, arriving to the surprised
delight of the bride and groom, who thought he was still on his way home from
Iraq.

Le returned from his first tour brimming with stories of the gratitude of
ordinary Iraqis, friends said. Stadig recalled Le describing an Iraqi family
that invited the Marines for tea. When they were finished, the Marines handed
their cups back, only to find them quickly refilled. Many cups later, they
learned that according to local custom, if a guest drains his cup all the way,
it should always be refilled.

Payne said Le saw the conflict in Iraq through the prism of his own life story.

"He understood what it was like in a fairly oppressed society, and he really
enjoyed the freedoms he had over here," Payne said. "He wanted to help others
experience that. . . . It was a true American story."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              161 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 24, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

An Unlikely Occupation For Rooted Washingtonian

BYLINE: Nora Boustany

SECTION: A Section; A12 , DIPLOMATIC DISPATCHES Nora Boustany

LENGTH: 804 words


A third-generation Washingtonian, Michael Fix refers to himself as an improbable
scholar of migration.

He grew up at 1835 16th St. NW, where his late mother lived until July, just a
block and a half from where she grew up.

Now, Fix, 54, is moving from the Urban Institute at 2100 M St. NW to become vice
president and director of studies at the Migration Policy Institute at 1400 16th
St. NW, four blocks from his childhood home.

"The story for me is not that of migration and travel, but the story is about
how Washington has changed and how I was seduced into this kind of work," said
Fix, a leading U.S. expert on immigration and migrant communities.

At the Migration Policy Institute, Fix will focus on immigration and integration
policies. One in five U.S. children have immigrant parents, he pointed out, and
one in four low-income children come from an immigrant family.

"The country is changing. We want those children to be as economically mobile as
possible, successful and as productive as possible, and we want our policies to
serve that purpose," he said. "We do not want race and ethnicity to be powerful
predictions of outcomes of poverty and health."

On Monday, President Bush discussed immigration reform as a goal of his second
term and called for a system that would allow well-intentioned people to come
and work in the U.S. legally, doing "jobs that Americans will not do."

Fix said "most of the children of undocumented immigrant workers are U.S.
citizens. How do we provide for the successful integration of U.S. immigrant
kids?"

A main policy concern is language proficiency. "Hardship and poverty are much
more closely related to language skills than to being undocumented. These are
all hot-button issues culturally, but we need an instrumentally driven language
policy to help these people naturalize and integrate, to help their juniors do
homework."

Fix's affinity for studying diverse communities developed when he was 15. "I
started out working up the street at the All Souls Unitarian Church, for the
Columbia Heights Boys' Club on Harvard Street," he said. "I made very dear
friends with the other counselors."

Midway during Fix's time at the Boys' Club, race riots broke out in Washington.

"I was the only full-time, paid, white staff member, but for an occasional
volunteer here and there. They were very tolerant of me. It made me so deeply
respectful of them and it broke down so many of the barriers that typically
existed in the '60s," he said.

"I made friendships that were different and that I have until now. What made
them different was that Washington was a very segregated city, spatially, in
terms of class, and, of course, in terms of race."

While his college contemporaries were engaged in the anti-war movement, Fix was
fixed on civil rights. He eventually left for Mississippi to work for the
brother of a slain civil rights leader. "We were high on adrenaline since there
was quite a bit at stake," he reminisced.

Fix received a bachelor of arts degree from Princeton in 1972 and earned a law
degree from the University of Virginia in 1977.

After graduating, he worked at the City of Alexandria's Office of Equal
Opportunity. "It was the war on poverty and the desegregation of Alexandria.
Unlike today, it was very much a poor black and a poor white story," he said.

He said that "these patterns, for someone who has never moved an inch really,
were powerful issues of global migration."

He had a brief stint at the London School of Economics in 1979 "under the false
premise of studying economics" while his wife was teaching in England.

Fix devoted himself to civil rights issues in the '60s and '70s but "picked up
the immigration bug in the '80s," said Demetrios Papademetriou, president of the
Migration Policy Institute.

"He is seasoned, thoughtful and has a law-based analytical bent, and he applies
social measures to offer solutions to problems. Not only does he have expertise,
but he is also passionate. He cares about what happens to people once they
settle."

For three years, while at the Urban Institute, Fix worked on the Immigration
Reform and Control Act, which passed in 1986. The neglected issues of the 1980s
are back on the table, he said.

"There is a mismatch between our immigration policies and immigrant integration
policy. Even now, the U.S. admits more immigrants, on track for citizenship,
than many people imagine, at the rate of 700,000 to 800,000 a year, sometimes
reaching 1 million."

Today, Fix lives in Alexandria in a neighborhood that was once a target of his
research.

"When we bought it, it was in the process of changing. Now, my Zip code is
tracked every month in the Wall Street Journal as a location for young and
upwardly mobile professionals," he said. "Alexandria, like Washington, like my
life, has changed."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              162 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 24, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Money Is Not Enough at Christmas;
Many Filipino Immigrants Ship Presents Overseas

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 1056 words


For Sabina Castro and other Filipino immigrants, these are the top gifts on
their Christmas shopping list:

Boxes of Pop Secret popcorn. Jumbo jars of Maxwell House instant coffee and
Coffeemate creamer. And Clinique cosmetics, especially with the free bonus bag.

The items that the Castro family has collected for months are arriving in a
specially delivered box to their relatives and friends in the Philippines, where
the most ordinary American products are considered holiday luxuries.

"A little goes a long way," said Castro, 49, a Rockville accountant who
immigrated 20 years ago. "It's always nice to remember people who you really
love. They get items from here, they get so excited."

It is a  common immigrant duty to send cash remittances. But for a personal
touch, particularly at Christmas, Filipino immigrants also send care packages
that they call balikbayan boxes. Balikbayan is a Tagalog phrase used to refer to
Filipinos living overseas -- a group that, collectively, is the island's largest
source of foreign exchange.

More so than immigrants from Central American countries, Filipinos in the
Washington area rely on shipping services to send gifts overseas for the
holidays. The Philippines is too far away and expensive to visit regularly.

Alexandria is home to the world headquarters of Forex, a shipping company that
Philippine government officials helped launch to connect the immigrants -- and
their money -- to their homeland. The company, which has offices across the
United States and in seven other countries, started as a response to the near
collapse of the Philippine economy in the early 1980s. Last year, overseas
Filipinos sent about $7.6 billion in remittances, with more than half coming
from those living in the United States, according to the Central Bank of the
Philippines.

At least 300,000 balikbayan boxes are sent each year from the United States,
according to Forex officials. About 60,000 are from the Washington region, which
has an estimated 34,000 people of Filipino descent.

In Forex's Alexandria warehouse recently, hundreds of boxes were stacked nearly
to the ceiling. Each box had been picked up from the sender's home. From the
warehouse, the packages embark on a 45-day trip -- to Los Angeles by rail,
Manila by sea and then to the recipient's front door by van, motorbike or
fishing boat, a total of nearly 9,000 miles.

"We are a very poor country," said Jaime M. Carino, Forex's founder, explaining
the importance of the boxes. "The immigrants are the national heroes."

After a package arrives, the senders get an unusual type of confirmation: a
photo of their relatives posing in front of the box.

Romuel Saygo, a software engineer in Sterling who immigrated in 1998, has made
an album of his photo receipts from Forex. On his computer desktop at work are
two scanned photos of his mother and father next to their boxes.

"I can see their faces, and they're very happy. They're happy regardless of
what's in there," said Saygo, 29. "I don't have relatives here, so the pictures
are the only things I have."

Gloria Campos of Northwest Washington, who immigrated in 1960, said she has been
away from the Philippines for so long that she barely knows some of the
recipients of her packages.

Still, the retired hairdresser sends seven boxes of canned goods and clothing
every year to her old farming village. She sends things, in particular, to the
children of a cousin who is now deceased. She said she will always remember how
the cousin took care of her father and elderly aunt long ago and sent regular
reports to her from the Philippines.

"We have to return back the good deeds," said Campos, 80. "I don't need to be
rich, but I can always spare."

These days, immigrants don't even have to go through the trouble of packing a
balikbayan box. Many use the Forex Web site to order prepackaged boxes, which
feature Swiss Miss hot chocolate mix, Prego spaghetti sauce and Spam.

Forex officials said the service was started after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, when  shipping boxes became more complicated because of security
concerns. Since then, the company has added items  such as whole roasted pigs
and refrigerators, packaged in Forex warehouses in the Philippines. As a result,
last-minute shoppers can order three days before Christmas.

Still, many Filipino immigrants prefer putting together their own balikbayan
boxes, even though  they have to plan months ahead to make sure the packages
arrive on time.

Sabina Castro said she starts buying items for her relatives when U.S. stores
have their Labor Day sales, which happens to be about the same time the
Christmas shopping season  starts in the Philippines. (The predominantly
Catholic country is so enthusiastic about Christmas that most people have
decorated their homes and shops by September.)

"It's become part of our holiday routine," said Castro, who sends her boxes by
November. "When they have really good bargains, you stock up."

Rina Castro, 20, has met her teenage cousins in the Philippines twice, but feels
as if she knows them well. As the cousins were growing up, she sent them
McDonald's Happy Meal toys, Seventeen magazine and University of Maryland
T-shirts. The cousins exchanged letters, using the box items as a conversation
starter.

"It's a huge part of keeping up with our cultural identity," said Rina, a junior
at the University of Maryland.

Most of the U.S.-brand products that immigrants send are widely available in the
Philippines. But the items are costly because they are imported, and most
families, even middle-class ones, are reluctant to spend precious dollars on
such items.

Sometimes, members of the Castro family joke about how their relatives enjoy
getting the most common American goods. The contents of the balikbayan box is
probably worth much less than the $57 in shipping costs, said Jose Castro,
Rina's father, an accountant.

But in 1997, during  a visit to the homeland, the Castros saw the true value of
their gifts. One relative had proudly displayed in a glass cabinet every Happy
Meal toy sent to him over the years.

Coming back to the United States, the Castros found themselves coveting and
bringing back the most ordinary items from the Philippines: spice mixes, dried
mangoes and printed cotton pajamas.

"Simple joys," Sabina Castro said, "simple pleasures."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              163 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 26, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Maze

BYLINE: Helen Epstein

SECTION: Editorial; B07

LENGTH: 650 words


In 1999 my husband and I moved to New York from Europe. He is Czech, and in 2000
we submitted a green card application to what was then known as the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

This should have been routine. I am an American citizen, and my spouse has a
right to reside here with me as long as he is not a common criminal or a
terrorist. After three years, my husband's green card application had still not
been approved. During this time, his grandmother became ill and died, but he was
unable to visit her. Had he done so, he might never have been allowed to return
to the United States.

Our venture through the bureaucracy of what is now known as the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services (BCIS) and the FBI, which, since November
2001 has been conducting background checks on all potential immigrants, has been
so bizarre that it raises questions about whether these agencies are up to the
simplest of tasks, much less protecting the country against foreign terrorists.

The number of people suffering ordeals similar to ours is enormous and grows
every day. Lawyers, immigration officers and other insiders have told me that
the immigration services were thrown into chaos by the reorganization following
the creation of the Department of Homeland Security after Sept. 11, 2001. Many
officers in both the BCIS and the FBI have been given new duties. Many lines of
communication -- between headquarters and district offices, for example, and
between congressional offices and district offices -- have been rerouted so that
information about particular cases is now harder than ever to obtain. Phone
numbers have been changed, personnel moved and immigration and FBI officers
overwhelmed with complaints and new paperwork and other distractions -- none of
which are likely to make us any safer.

The piles of unattended green-card applications at the FBI and the BCIS suggest
that the "streamlining" of immigration services that the administration
predicted would follow the establishment of the DHS has not taken place. BCIS
officers themselves complained to me about the turmoil they confront daily. This
may partly explain, though it does not excuse, their legendary unhelpfulness,
which borders on, and often exceeds, the boundaries of etiquette.  This does not
sound like "streamlining" to me.

At times, I feared I would be calling the BCIS customer information line from my
grave, and they still wouldn't tell me what was going on with our green-card
application.

I wrote to both New York senators, as well as to the secretary of homeland
security at the time, Tom Ridge, and to acting BCIS commissioner Eduardo
Aguirre. None ever acknowledged my letters. When I called Sen. Hillary Clinton's
office six months later, I was told that she receives so many complaints about
the BCIS that her assistants are unable to keep up with the correspondence. Thus
another heap of paper grows in her office, this one a child of the heaps of
unattended applications at the BCIS and the FBI. I asked what sort of
legislative remedies the senator or anyone else had proposed to address this
dire situation, but no one in Clinton's office could provide an answer.

In desperation, I finally appealed to a close relative who holds a senior
position in the State Department. One month later my husband's green card was
approved.

But most of the people suffering because of this situation have no political
voice in this country. This probably explains why so many bureaucrats and
lawmakers don't take the issue seriously.

Many immigrants take low-paying jobs Americans refuse. They drive our taxis,
build our houses, weed our gardens, serve our fast-food breakfasts, lunches and
dinners. Without them, the service industries, the backbone of America's economy
right now, would collapse. They deserve better than this, and so do we.

Helen Epstein teaches and writes on health subjects.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              164 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tracking Down Immigrant Fugitives;
Md. Squad Part Of Get-Tough Effort

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1399 words


The rendezvous was in front of Shoe City. In the frosty darkness, four Homeland
Security officers strapped bulletproof vests over their sweat shirts and
fingered their pistols. It was 5 a.m., and the voice of their supervisor,
Raymond Smith, sliced through the silence in the parking lot of Prince George's
Plaza.

"Take a look at this," said Smith, a beefy D.C. native with a shaved head. He
passed around a folder on their first target, a 25-year-old West African. The
immigrant had been ordered deported in 2003 but never left the United States.
Now, he was living in a Hyattsville apartment -- or so Smith hoped.

"We've got a 50-50 chance of getting him," he said.

Smith is part of an effort to track down 370,000 "absconders" -- illegal
immigrants who have disobeyed orders to leave the country. As part of a
get-tough approach after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the Homeland Security
Department has deployed 18 fugitive squads to catch these immigrants, including
a team in Maryland.

A morning with Smith's team shows how difficult it is to find absconders, part
of a rising tide of illegal immigration. The fugitive squads capture 35 people a
day across the country, on average. But each day, another 70 immigrants are
ordered deported and fail to comply, officials say. So the absconder population
grows ever larger.

"We're still in the midst of the battle in terms of control," acknowledged
Victor Cerda, a top official at the department's Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The immigrant sought by Smith's team was typical of the problem. Etienne Kabert,
a short, small-boned man from Ivory Coast, had applied for political asylum,
officials said. He was turned down, and an immigration appeals court sent him a
letter in July 2003 ordering him to leave the country.

He never did.

Like Kabert, most immigrants aren't jailed while their cases are heard. About
one-third vanish before their cases are decided, Cerda said. Of the remainder,
about 85 percent of those who get deportation notices don't show up for final
processing, he said.

For years, the absconders knew that immigration agents were too busy to turn up
at their doors.

That is changing, as was evident as Smith's team cruised down Queens Chapel Road
on a recent Tuesday. Under a moonlit sky, Smith watched his officers file into
the Hamilton Manor Apartments. A light snapped on in an upstairs window. But it
was Kabert's roommate. The man they sought was working an overnight shift, the
officers relayed to their supervisor.

Smith gazed impassively at the building.

"We'll be back," he declared.

The absconder program began as the immigration system was facing a volley of
criticism after the Sept. 11 attacks. What better place to start fixing the
system, officials reasoned, than the absconders? Unlike most of the country's 8
million or more illegal immigrants, the absconders were known to the government
-- because they'd been detained briefly on immigration charges or had applied
for legal status. And they'd had their day in court.

At the top of the list were 6,000 absconders from Muslim and Middle Eastern
countries, officials announced.

But by early 2003, authorities had resolved only 38 percent of those cases,
either by detaining the immigrants or by confirming that they had left the
country or gotten legal status, according to the 9/11 Commission. In a report on
terrorist travel, the commission concluded: "It is very difficult to find alien
absconders without extraordinary effort or pure luck."

The reasons for the difficulty were clear as Smith's team glided through the
slumbering neighborhoods of Hyattsville. The officers had three targets in
addition to Kabert. They had tried to pinpoint the immigrants by scouring real
estate and other records. But the absconders left few paper trails.

At 6:20 a.m., the fugitive squad pulled up in front of a tiny house on 31st
Place with a birthday balloon bobbing from the mailbox. The target: a British
immigrant ordered deported a decade ago. Like up to 20 percent of the
absconders, he had a criminal record, for marijuana distribution and child
abuse, officials said. But the couple who answered the door said the man had
moved three months earlier.

The team moved on to its next target, a Nigerian believed to be living in an
apartment tower called the Seville. Minutes after the agents disappeared into
the elevator, Smith's radio crackled. "There's no occupant. They just moved in
September."

Smith chewed his gum and looked into the darkness. "Couple days late. This is
the frustrating part."

Then it was on to 17th Avenue and a brick rambler trimmed with white icicle
lights. The officers were seeking a Guatemalan man. They found a Salvadoran
family.

"Green cards galore," said an agent, emerging from the home.

Smith sighed. "Boy, this makes for a long day." The Guatemalan had moved years
ago.

The search for the absconders wasn't supposed to be this difficult. When the
program was announced in December 2001, officials said they would put the
absconders' names into FBI's National Crime Information Center database. That
would allow local and state police to identify whether people they stopped for
routine infractions were on the list.

But after three years, only 38,521 names are in the database -- about 10 percent
of the absconders -- said Russ Knocke, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, or ICE. "It's a workload issue," he explained.

Dozens of federal lawmakers have backed measures to enlist local and state
police in the effort to detain illegal immigrants, including absconders. But the
idea has been fiercely opposed by immigrant advocates and some politicians, who
believe it would shatter the trust between police and immigrant communities,
making it harder to solve crimes. Some also worry it could foster ethnic
profiling.

For all their frustrations, the fugitive teams have made progress. In the first
seven months of fiscal 2004, they apprehended 7,239 absconders, twice as many as
in the same period a year earlier, according to ICE statistics. The agency is
drawing up plans for 30 more teams, probably including one focused on both the
District and Northern Virginia. But budget problems have bedeviled ICE, and
Knocke said it wasn't clear if all 30 teams would be fielded by the end of 2005.

Even with the new teams, it will be hard to track down all the absconders. But
the squads at least are starting to change a culture of impunity, officials say.
As recently as the 1980s, many immigrants showed up for deportation processing,
former officials said. But then a surge of illegal immigration overwhelmed the
ability of agents to keep up.

"People feel they can get away with running . . . because the immigration law
isn't enforced anywhere else," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which seeks more limits on newcomers.

The solution goes beyond adding fugitive teams, officials say. Cerda, an intense
young Mexican American lawyer who heads the detention program at ICE, said the
government has to keep people from becoming absconders in the first place.

Cerda is overseeing several pilot programs to better track immigrants through
their court proceedings. Some immigrants are required to wear electronic ankle
bracelets; others must call in periodically. Locking up everyone facing
immigration charges isn't feasible because of a lack of detention beds, he said,
but another solution must be found. "The honor system has failed," he said.

By 7:50 a.m., Smith's team had returned to Kabert's apartment building. As the
agents went inside, Smith absentmindedly rapped his knuckles on the steering
wheel of his Ford Expedition. Traffic whooshed by. Smith stared silently out the
window. A radio deejay's voice filled the Expedition. "Angela, you just won
$1,000!" "Ooooh!" exclaimed Angela.

Twenty minutes passed.

Suddenly, Smith's gaze focused on a slender man with a cocoa complexion
alighting from a bus. The man spotted the agents emerging from the apartment
building and abruptly started walking around it. But one of the officers was
waiting.

"We got him!" yelled the officer.

It was Etienne Kabert. He meekly led the officers to his apartment, where he had
ID cards with various names and birth dates, as well as a French passport he had
acquired years ago.

Smith had gotten his man. One down, 8,500 absconders to go in Maryland.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              165 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 2, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Haitians in South Florida Are Wary of Public Places;
U.S. Immigration Is Looking to Deport Them, They Say;
Agency Denies Identity Checks Are Rising

BYLINE: Ruth Morris, South Florida Sun-Sentinel

SECTION: A Section; A14

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.


Bus stops, Caribbean markets and the corner barbershop  have become sources of
alarm and fury for South Florida's Haitian immigrants, who say federal agents
are scouring their neighborhood's workaday places for people to deport.

As the Department of Homeland Security pushes forward with immigration
enforcement, Haitians say their communities are being hit hard with ID checks,
surprise arrests and ramped-up deportations.

On Creole-language radio stations, fear tinges the voices of listeners, calling
daily to relate their reluctance to take a bus, visit the doctor or eat out.

"Everyone is afraid to go out right now," said Tony Jean-Thenor, chairman of the
Veye-Yo political watch group in Miami's Little Haiti. "I have been here since
1981, and it's the first time I've heard such stories. This is the talk of the
town in the Haitian community."

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency under DHS makes no secret of an
aggressive move to apprehend and deport more criminals, as well as immigrants
who overstay their visas. But the agency says  it is acting on its congressional
mandate, and it adamantly denies focusing on Haitians over other groups.

"Our enforcement operations do not target one particular nationality, race or
ethnicity over any other," said agency spokesman Dean Boyd, echoing comments by
other federal immigration agencies, such as the U.S. Border Patrol. "The laws
are applied evenly across the board."

But Haitian activists say U.S. immigration policy is tilted against them. They
point to a two-month surge in calls to their offices, reporting more and more
deportations to their hobbled homeland.

Whether based on a lopsided policy or rumor, fear of deportation has gripped the
listeners of Variety and Vibration, the Creole-language radio program hosted by
Andre Joseph on WLQY-1320. Inundated by calls about immigration operations,
Joseph has taken to reminding his audience not to leave home without their
immigration papers, advice the community is taking seriously.

If Joseph hears of an enforcement drive while  he is on the air, he pushes a
button on the control board in his studio that produces the jarring sound of a
pack of barking dogs.

"We get treated like dogs, put in jail and deported. It's not fair. It's a
discrimination," said Joseph, known as Yeye Boul to listeners.

His sentiments were echoed throughout the Haitian communities in Lake Worth,
North Miami and Fort Lauderdale, where the perceived spike in deportations has
reignited charges that Haitians are sought by immigration officials while Cubans
face softer policies.

"When the Cubans get here, they get water and a blanket," Joseph said, referring
to the law that allows Cubans who reach U.S. soil to be released to their
families and stay here legally. "How can you send somebody back to Haiti right
now? It's a jungle."

Carline Paul, a youth organizer in Miami, said 10 of her students had stopped
coming to after-school programs for fear they might run into an immigration
agent.

"Their parents are afraid our office could be a good place to knock and ask for
papers, so they're not letting them come," she said.

Even Haitians with their documents in order said they were feeling a strain.
Lyvie Fatal, a health educator and a naturalized citizen, said she recently
canceled a visit to her sister in North Miami because she could not find her
passport and was afraid to leave home without it.

"It's a humiliation," she said of U.S. immigration policy toward Haitians.

Victor Colon, a South Florida spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol at the
Customs and Border Protection agency, said agents routinely ask people for their
papers at transportation hubs, such as bus stops, but that those checks had not
increased in recent months.

There is no question, however, that deportations are on the rise. Immigration
announced in November that it had deported 157,281 illegal immigrants during
fiscal 2004, a 7 percent increase in removals of criminals and a 10 percent
increase in removals of noncriminals, such as tourists who overstayed their
visas, compared with 2003.

The agency did not respond to a request for month-by-month statistics on
deportations to Haiti. Local Haitian leaders said the removals had dropped off
in September when flooding unleashed by Tropical Storm Jeanne swept thousands to
their deaths. Over recent weeks, they said, the deportations have increased.

Haitian civic leaders, immigrant advocates and lawmakers have long cited the
chaos in Haiti in their campaign to grant temporary protected status to Haitians
already in the United States. The status would come with a work permit and an
exemption from deportation for the time being, but the campaign has been
fruitless so far. In a partial concession, the Department of Homeland Security
has said it will not deport Haitians to storm-ravaged regions, such as Gonaives.

Immigration lawyer Mark Citrin said his Miami office had seen an increase in
calls from immigrants fighting deportation proceedings, but he said the wave
began six to eight months ago and was not limited to Haitian clients. Haitians
tend to live in more concentrated enclaves than other groups in South Florida,
he added, making it easier for immigration agents to focus searches.

"We have a very large community of Haitians in South Florida with deportation
orders," Citrin said. "If you're a fisherman, that's a good place to fish."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              166 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 3, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Red Light on Green Cards

SECTION: Editorial; A12

LENGTH: 393 words


I have a son who has a type of autism similar to Chris Takaishi's and who has a
similar history [Metro, Dec. 26]. He was born in a country where his illness was
not recognized and where rehabilitation services were lacking. My son is lucky:
Because he was born to me, an American citizen, he can remain in this country.

Mr. Takaishi is being forced to return to a country where he will have a
difficult time. He doesn't read or write Japanese, and he has no social support
group. He has no job and probably has little chance of getting one, given his
lack of language skills.

This young man has proven that he can take care of himself here in the United
States. He pays taxes on his salary, and plenty of people are ready to support
his getting a green card. So why is he forced back to Japan?

Years before Sept. 11, 2001, I worked for a U.S. embassy abroad, and even then I
was disgusted with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Now I find our
immigration policies despicable. Plenty of illegal immigrants are afforded a
wink and a nod because they are needed for their cheap labor, while others who
are here legally are sent packing for the slightest reason.

Mr. Takaishi would have been an inspiration here for others with autism; his
loss leaves many hearts broken among the American families that gave so freely
of their time and love to help make him a successful member of the community.

BRENDA SOUTO

Silver Spring

*

Helen Epstein's Czech husband's difficulties getting a green card are
unacceptably Kafkaesque ["Immigration Maze," op-ed, Dec. 26]. But her claim that
"many immigrants take low-paying jobs that Americans refuse" is  a shibboleth.
The huge numbers of uneducated, unskilled immigrants pouring across our borders
-- 3 million  illegal immigrants in 2004 alone, according to Time magazine --
amount to outsourcing by importing cheap labor. The resulting competition with
Third World labor pushes wages down to levels no American should have to accept.

Studies from such diverse sources as the National Academy of Sciences, George
Borjas of Harvard University, and the University of California at Los Angeles's
Chicano Studies Research Center show that mass immigration depresses wages among
the most deprived U.S. citizens. It also undoubtedly accounts for the current
high rate of unemployment.

DAVID C. HOLZMAN

Lexington, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              167 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Legal Residency Extended for Salvadorans;
Immigrants From Quake-Torn Land Get 18 More Months of Protected Status

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 566 words


The U.S. government yesterday announced an 18-month extension of a program that
has given legal residence to about 250,000 Salvadoran immigrants while their
country recovers from a pair of powerful earthquakes.

The program,  which provides "temporary protected status," was opened to
Salvadorans in March 2001 after the devastating temblors. It has been extended
twice before.

The TPS program is so important to El Salvador that its president, Tony Saca, is
scheduled to begin a campaign today in Washington urging immigrants to
re-register. Salvadoran officials estimate that immigrants with TPS sent home
nearly $1 billion last year, or about 40 percent of the nation's remittances.

Yesterday's announcement  was expected after the recent extension of a TPS
program for immigrants from Honduras and Nicaragua, which were battered by a
1998 hurricane. In  recent days, U.S. officials pondered granting a similar
benefit to immigrants from South Asia whose countries were ravaged by the
tsunami, but ultimately decided against it, according to a source at the
Department of Homeland Security who spoke on condition of anonymity.

In the Washington area, home to the second-largest population of Salvadorans in
the United States, immigrants were jubilant about the extension.

"I think it's great. I only hope that the next step could be permanent residency
for these people," said Luis Romero, president of Salvadoreños Asociados de
Maryland, a community group.

To opponents of the measure, however, such expectations are the problem. They
said the extension would allow people to sink deeper roots into U.S. society,
making it harder to send them home eventually.

"We're a generous people. We're always thinking of trying to help people in
trouble. But usually what happens is these people are here illegally," said Bill
Buchanan of the American National Committee for Immigration Reform. "There is a
point at which the disaster [in their homeland] is ameliorated."

In reviewing El Salvador's recovery from the 2001 earthquakes, U.S. diplomats
found that nearly half the people who lost housing in the disaster are still
without permanent shelter, according to a statement yesterday from Homeland
Security. Reconstruction of damaged hospitals is not expected to be completed
until 2007, the statement said.

The agency said the 248,282 Salvadorans who qualify for the extension have 60
days to re-register, starting today. U.S. officials urged immigrants to start
the process soon, because they will have to visit special service centers for
photos and fingerprinting required for new permits with biometrics.

Salvadorans are the largest immigrant group in the Washington area, numbering
nearly 105,000 in the 2000 Census. Salvadoran Ambassador Rene Leon, who believes
the population is much larger, said his embassy will be working with local
community organizations to re-register immigrants. One group, Carecen, has
scheduled an information session on TPS at 3 p.m. tomorrow at its Washington
office, 1459 Columbia Rd. NW.

"If you don't register early . . . your work permit can be late" in arriving,
Leon warned. However, U.S. officials said they would change the expiration date
for current permits from March 9, 2005, to Sept. 9, 2005, allowing time for
documents to be distributed.

More information is available at the hotline for U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, 800-375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              168 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 12, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Nominee Criticized Over Post-9/11 Policies

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 936 words


Michael Chertoff, President Bush's nominee to be secretary of homeland security,
is widely hailed for his intellectual heft and tireless work habits as a federal
prosecutor and judge. But he also faces criticism as an architect of some of the
most controversial elements of the Bush administration's domestic war on
terrorism that followed the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

As an assistant attorney general in the months after the attacks, Chertoff
helped oversee the detention of 762 foreign nationals for immigration
violations; none of them was charged with terrorism-related crimes. A subsequent
report by the Justice Department's inspector general determined that Justice's
"no bond" policy for the detainees -- a tactic whose legality was questioned at
the time by immigration officials -- led to lengthy delays in releasing them
from prison, where some faced "a pattern of physical and verbal abuse."

"We're very concerned that Judge Chertoff views immigration solely through the
lens of national security and counterterrorism, and that his record on
counterterrorism needs to be closely examined," said Kate Martin, director of
the Center for National Security Studies, a civil liberties group.

But Chertoff's admirers say he is respectful of constitutional protections, and
they stress his legal skills as a prosecutor and lawyer in private practice.

"He's got the right mix of substantive knowledge and administrative skill that
is needed for this job," said George Terwilliger, a senior Justice Department
official in the George H.W. Bush administration who is close to the White House.

Chertoff, 51, served for three years as the head of the Justice Department's
criminal division, where he supervised terrorism cases and oversaw the
prosecution of corporate criminals, among other cases. For the past year and a
half, he has served as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit,
based in Philadelphia.

The son of a rabbi in northern New Jersey, Chertoff impressed his fellow
students with a slashing style of argument in 1975 in their first year at
Harvard Law School. Scott Turow, a classmate who is now a successful novelist,
drew on Chertoff's verbal volleys in his first book, "One L," a semi-fictional
memoir of life in law school.

Chertoff was a clerk to Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan Jr. in 1979 and
1980. In 1983, he joined the U.S. attorney's office in New York, where he
prosecuted Mafia figures. Later, in New Jersey, he made his mark pursuing
corrupt politicians, including former Jersey City mayor Gerald McCann.

Known for his intensity and political savvy, he was U.S. attorney for New Jersey
under President George H.W. Bush and during the first year of President Bill
Clinton's term. But Chertoff soon turned against his former White House boss
when, in 1994, he became counsel to a special congressional panel headed by Sen.
Alfonse M. D'Amato (R-N.Y.) that looked into the Whitewater real estate scandal
and other Clinton business deals.

But it is Chertoff's central role in designing the nation's counterterrorism
policies after Sept. 11 that is likely to prompt scrutiny from some Senate
Democrats handling his confirmation.

In the chaotic weeks after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon, Attorney General John D. Ashcroft, fearful that other terrorist
"sleepers" might mount new attacks, ordered the detention of hundreds of Middle
Eastern, North African and South Asian men who had committed even minor
immigration violations. He named Chertoff, as head of the criminal division, to
lead the effort.

Civil liberties groups soon denounced the policy, which caused the men to be
held incommunicado for weeks at a time. Detainees were held an average of three
months before being cleared of suspicion and released. Administration officials
acknowledged later that the FBI at the time was so overwhelmed with terrorism
investigations that many of the detainees languished in jail before agents
cleared their names.

In 2003, Justice Department Inspector General Glenn A. Fine released a lengthy
report concluding that top government officials instituted a "hold until clear"
policy for the detainees even though immigration officials questioned the
policy's legality.

The American Civil Liberties Union said in a statement that Chertoff should be
grilled by senators about his enforcement of the USA Patriot Act and other
counterterrorism initiatives the group has condemned. "We are troubled that his
public record suggests he sees the Bill of Rights as an obstacle to national
security," the ACLU said.

At a Senate hearing in November 2001 about Justice's aggressive counterterrorism
efforts, Chertoff said, "Are we being aggressive and hard-nosed? You bet. . . .
In the aftermath of September 11, how could we not be?"

The week after Fine's report was released, Chertoff was confirmed 88 to 1, with
11 senators not voting, for the appeals court job. The sole senator to vote
against him that day -- and in his 95 to 1 Senate confirmation to head the
criminal division in 2001 -- was Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.). Chertoff
fought within the administration to keep accused Sept. 11 conspirator Zacarias
Moussaoui in the criminal justice system rather than having him declared an
"enemy combatant" and tried before a military tribunal.

Since leaving the Justice Department, Chertoff has written and spoken publicly
about the need for "creative legal thinking" in Congress and the White House
about a new approach for handling suspected terrorists.

Staff writer Susan Schmidt and research editor Lucy Shackelford contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              169 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 13, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Fair Opportunity To Get a Head Start;
A Newly Formed Coalition Wants To Ensure That Preschool Isn't Foreign To
Immigrants

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Virginia Extra; T06

LENGTH: 1408 words


"Doggie, doggie, where's my bone? Somebody took it from my home."

"Do you have it, Andy?" asked a little girl sitting in the middle of a circle of
preschoolers at the main branch of the Child and Family Network Centers (CFNC)
in Alexandria.

Andy Lopez's face split into a wide grin as he threw his hands up to show they
were empty. The girl moved on, and Andy, 4, whispered with his neighbor, a
little boy who was inspecting Andy's Hulk sweat shirt.

Across the hall, 4-year-old Romeo Hernandez was learning how to share. Four
other boys waited expectantly as the teacher gently encouraged Romeo to hand
each one a cup for milk.

These may seem like small moments, but the boys' mothers, immigrants from El
Salvador, say they are amazed by what their sons come home with.

Andy's older brother, Carlos, now 10, did not attend preschool, and Romeo's
older sister, Odalys, now 8, attended a less comprehensive program. Their
mothers say that set them back when they started regular school.

"It was hard for him when he started kindergarten," said Aidanidia Merino, the
mother of Carlos and Andy. "He cried the first day. They put him in special
classes because it was hard for him and because he didn't know his colors or how
to count."

Merino did not keep her older son out of preschool for lack of money or access
-- CFNC has been around for 20 years, is free and is open to low-income
families, regardless of their immigration status; 70 percent of its students are
from immigrant families. The organization, which enrolls 172 children at seven
locations, has 74 on its waiting list.

But many immigrant parents don't know much about preschool and have never heard
of  recent studies showing that preschool attendance gives children an advantage
when they enter elementary school and throughout their lives.

An  initiative by a coalition of 16 Alexandria child-care organizations,
government agencies, private businesses and the city  public school system aims
to change that. Last month, the group initiated a proposal called Project Pre-K
and applied for a $500,000  grant from the Virginia Department of Social
Services  to help make preschool more accessible to high-risk and immigrant
children in Alexandria. The grant,  whose recipients  will be announced early
next month, would be disbursed over two years, and the recipients would have to
match it with donations from businesses and foundations.

One of the project's goals is to connect with parents who might not know about
preschool programs for low-income families. It also aims to educate parents on
why preschool is important in narrowing the achievement gap between their
children and children from middle-class and native English-speaking homes, many
of whom attend preschool as a matter of course.

Statistics show that 40 percent of children in Alexandria don't attend
preschool before starting kindergarten.

"When children enter kindergarten without some kind of preparation, without some
kind of exposure to English, without some kind of exposure to a group setting,
it's harder for them to compete with children who have been in preschool for
years," said Carol Farrell, director of the Office for Early Childhood
Development, one of the coalition members.

"The expectation is that children come to kindergarten prepared to do certain
things," Farrell said. Those include knowing how to speak English, hold a book,
sit and listen and work and share with other children.

Even if the children are in the care of reliable adults, child-care experts say,
babysitters and parents cannot teach all the social skills and cognitive
development a preschool offers.

Project Pre-K hasn't ironed out all the details on how it will reach immigrant
parents, but its proponents say the approach will be different from the usual
channels of communication, which allow some families to slip through the cracks.

"The traditional methods of sending notices home, that doesn't work," said Susan
Johnson, chairwoman of the Alexandria Early Childhood Commission, a joint
commission between the City Council and School Board. "The 'Gee, I read
everything that comes home in my child's backpack' method doesn't work here."

Rather than just "putting out paper" or expecting parents to attend
pre-announced information sessions, child-care providers have to take a much
more active role, she said. That means doing things such as sending a
coordinator to spread the word at churches, sporting events and other places
where immigrant communities gather. CFNC has offered office space for a
coordinator, and leaders in ethnic communities have said they will help get the
word out.

Still, tradition and fear can be obstacles. Some immigrant families worry that
signing up for public services such as food stamps or the state child-care
assistance program could harm their applications for permanent residency, said
Barbara Mason, executive director of the center. Although enrolling in CFNC, a
nonprofit organization, doesn't affect their status, she said, "they're
terrified of being sent back to their countries."

CFNC has been working with a coalition that includes the Arlington public school
system and the Arlington Housing Corporation to try to raise funds for two
similar centers in the county.

Some immigrants don't think of sending their young children to preschool because
they come from societies where grandparents and other relatives typically look
after the children.

"Most of them take [their children] to some aunts," said Bernadette
Kamara-Bangura, president of Sierra Leone Relief and Development Outreach Inc.,
a nonprofit group based in Alexandria. She says that option is risky because the
caregivers are rarely licensed and may not be qualified to care for children.

But Sophia Tesfamariam, an Eritrean-born mother of three who is active in the
Washington area Eritrean community, said she made a conscious decision not to
send her children to preschool, preferring to stay home with them herself as
women in her country have traditionally done.

"I tried day care with my daughter for a year, but the constant moving in and
out of the house, the lunch made by some other woman and then dinner being made
by mommy, it just created so much confusion for a young child," she said. For
immigrant children, the confusion can be heightened, especially if the teacher
doesn't speak their language, she said. "To me, with immigrant children, it's
difficult to expect them to acclimate that quickly."

Tesfamariam said her children learned their colors and numbers from her and had
no trouble adjusting to kindergarten. "For nurturing, calmness, confidence, for
my children it was better for them to be home," she said. Still, she said it is
important to get the word about preschool to immigrant families so they can
learn about their options.

Sometimes, pursuing those options can seem more daunting than simply staying
home with the children. After years of battling bureaucracies in their own
lives, some parents don't have faith that free or affordable preschool is easily
available. "Some of them, they'll just say, 'Oh, leave me, nothing ever comes
out, they promise us things but the result has not arrived yet,' "
Kamara-Bangura said.

They are slowly softening, however. After Kamara-Bangura brought JoAnn
Maldonado, who is the multicultural services initiative coordinator at the
Department of Human Services in Alexandria, to a Sierra Leonean church
congregation, she said: "They were very happy. Very, very, very happy."

Mason agreed that it can be daunting for immigrant families to navigate the
different options for free and low-income preschool. "What we've found is that
parents, by the time they've gone to all these places [in search of
information], they've lost their job," she said. To combat the problem, she has
proposed holding a fair several times a year where parents could be directed to
tables according to their needs and eligibility.

Perhaps the best method of getting the news out is word of mouth. Merino finally
heard about CFNC from her sister, who was registering her own son. And Nelci
Hernandez, Romeo's mother, has told her sister, who lives in McLean, about how
preschool has benefited Romeo.

"He speaks to me in English," she said. "He has learned the colors, he has
learned to draw. And now he writes his name -- that surprised me, too."

For more information on the Child and Family Network Centers and its programs,
call 703-836-0214.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              170 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 13, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Office Moves to County

SECTION: Fairfax Extra; T11

LENGTH: 104 words


U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services held a ceremony last Thursday to
celebrate the relocation of its Washington district office to Fairfax.

The office processes most immigration benefit applications, such as for legal
residence and naturalization, and enforces immigration law for Virginia and the
District. There are 33 district offices in the United States.

USCIS Director Eduardo Aguirre Jr.  and Phyllis Howard, director of the
Washington district office, presided at the ceremony.

The office, which replaces one in Arlington, is at 2675 Prosperity Ave., across
from the Dunn Loring station on Metro's Orange Line.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              171 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 20, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

D.C. Vendor Arrested in Marriage Fraud Network

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 532 words


FBI and Department of Homeland Security officers have arrested an Egyptian man
who allegedly ran a business from a hot dog cart on 17th and L streets NW that
provided American brides for Middle Eastern men seeking green cards, officials
said yesterday.

Aabid Shoeib, an illegal immigrant, was detained at his home Tuesday in the 1900
block of Ninth Street NW, Homeland Security officials said. According to a
criminal complaint, he is believed to have arranged at least 100 phony
marriages. Two others accused of involvement in the scheme, a U.S. citizen and a
legal resident originally from Egypt, also were arrested.

"These individuals are charged with operating a well-organized marriage fraud
network that allegedly helped 100 to 200 people obtain immigration status in
this country illegally. We view this type of fraud as a homeland security
vulnerability that can be exploited," said Dean Boyd, spokesman for Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, which is part of Homeland Security.

Agents have raided Shoeib's home in search of records of the alleged fraudulent
marriages.

The three charged in the case could not be contacted yesterday. The
investigation was handled by immigration and customs agents working with the FBI
on this area's Joint Terrorism Task Force. There was no evidence of a terrorist
connection, Boyd said.

The alleged scheme came to light after an Egyptian man, Mohmoud Ahmed, was
arrested in 2003 for staying beyond the limit of his tourist visa. As his
deportation proceedings began, he suddenly divorced his wife and married an
18-year-old American woman in Arlington.

Ahmed was charged with visa fraud and, in pleading guilty, agreed to cooperate
with U.S. authorities, according to the criminal complaint.

Ahmed told authorities that an Egyptian friend, Hassan Serag, advised him he
could avoid deportation by marrying a U.S. citizen, the complaint says. Serag
then took Ahmed to a man who ran a hot dog stand on 17th and L streets NW,
assuring him that the vendor could find a fake spouse, the complaint charges.
The vendor allegedly contacted an American friend, Teresa Dunn, who provided the
18-year-old spouse, the documents said. Ahmed said he paid more than $2,000 for
the service.

Dunn, who pleaded guilty to immigration fraud in October, told authorities she
was paid by Shoeib several times for finding U.S. brides for Middle Eastern men,
according to the court documents. She believed "Shoeib had arranged more than
100 to 200 marriages," the complaint said.

Ahmed and his U.S. bride told agents that another person, Joyce Snowden, was
involved in the scheme. She allegedly allowed the couple to use the address of
her home, on Somerset Place NW, on their immigration forms and prepared a phony
lease, the documents said. Serag, Snowden and Shoeib were charged in federal
court in the Eastern District of Virginia with conspiracy to commit marriage
fraud.

There was no answer last night at Shoeib's home, and Snowden's phone appeared to
be out of service. A woman who answered the phone at Serag's home said he was in
jail and did not have an attorney. The woman declined to be identified.

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              172 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 24, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Iraqi Immigrants Get More Time to Register to Vote

BYLINE: Ian Shapira, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 505 words


Iraqi immigrants, some of whom may have failed to register to vote in their
homeland's upcoming national election because of weather conditions or a recent
Muslim holiday, have been given two more days to do so.

Registration for the Jan. 30 Iraq elections, which was to have ended yesterday,
is extended until tomorrow night for polling places in all 14 countries outside
Iraq where Iraqis are allowed to vote, according to Jeremy Copeland, the U.S.
country chief of external relations for the International Organization for
Migration's Iraq Out-of-Country Program.

The registration and voting site for Iraqis living in the northeastern United
States is the New Carrollton Ramada Inn and Conference Center.

Organizers also extended the polling places' closing time to 7 p.m. today and
tomorrow to accommodate people who cannot leave work early.

After registration ends, Iraqi immigrants who want to vote must return to the
site from Jan. 28 to Jan. 30. Voter lists will be inspected for validity in the
period between registration and voting.

According to the most recent figures available, 1,511 people had registered at
the New Carrollton polling site by the end of Saturday, and 16,794 had
registered across the United States. The other U.S. voting centers are in
Nashville, Detroit, Chicago and Los Angeles. Organizers had estimated that as
many as 240,000 Iraqi-Americans might be eligible to vote, including as many as
20,000 in the northeastern United States.

"We wanted to make it possible for as many Iraqis as possible to take part in
this vote," Copeland said, explaining the registration deadline extension. "For
us in the United States, it was a good bonus," he added, because Saturday's
snowstorm likely forced many potential voters to stay home.

Copeland also noted that many Iraqis might have stayed away from registering
because they were observing the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Adha, which began
Thursday and ended Saturday.

Officials have reported no security problems, despite concerns aired this month
by Prince George's County Executive Jack B. Johnson (D) that security at the
hotel was "totally inadequate."

Michael Irish'Stephenson, an official with the International Organization for
Migration, said the number of people registering each day has been increasing.
Registration began Jan. 17.

To be eligible, U.S. residents must have been 18 or older by Dec. 31 and must
show evidence that they are Iraqi citizens or former citizens who acquired U.S.
citizenship or that their father was a native of Iraqi. "We had an older couple
in here from Miami, of all places," he said. "Some people have started singing
after registration. A couple of people have been clapping."

Najmaldin Karim, president of the Washington Kurdish Institute, said turnout
would have been higher had people been allowed to vote when they registered.
"Something may happen, or someone could talk them out of voting or there could
be personal matters" that could prevent them from returning to the Washington
area to vote, Karim said.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              173 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 7, 2005 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Some Would-Be Citizens Languish For Years in Security-Check Limbo

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1387 words


Rafed al Janabi, an Iraqi refugee living in Gaithersburg, was so grateful for
the overthrow of Saddam Hussein that he quit his restaurant job and joined the
U.S. Army. He was sent last year to Iraq to translate for a Special Forces unit.

But he soon ran into an obstacle. Janabi lacked a clearance for classified work,
something available only to U.S. citizens. To qualify for citizenship, he simply
needs to pass a routine security check -- but it has dragged on for nearly two
years.

"I don't see any point. I'm holding a gun in my hand, defending this country.
And I can't be a citizen?" asked Janabi, who said he was excluded from many
Special Forces missions because of his lack of a clearance.

Janabi is one of a small but growing number of people facing extreme delays in
becoming citizens or permanent residents, according to immigrant advocates.
People from Arab and Muslim countries appear to be especially affected, many
said.

It is occurring even as the overall backlog for immigration documents is
shrinking. On average, it takes eight months to be naturalized, down from 14
months in October 2003, according to an immigration spokesman. But those whose
names trigger a "hit" in the security check can be stuck in limbo for years.

Authorities say they have no alternative but to fully investigate when an
applicant's name resembles one in the government's security databases. They note
that they have been heavily criticized in the past when terrorists slipped
through the system and gained immigration benefits.

"We will not compromise national security in the name of speeding someone
through the application process," said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

Immigrant advocates agree that dangerous people should not obtain citizenship.
But they say many longtime U.S. residents with no ties to terrorism are being
caught up in a poorly operating system.

"They're people who have nothing in their background that would require
additional time. I do believe it's a glitch," said Dawn M. Lurie, an immigration
lawyer in the Washington area.

Janabi said he is a case in point. He was brought to this country by the U.S.
government as a refugee in 1995, after he fled Iraq. He is married to a Marine.
When Janabi heard in 2003 that the Army was recruiting Arabic speakers as
interpreters, he decided to volunteer, along with Iraqi friend Kadhim al Kanani,
35, of Centreville.

"We said: 'Sure. America helped us liberate our country. It's time to show
appreciation,' " said Janabi, 34, who like Kanani is a private first class.

Typically, immigrants can file for citizenship after living for five years in
the United States as legal permanent residents. Most eligible applicants become
U.S. citizens within a few months of successfully completing an English-language
and civics test. Janabi passed his citizenship exam in March 2003, and Kanani in
October 2003, the men said.

But when they shipped out to Iraq in October 2004, their naturalization was
still on hold because of the background checks. The men were puzzled, because
they had passed an FBI security check to join the military.

They soon realized how frustrating it can be to lack citizenship. Janabi and
Kanani said they could not join many Special Forces missions because they did
not have security clearances. (A Special Forces spokesman, Maj. Rob Gowan,
confirmed the men's service but declined further comment.) While citizenship is
only one step in getting a clearance, the men were stung that they could not
even begin the process.

"I will be helping more, and can do a better job, when I have this clearance.
We're in the U.S. Army. We're fighting for this country," said Janabi, who said
he faced gunfire and rocket attacks in Iraq.

"I don't understand what's a name check. How can it take two years?" he said.

Immigration authorities insist that they are not singling out any nationality
for extra scrutiny. But they note that people with common names -- like many
from the Middle East -- are more likely to get a match in the databases of
records from dozens of federal agencies.

Authorities also check variations of applicants' names, especially those
transliterated from non-Roman alphabets, which further raise the chances of a
hit. Someone with a long Arab name could be entered in dozens of ways. Bill
Yates, a top official at the citizenship service, said an investigation after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks showed why such checks were necessary:
Officials found 255 versions of the hijackers' names and birth dates in identity
and immigration records, he said.

"Since the 9/11 attacks, we started to go through the records and say: 'This was
our experience with the 19 [hijackers]. We've got to do more,' " he said.

When there is a hit, the investigation can last months or years, with FBI agents
at times having to manually dig through files across the country. Officials said
intelligence information is sometimes so fragmentary that it is hard to
determine whether it involves the same person. But they do not want to risk
making the wrong judgment.

Only about 5 percent of name checks take longer than a few days, officials said.
But they involve thousands of people. In the Arlington immigration office, which
handles D.C. and Virginia residents, 420 would-be citizens are awaiting the
results of security checks, said Bentley, the spokesman. In the Baltimore
office, 780 are  waiting, he said.

Some cases are slowed by yet another measure. In late 2002, immigration
authorities decided to rerun about 2.6 million applications through the FBI
security databases because the initial checks had not been thorough enough,
Yates said. Thousands of immigrants seeking citizenship and other benefits await
their second check.

Some immigrant advocates said U.S. authorities appear to be scrutinizing
applicants so closely that they get meaningless hits.

"The system is a fiasco. It is antiquated. It involves hand searches that are
like looking for a needle in a haystack," said Peter A. Schey, president of the
Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles.

According to immigration law, would-be citizens are supposed to get an answer on
their applications within 120 days of passing their exam, lawyers said. At least
four lawsuits have been filed in the past year asking federal courts to
intercede for people who have waited longer, many of them from Muslim and Arab
countries.

"If there were some serious evidence against someone . . . let's put them in
deportation proceedings," said Robert Gibbs, a Seattle lawyer involved in two of
the cases, which are pending.

But in many cases, he said, "nothing happens. Which suggests [officials] don't
have anything negative. They can't find enough to give them a comfort level that
this guy's not going to do something wrong."

In one example of the system's arbitrariness, he said, he discovered that one of
his clients, an Indian software specialist, had been flagged with a "Code T,"
for terrorist, in a security database. It turned out that a customs official had
simply entered that designation because terrorist groups have operated in India,
Gibbs said.

However, one of the other lawsuits filed by applicants illustrates the
government's concerns. In that case, brought in Boston by a Libyan, federal
prosecutors said the man was being investigated because of his ties to a group
associated with Osama bin Laden.

Immigrant advocates say, however, that many people caught up in the delays
clearly have no relation to terrorism. For them, the wait can be frustrating and
costly.

"You know how many opportunities I lost to work as a translator?" asked Fatin
Hannaney, 48, an Iraqi who lives in Fairfax County. She applied for citizenship
in 2001 and has encountered the security-check delays. She said she wanted to
work for the FBI but had to be a citizen.

Janabi and Kanani appear to be particularly unlucky. The U.S. military typically
offers an expedited path to citizenship. But the Iraqis said they were told that
the Army could not help them because their applications were in the system when
they joined.

"I sacrifice myself and my family to fight for this country," Janabi said. "But
now I feel really down."

Staff researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2005



CORRECTION:  A Feb. 7 Metro article reported that Rafed al Janabi, an Iraqi
immigrant and U.S. soldier, had been waiting for nearly two years for a security
check to be completed to become a U.S. citizen. After the article was published,
a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said Janabi's initial
application for citizenship, filed in September 2002, was rejected in April 2004
because he had not disclosed past criminal charges. Court documents show that a
criminal case against Janabi was dismissed in 2002 and later expunged from his
record. After his citizenship application was rejected, Janabi immediately
reapplied and is awaiting the results of a new security check, the agency
spokesman said. Officials at the agency did not mention these facts when they
were asked about Janabi's case before the article's publication.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              174 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 7, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Iranian Brothers Reject U.S. Terms for Release

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A22

LENGTH: 225 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Four Iranian brothers who have been detained for more than three years have
rejected the federal government's release terms, calling some of the conditions
unjust and unconstitutional.

The Mirmehdi brothers -- Mohammed, Mostafa, Mohsen and Mojtaba -- have been in
custody since October 2001.

They were charged with lying on applications for political asylum after an
earlier FBI investigation of a Los Angeles-based cell of Mujaheddin-e Khalq,
which opposes Iran's government. An immigration appeals board has ruled that the
brothers did not have ties to terrorism, but upheld their deportations.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit has ruled that Mohsen and Mohammed
Mirmehdi can stay in the United States and pursue an appeal they filed when the
government denied their asylum applications. But the court said Mojtaba and
Mostafa Mirmehdi can be deported if a third country will accept them, because
they did not appeal the government's refusal to grant them asylum.

The government, faced with a Feb. 20 deadline to free the brothers or legally
justify continued detention, offered them conditional release. The brothers
declined the offer last week.

The government has refused to compromise. "We are not going to release them
until they sign the form," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              175 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 13, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record Here's how som ...

SECTION: Southern Maryland Extra; T07

LENGTH: 799 words


Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Syndicate. NV
means Not Voting.

For: 261 / Against: 161

The House passed a bill (HR 418) that would expand federal authority over
driver's licenses, tighten rules for immigrants seeking asylum in the United
States and override without court review federal, state and local laws that
impede the construction of U.S. border fences. The bill awaits Senate action.

The bill would compel states to issue driver's licenses only to legal aliens,
giving motor vehicle departments new duties as enforcers of federal immigration
law. Last year, the Sept. 11 commission recommended, and Congress enacted, a
federal requirement that driver's licenses contain machine-readable digital
photos.

In addition to asylum and border provisions (issues below), the bill would
authorize bail bond agents to round up illegal aliens who have been ordered
deported but remain at large.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Bartlett (R)

{hbox}

{hbox}

*

Cardin (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Cummings (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Gilchrest (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Hoyer (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Ruppersberger (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Van Hollen (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Wynn (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

VIRGINIA

Y

N

NV

Cantor (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

J. Davis (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

T. Davis (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Moran (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Wolf (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

For: 179 / Against: 243

The House refused to strip HR 418 (above) of authority for the secretary of
homeland security to override any federal, state or local laws that he or she
deems to be an obstacle to the construction of security barriers or roads along
U.S. borders with Mexico and Canada. Courts could not review the waivers. The
provision was drafted to secure completion of a 14-mile border wall in the San
Diego area.

A yes vote was to block the new authority.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Bartlett (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Cardin (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Cummings (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Gilchrest (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Hoyer (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Ruppersberger (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Van Hollen (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Wynn (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

VIRGINIA

Y

N

NV

Cantor (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

J. Davis (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

T. Davis (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Moran (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Wolf (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

For: 185 / Against: 236

The House refused to strip HR 418 (above) of provisions making it more difficult
for immigrants to obtain asylum in the United States. The rules require asylum
seekers to provide any available corroborating evidence of claims that they
would be persecuted if forced to return home. The provisions also allow the
judging of applicants on the basis of their demeanor and the consistency of
their statements to immigration officials.

A yes vote opposed the bill's asylum section.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Bartlett (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Cardin (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Cummings (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Gilchrest (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Hoyer (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Ruppersberger (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Van Hollen (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Wynn (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

VIRGINIA

Y

N

NV

Cantor (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

J. Davis (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

T. Davis (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Moran (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Wolf (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

For: 72 / Against: 26

The Senate passed a bill (S 5) that would shift most large class-action suits
from state courts, where juries tend to favor plaintiffs, to federal courts,
where corporate defendants improve their chances of winning. The bill is backed
by the National Association of Manufacturers and U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
opposed by the American Trial Lawyers Association and the Consumer Federation of
America.

At present, class actions are assigned to federal court only in the rare
instances in which all the plaintiffs are from different states than all the
defendants. Under the bill, federal courts would receive claims exceeding $5
million when the primary defendant and less than one-third of the plaintiffs are
from the same state.

Supporters said the bill would keep plaintiffs' lawyers from directing suits of
dubious merit to friendly state jurisdictions. Opponents said it would be more
difficult for injured or defrauded consumers to gain redress from corporations.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Mikulski (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Sarbanes (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

VIRGINIA

Yes

No

NV

Allen (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Warner (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

For: 40 / Against: 59

The Senate rejected an amendment to exempt civil rights and wage-and-hour
litigation from S 5 (above).

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Mikulski (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Sarbanes (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

VIRGINIA

Y

N

NV

Allen (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Warner (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              176 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 16, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

In Va., Poised to Slight Immigrants

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 337 words


The Virginia General Assembly's docket this session is jammed with
anti-immigrant legislation. Pending are bills that  would:

*  Make Virginia the only state to deny children of undocumented immigrants  the
opportunity to attend state community and four-year colleges -- even at
out-of-state rates.

*  Require citizens and noncitizens  to prove that they are lawfully present in
the United States before receiving Medicaid or social services benefits.

*  Deny workers' compensation benefits to anyone who is not   in the country
legally at the time of a workplace injury or death.

How do we teach our children about opportunity when lifelong friends are denied
the right to go to college even if qualified?

How do we deny gangs fertile recruiting grounds when youngsters are told that
they cannot seek technical training to get a decent job?

What do we say to friends and family when they are subjected to discriminatory
treatment at the Department of Motor Vehicles or when they seek Medicaid for a
parent or relative who is entering a nursing home?

How do we say that we are humane when an immigrant working on a highway or farm
is killed on the job but isn't  entitled to even the $1,000 workers'
compensation transportation benefit that could help send his body home?

The Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission of the Virginia legislature
recently completed a study on the state's foreign-born population. It found that
44 percent of the state's job growth in  the 1990s was due to immigrant workers,
that foreign-born Virginians make significant contributions to the economy and
pay taxes, and that foreign-born Virginians do not draw disproportionately on
public benefits, except for health care.

Perhaps it is not too late for  lawmakers to reevaluate these issues and rely on
facts, not fear, to reach  decisions.

J. WALTER TEJADA

Arlington

The writer, a Democratic member of the Arlington County Board, is the founding
chairman and a member of the Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              177 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 17, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

For the Record Here's how so ...

SECTION: Prince George's Extra; T24

LENGTH: 765 words


Here's how some major bills fared recently in Congress, and how local
congressional members voted, as provided by Thomas's Roll Call Syndicate. NV
means Not Voting.

For: 261 / Against: 161

The House passed a bill (HR 418) that would expand federal authority over
driver's licenses, tighten rules for immigrants seeking asylum in the United
States, and override without court review federal, state and local laws that
impede the construction of U.S. border fences. The bill awaits Senate action.

The bill would compel states to issue driver's licenses only to legal aliens,
giving motor vehicle departments new duties as enforcers of federal immigration
law. Last year, the Sept. 11 commission recommended, and Congress enacted, a
federal requirement that driver's licenses contain machine-readable digital
photos.

In addition to asylum and border provisions (issues below), the bill would
authorize bail bond agents to round up illegal aliens who have been ordered
deported but remain at large.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Bartlett (R)

{hbox}

{hbox}

*

Cardin (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Cummings (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Gilchrest (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Hoyer (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Ruppersberger (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Van Hollen (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Wynn (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

For: 179 / Against: 243

The House refused to strip HR 418 (above) of authority for the secretary of
homeland security to override any federal, state or local laws that he or she
deems to be an obstacle to the construction of security barriers or roads along
U.S. borders with Mexico and Canada. Courts could not review the waivers. The
provision was drafted to secure completion of a 14-mile border wall in the San
Diego area.

A yes vote was to block the new authority.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Bartlett (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Cardin (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Cummings (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Gilchrest (R)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Hoyer (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Ruppersberger (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Van Hollen (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Wynn (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

For: 185 / Against: 236

The House refused to strip HR 418 (above) of provisions making it more difficult
for immigrants to obtain asylum in the United States. The rules require asylum
seekers to provide any available corroborating evidence of claims that they
would be persecuted if forced to return home. The provisions also allow the
judging of applicants on the basis of their demeanor and the consistency of
their statements to immigration officials.

A yes vote opposed the bill's asylum section.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Bartlett (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Cardin (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Cummings (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Gilchrest (R)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Hoyer (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Ruppersberger (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Van Hollen (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Wynn (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

For: 72 / Against: 26

The Senate passed a bill (S 5) that would shift most large class-action suits
from state courts, where juries tend to favor plaintiffs, to federal courts,
where corporate defendants improve their chances of winning. The bill is backed
by the National Association of Manufacturers and U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
opposed by the American Trial Lawyers Association and the Consumer Federation of
America.

At present, class actions are assigned to federal court only in the rare
instances in which all the plaintiffs are from different states than all the
defendants. Under the bill, federal courts would receive claims exceeding $5
million when the primary defendant and less than one-third of the plaintiffs are
from the same state.

Supporters said the bill would keep plaintiffs' lawyers from directing suits of
dubious merit to friendly state jurisdictions. Opponents said it would be more
difficult for injured or defrauded consumers to gain redress from corporations.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Mikulski (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Sarbanes (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

For: 40 / Against: 59

The Senate rejected an amendment to exempt civil rights and wage-and-hour
litigation from S 5 (above).

A yes vote backed the amendment.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Mikulski (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

Sarbanes (D)

*

{hbox}

{hbox}

For: 60 / Against: 39

The Senate voted to include class actions brought by state attorneys general in
S 5 (above). However, the bill exempts class actions brought by state attorneys
or private lawyers that involve strictly local or state disputes.

A yes vote was to include state class actions in the bill.

MARYLAND

Y

N

NV

Mikulski (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

Sarbanes (D)

{hbox}

*

{hbox}

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              178 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 17, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New Latino Communities Pop Up;
Clusters Arise in Historically Black Areas East of Anacostia and in Northeast

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T08

LENGTH: 1319 words


The apartment was cheap -- just $700 a month for two bedrooms. And it seemed so
spacious to Margarita Velasquez, a Mexican immigrant whose family of four had
been jammed into a $900-a-month efficiency in Mount Pleasant.

True, the new place lacked a few things. A floor, for instance. But Velasquez
and her relatives knew construction. They set about laying tile and carpeting in
the decrepit ground-floor apartment and painted the walls a bright turquoise.

And so the family joined one of Washington's most unusual migrations: Latinos
moving east of the Anacostia River.

Velasquez's new neighborhood, near Fort Dupont Park in Ward 7, is one of several
new Latino communities that have popped up in unexpected areas around the city,
as rising rents drive residents from the traditional immigrant enclaves in Mount
Pleasant, Adams Morgan and Columbia Heights.

Gustavo Velasquez, director of the mayor's Office on Latino Affairs, said most
Spanish-speaking immigrants still are clustered in Wards 1 and 4. But his office
has recently been in contact with new Latino communities, such as the one east
of Fort Dupont Park, and another in the Brookland area, in Ward 5. Latinos make
up about 8 percent of the District's population, according to the 2000 Census.

"We certainly are moving into a more geographically diverse community, when it
comes to people who speak Spanish," he said.

The migration is changing the flavor of some neighborhoods, with predominantly
African American schools getting English as a Second Language teachers, and
stores beginning to offer tortillas and cans of jalapeños. The change is also
presenting some challenges, since many services for low-income Latinos are based
in the Columbia Heights area.

"There are no programs or official initiatives oriented to the Latino
population," said David Marquez, a Bolivian religious leader in the Fort Dupont
Park area. "The Latino community is trying to develop a voice."

More than 300 Latinos live in Ward 7, according to Norberto Martinez, community
outreach worker for the mayor's Office on Latino Affairs. Many, including
Margarita Velasquez, are clustered in two apartment buildings in the 4400 block
of Texas Avenue SE, in the midst of a working-class neighborhood of brick homes
and low-rise apartment buildings near Fort Dupont Park. Residents say the
migration began years ago, when the owner of the apartment buildings married a
Latino woman.

"The main attraction here is price. You can get a one-bedroom apartment for
$500. And a two-bedroom for $700," said Marquez, 50, who also lives in the
apartments.

In the last few years, the Latino community has grown big enough to leave a mark
on the neighborhood. At the nearby Plummer Elementary School, 17 of 327 students
are Spanish-speaking, according to the principal, Otassa Boston. The school now
has a part-time English as a Second Language teacher.

At Jones Deli, about a block from the apartments, owner Cho Myung said dozens of
Latino immigrants send money each week through his Western Union service. The
Korean immigrant has started to stock Hispanic foods in his cramped store.

"Every time, people and people come in," Myung said in broken English, referring
to his new clientele. "They buy eggs, tortillas, black beans. And they buy hot
pepper. I got Spanish drink, too," he said, pointing to a refrigerator where
cans of mango juice were lined up alongside soda and frozen dinners.

The newest sign of the growing population is a Latino youth center that Marquez
is setting up at Greater Deliverance Christian Center Church in Christ, a large
church with a predominantly black congregation across the street from the
apartments. There, Marquez is planning to offer language programs and a computer
lab.

"The kids are forgetting how to speak Spanish. The parents don't speak English.
That's our difficulty," Marquez said as he showed a visitor around the freshly
painted yellow room, where rows of chairs had been set up before a lectern.

Marquez also wants to organize activities to keep young people from getting into
trouble. Already, a large black MS -- for Mara Salvatrucha, a Latino gang -- has
appeared on the side of one apartment building. Residents said the initials were
spray-painted by a young man from another neighborhood who was dating a girl in
the apartments.

Both Latino newcomers and longtime black residents say interaction between the
two groups has been limited, because many of the Latinos don't speak English.
But there have been notable signs of goodwill.

For example, Bishop John Little and his wife, ViCurtis, a pastor, have handed
out fliers in the apartments inviting the immigrants to join their services at
Greater Deliverance Christian Center. At Thanksgiving, they hosted a dinner for
about 30 Latinos. They have allowed Marquez, whom they are training as a
minister, to use the room at their church rent-free.

ViCurtis Little said she sees the neighborhood's changing character as a natural
result of the increasing immigration in the region.

"We see it all over, even in the neighborhood where we live in Maryland," she
said.

There is still some mutual distrust. Some Latinos say they are afraid of local
black youths, associating them with the high crime in the area. And Marquez said
he has heard some neighbors refer to an "invasion" of Latinos. But on the whole,
the groups have coexisted peacefully.

"I think they're very nice people," said Janie Greenhow, 62, a retired waitress
who has lived across the street from the apartments for 27 years. "Every once in
a while, they play their music too loud. But the blacks do the same thing."

Margarita Velasquez, the Mexican immigrant who moved to this country three years
ago, said she was initially wary when a friend invited her to stay at the
apartments on Texas Avenue SE. She had heard there were gunfights in the area,
and she didn't want to leave her Catholic Church and other Spanish-speaking
institutions.

"At first, we weren't going to come," said Velasquez, 37, cradling her newborn
daughter as she and her two sons watched a Mexican "telenovela" in their
apartment one recent afternoon. "But we needed to." The rents in Mount Pleasant
were getting too high.

The transition hasn't always been easy. Her sons, 13-year-old David and
12-year-old Luis, spoke limited English when they enrolled at nearby Sousa
Middle School about a year ago. They were such a novelty that black students
gathered around and touched their shiny, straight hair.

"They say we have hair like a baby's," said Luis.

But the D.C. public school system sent an English as a Second Language teacher
to the school several days a week to help the boys, and they now have friends at
school.

Meanwhile, Velasquez got a job at a nearby McDonald's owned by a Mexican
immigrant, she said. There, Latino and African American employees communicate
with the help of makeshift sign language, she said. Her Guatemalan-born husband,
Manuel Antonio, has gotten steady work as a landscaper.

The couple has done so well that they recently bought their sons bicycles for
Christmas.

"What we like, above all, is that there are other Hispanics here. With the
language, we can fit in better," said Velasquez. In fact, she said, five of her
husband's cousins and one of his uncles live in the apartment complex.

Velasquez still returns to a bilingual clinic in Northwest for medical services.
And some of her neighbors continue to send their children to schools with bigger
bilingual programs in Northwest. Some immigrants have left the Texas Avenue
apartments after deciding there was too much crime or too few services.

But gradually, a Latino community is putting down roots. A few people have even
bought houses in the area.

"There are many houses and apartments that are empty. A lot of whites don't want
to live here, and some blacks are moving out," said Marquez. "This is an
opportunity."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              179 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New York Officials Reassure IOC;
Bid Leaders Allay Concerns Over Immigration Policy, Financing and Venues

BYLINE: Amy Shipley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Sports; D05

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK Feb. 23


-- A day after an exhaustive venue tour, the International Olympic Committee
evaluation team that is reviewing bids for the 2012 Summer Games spent Wednesday
morning behind closed doors with New York's most powerful political leaders and
used the opportunity to raise concerns about the city's bid and America's
support of it.

Gov. George Pataki and Mayor Michael Bloomberg said after the one-hour meeting
that the 13-member IOC evaluation team peppered them and other officials with
questions about U.S. immigration policy, the city's and state's financial
commitment to the Games and the controversy surrounding the West Side Rail Yard
land projected to be the site of a new Olympic stadium.

"They did have concerns, as they must," Pataki said. "The Olympics are a major
event."

IOC evaluation team members also wanted reassurance that Olympic security
matters would receive the highest priority and that New Yorkers supported having
the Games here, Pataki said.

"They have to go through this process," Pataki said. "I think the answers they
have been getting are appropriate."

The IOC evaluation team, which includes IOC members as well as organization
outsiders, has been sequestered from the media since its arrival Sunday and has
refused to take reporters' questions. Representatives from the group have
scheduled a news conference for the conclusion of the visit Thursday. Since
their arrival, they have toured venues for 19 sports and met with dozens of
local, state and federal officials along with business and union leaders and
athletes. Wednesday evening, they attended a jazz performance at Lincoln Center
and had dinner at Bloomberg's residence.

In July, the 100-plus members of the IOC will select the site of the 2012 Games
from among New York, Paris, London, Madrid and Moscow. As a result of the
reforms that followed the Salt Lake City Olympic bid scandal of 1999, IOC rules
now prohibit members from visiting the bidding cities, so many rely on the
impressions and grades of the evaluation team.

New York bid leaders and government officials said they told the IOC evaluators
that athletes, officials and Olympic visitors would be admitted to the United
States without problems for the 2012 Games. They said government leaders were
committed to putting on a fiscally sound and athlete-centered Olympics, and they
expressed optimism that work on the planned Olympic stadium -- projected to be
built on land currently for sale in an open bidding process -- likely would
begin before the July 6 IOC vote, despite recent problems obtaining the land.

Though President Bush, who is touring Europe, has not had a direct role in this
week's visit, he spoke to the IOC evaluation team through a video shown to the
group today, expressing the federal government's support for the bid, several
officials said.

New York developer Roland Betts, a Yale friend of Bush who was recently
appointed by Bush to the NYC 2012 board, participated in the morning session and
assured IOC team members that an Olympics in New York in 2012 would be
designated a National Special Security Event -- as were the Salt Lake Games in
2002 -- ensuring the highest level of federal attention. Later, New York City
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said New York's police force of 31,000 would
ensure a safe and secure Olympics with the least interruption possible to the
daily lives of New York residents.

"We had on virtually every topic extremely strong statements of support from
every level of government," said bid leader Dan Doctoroff, also deputy mayor of
economic development.

Meantime, in comments at a luncheon at the United Nations -- the IOC team was
not in attendance -- U.S. ambassador Richard Holbrooke offered assurances of his
own that New York would put on a safe and smooth Olympic Games. While
acknowledging that some visitors had been "unnecessarily detained" since the
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, he said such problems would be ironed out by the time
of the Olympics.

He further said that any image problems the Bush administration has around the
world and particularly in Europe should not affect New York's chances of winning
the Games.

"New York, while an American city and proudly an American city, is also the most
international city in the world," Holbrooke said. "I don't see any reason in the
world for political factors to play in this decision."

Said Betts, during a separate news conference: "I think the president is getting
more popular in Europe by the hour."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              180 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A Lesson In Foreign Exchange;
An Immigrant and a Local Teacher Help Start a School in Uganda

BYLINE: Tara Bahrampour, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Alexandria - Arlington Extra; T12

LENGTH: 1246 words


Here's a reality show idea that would make "Wife Swap" and "Trading Spaces" look
like tame "Gilligan's Island" reruns: A native of a remote Ugandan village moves
to Virginia and enrolls his children in an Arlington school, while a veteran
Arlington teacher moves to the Ugandan man's village to teach there.

This is not actually a reality show,  but the characters are in many ways
inhabiting each other's starkly contrasting worlds.

The Ugandan man, John Wanda, moved to Arlington nine years ago after his wife
won a visa in a U.S. State Department lottery. Finding work as a bookkeeper for
the American Chiropractic Association, Wanda worked his way up to become vice
president of finance and administration. His three children began school at
Arlington Traditional School, and Wanda marveled at the opportunities the
lottery had wrought -- instead of sitting on a dirt floor with 75 other
children, repeating lessons by rote, his children had school buses, computer
classes and teachers who paid attention to each individual child.

Meanwhile, back in his native village of Bumwalukani, "the schools that we went
to are poor and getting poorer," he said. "Hundreds of children drop out of
school because they don't have money to pay for their school fees. Some of the
brightest children in the village, their parents don't see the point of keeping
them there, so they just take them out."

Only a few of the children who have attended the four local government-run
elementary schools have ever gone on to high school, Wanda said.

In 1999, Wanda began raising money in Arlington to pay for scholarships for some
of the children in Bumwalukani, which is less a village than a loose collection
of mud-walled homesteads in the shadow of the 14,000-foot  Mount Elgon, where
peasants grow plantains and corn and children study by candlelight.

The fund, administered by the Bethel United Church of Christ, which Wanda and
his wife attend, grew each year, reaching $81,000 last year. By 2003, Wanda said
he realized that what the children really needed was a school that could offer
some of the benefits -- books, desks, electricity and qualified teachers who
show up on time -- that his own children were receiving in the United States.

So last year he opened the Arlington Academy of Hope, a $60,000 U-shaped
building in Bumwalukani that enrolls 200 children between the ages of 5 and 15.
The school brought in trained teachers from Kampala, Uganda's capital, 155 miles
away, and pays them $200 a month, far more than government schools pay. Classes
are limited to 40 children -- low for Uganda -- and students receive uniforms
and a hot lunch. Instruction is in English, as it is in most Ugandan schools.

Back in Virginia, 56-year-old Cynthia Margeson was ready to retire. Having
taught in Arlington public schools for 32 years, the last 25 at Arlington
Traditional School, she was interested in traveling but didn't want to walk away
from teaching altogether. Last summer, she accompanied Wanda to the Ugandan
school's opening ceremony and spent three weeks observing the new school.

Margeson saw some things she didn't like. The method of instruction was still
largely what she calls "talk and chalk" -- children repeating things and writing
them on the chalkboard. "Most of them have no idea what they're writing," she
said.

She suggested to the headmaster that the children break up into smaller groups
in which they could receive more individual attention, and she provided
instructional materials to help. And then it was time to go home -- or so she
thought.

"When I was leaving on the last day of July, the children were asking, 'Are you
coming back, are you coming back?' " Margeson said. "And I just had to say yes."

And so in January she returned, ostensibly to teach there. When she arrived,
however, the headmaster had just resigned, so she took over as acting headmaster
-- a job she says involves as much instruction for teachers as for students.
Most classes are three years behind their U.S. counterparts. For the children,
any book at all is a treat.

In August, Arlington Traditional School sent 500 books to the school, and during
breaks between classes, the children pounce on them.

"That's my most memorable vision -- the children sitting all over the sidewalks,
reading these books," Margeson said, speaking via mobile phone from the village.
Recalling a sixth-grader reading aloud from a book called "Martin's Big Words,"
about the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., she said, "None of them had had any
picture books to look at, so their vision had been very limited."

For Margeson, who has two grown daughters, including one who teaches at
Arlington's Taylor Elementary School, Uganda "sort of dropped in my lap like a
gift-wrapped package." When she flew back there last month, her bags were packed
to the maximum weight allowance with books and other supplies donated by parents
and teachers.

Arlington Traditional School students also got into the act, putting together
photos of their school cafeteria, gym and computer lab, and writing personal
letters to the Ugandan students.

"The photos are a big hit," Margeson said. "They say, 'Oh, show us the pictures
of Arlington, show us the pictures of Arlington.' "

The Ugandan children made their own care package -- handcrafted toys, a soccer
ball made of plastic bags and banana fibers, and a little doll -- to send to
Virginia.

Margeson, too,  is seeing plenty that she had never seen before. In the morning,
as she and the other teachers walk through the lush bamboo forest toward the
school, she sees children running five or six kilometers, often without having
eaten breakfast, to get there by 7:30.

"If they see us walking, they'll take our bags for us, but then they'll keep
running," she said.

Last week, the big event at the school was the introduction of a generator to
supply electricity. "You just can't imagine the excitement when they turned on
some lights in the classroom," Margeson said. "They sang, they were clapping,
they asked, 'Where does it come from?' "

A new headmaster from Kampala will start in March, when another retired
Arlington teacher also will arrive; Margeson plans to stay until May. Nine
contributors from Arlington also plan to visit the school in June (the Ugandan
school year runs from February to November) and will visit government schools as
well to assess their needs.

The Arlington Academy of Hope has not solved all the problems of Bumwalukani's
children. It costs $135 a year to attend, a fortune in a place where the average
annual income is $150. Most students get scholarships, but some parents pay in
corn, beans and tomatoes, which are used in the school lunches. The academy
enrolls only a fraction of the area's 3,000 children; government schools take up
the slack. But the government schools are also benefiting as  the academy passes
on extra books and teaching materials to them.

Still, in a place where most buildings are constructed from sticks and mud, the
sturdy brick academy is the Rolls-Royce of schools. Its main outer wall displays
the names of the school's original donors and a map of the world.

"The children have no sense of where they are in the world, or even that there
is a world out there," Margeson said. The map, which is almost finished, will
show the Arlington Academy of Hope nestled in the center of Africa. It will also
have a little star to mark the spot where Arlington County lies.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              181 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 25, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Salvadorans Near Deadline On Permits

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 345 words


El Salvador's ambassador appealed yesterday to immigrants with special temporary
work permits to renew them before a March 8 deadline, saying tens of thousands
of Salvadorans still had not done so.

Rene Leon, the ambassador, said in a telephone news conference that as many as
240,000 immigrants could benefit from a recently announced 18-month extension to
the Temporary Protected Status program for Salvadorans. The U.S. government
program grants residence and work permits to Salvadorans who were in this
country when a pair of earthquakes devastated their homeland in 2001 and made it
difficult for them to return.

The benefit has been important to El Salvador, which received about $1 billion
last year from immigrants with the permits -- roughly 40 percent of the nation's
remittances.

Leon said U.S. immigration officials told him that they had received 172,000
applications for the re-registration and expected to hit 200,000 by month's end.
He said Salvadoran officials were keeping their U.S. consulates open every day
to help immigrants fill out their forms.

"You have until the eighth of March. Don't put off your renewal," Leon urged in
his message to immigrants.

The Salvadoran government has launched a broad campaign with groups that assist
immigrants to spread the word about the impending deadline and help people fill
out renewal forms. The country's president, Tony Saca, kicked off the campaign
in early January at an event at a Silver Spring church and will appear this
weekend in Long Island, N.Y., to promote the immigration benefit, known as TPS.

"This is going at a good rhythm," Leon said. However, he added, authorities were
intensifying their efforts to reach those who hadn't yet re-registered.

Leon said he didn't know how many people locally had applied for the extension.
Salvadorans are the largest immigrant group in the Washington area, with nearly
105,000 counted in the 2000 Census. The embassy believes the figure is now far
higher.

The extension is the third granted since the program was opened to Salvadorans
in March 2001.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              182 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 27, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrants Get Harsh Reception In Chile

BYLINE: Katie Burford, Reuters

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile


When 30-year-old Jose Bermudez abandoned Lima for the promise of a job in Chile,
he was among the last in his family to leave Peru.

"The work situation in Peru is difficult. If there's work, they pay you very
little," said Bermudez, who works in a packaging factory here in the Chilean
capital.

Chile, an oasis of political and economic stability in the region, has become a
magnet for illegal migrants from its less fortunate neighbors, but many of those
who come find themselves subject to prejudice or racism.

Many Chileans scoff at the Peruvian day laborers who gather in the capital's
central square, the historic Plaza de Armas, and cases of mistreatment based on
race or ethnicity are reported regularly in the news media.

The indigenous population in Chile is small compared with that Peru and Bolivia,
and many indigenous immigrants, like their Chilean counterparts, face
discrimination based on their darker skin or Indian features.

One jarring recent example involved a 15-year-old black Ecuadoran girl living in
the northern city of Antofagasta who tried to run away from home and return to
Ecuador without a passport.

When picked up by authorities, she told them she had fled to escape her
classmates who teased her mercilessly, calling her "ugly black girl" and "coal
face."

Immigrant groups, meanwhile, have grown more outspoken and recently called for a
general amnesty that would entitle illegal immigrant workers to greater
protections.

As Latin American countries go, Chile, a 2,600-mile-long strip of land
sandwiched between the Andes mountains and the Pacific, was not a mecca for
immigrants, and until the 1970s, most of those who did come were European.

After a military government seized power in 1973, the number of migrants from
Europe tapered off.

When the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet ended in 1990, however, migration
from other Latin American countries, particularly Peru, spiked.

A study by the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies in San Diego said
economic policies implemented by the government of Alberto Fujimori in Peru in
the 1990s displaced many of Peru's poor, fueling the migration to Chile.

More than half of Peru's population of 28 million lives in poverty, in
households that do not make enough money to cover basic food needs. In
neighboring Bolivia, the poverty rate is even higher.

Meanwhile, Chile, a country of 16 million, has been growing economically and
reducing its poverty rate, which now officially stands at about 18 percent.

The extent of the migration became apparent in the last census, conducted in
2002, which tallied 185,000 immigrants, the largest number on record for Chile.
The number of immigrants from Peru and Ecuador each grew by more than 300
percent after 1992.

"From outside, they see [Chile] as different from the others, and this has a
powerful attraction for potential immigrants," said Jorge Martinez of the U.N.
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean. From inside Chile, the
view is more severe.

A recent UNICEF survey of 720 Chilean schoolchildren showed that 46 percent
considered themselves superior to residents of at least one other Latin American
country. Thirty-two percent of respondents said Peruvians were inferior and 30
percent said Bolivians were.

Chilean immigration law is restrictive, making it difficult for migrants to
obtain work visas.

"The laws in effect are from 1974, are clearly restrictive and were written by a
military dictatorship. Although many things aren't applied, they are still in
effect," Martinez said.

Victor Paiba, president of the Committee for Peruvian Refugees in Santiago, said
being in Chile illegally means living on the fringe. "If you don't have [an
identification] number, you don't exist," he said.

Illegal workers are subjected to mistreatment and substandard pay by
unscrupulous employers,  he said.

Paiba's group was among several that took part in a recent protest march to
demand amnesty that would allow illegal immigrants to become documented,
affording them access to health care and greater protection at work.

Martinez said Chile needs to address its treatment of immigrants, because their
numbers will continue to grow.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              183 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 3, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Smarty Jones's Jockey Arrested by Immigration Officials

SECTION: Sports; D02

LENGTH: 358 words


Kentucky Derby winning jockey Stewart Elliott has been arrested and detained by
federal immigration officials because of a guilty plea to felony assault four
years ago.

Elliott, a Canadian citizen who won the Derby and Preakness aboard Smarty Jones
last year, was taken into custody Tuesday and arrested by U.S. Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement agents at Philadelphia International Airport, the Department
of Homeland Security said in a statement.

Elliott's criminal history become public during Smarty Jones's bid for the
Triple Crown, which fell short when he lost to Birdstone by a length at the
Belmont Stakes in June. It then showed up in screenings by customs officers at
the Philadelphia airport this week, Homeland Security spokesman Manny Van Pelt
said.

*  COLLEGE FOOTBALL: Two South Carolina players have been suspended indefinitely
from the team after police said two televisions were stolen from university dorm
rooms, the latest in a string of disciplinary problems involving the Gamecocks
since late last season. Defensive end Moe Thompson, a junior, and tackle Kevin
Mainord, a redshirt freshman, were suspended, an athletics spokesman said.

*  SOCCER: The Spanish federation fined Deportivo de La Coruna for racist
taunting during a match on Feb. 26. Fans made monkey noises at Real Madrid
defender Roberto Carlos during a Spanish league game, forcing officials to stop
play and have stadium personnel confront the spectators.

Deportivo is the fifth Spanish league team reprimanded for racism since
December. Racist taunting also has marred Spain's international games. On
Tuesday, Spain Coach Luis Aragones was fined $3,940 by the federation for a
racist comment about Arsenal striker Thierry Henry and an outburst about
Britain's colonial past.

*  TENNIS: Australian Open champion Serena Williams overcame a rough first set
and tricky wind to beat Russia's Elena Bovina, 1-6, 6-1, 6-4, and reach the
Dubai Open quarterfinals.

*  OBITUARY: Jan Gangelhoff, the former University of Minnesota office manager
who blew the whistle on academic fraud in the basketball program, died of cancer
at age 56.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              184 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2005 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Stalemate Lengthens Brothers' Detention;
Citing Opposition To U.S. Restrictions, Four Refuse Release

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1297 words


They waited more than a thousand days for good news, and on a chilly February
afternoon it came: A guard at the Terminal Island immigration jail walked into
the dorm room of the four Mirmehdi  brothers and said they were being released.

It seemed that their run as four of the longest-held detainees since the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks was ending. The Iranian-born brothers -- Mostafa,
45, Mojtaba, 41, Mohsen, 37, and Mohammed, 34 -- hustled downstairs to a
processing room at the jail, near Long Beach, Calif. Authorities handed them the
clothes they had been wearing when they were arrested, in October 2001, on
suspicion of being members of an Iranian opposition group the State Department
lists as a terrorist organization. Later, authorities handed them something
else: a list of 13 conditions to sign before their release.

As they read the conditions, Mohsen Mirmehdi  said, the light left their eyes.
Considering some of them too strict, the brothers refused to sign -- and went
back to jail.

But U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has matched the brothers'
determination with its own, in a case that underscores the government's powers
of detention even after a Supreme Court ruling that immigrants in the Mirmehdis'
circumstances cannot be held indefinitely.

ICE began reviewing the brothers' objections this week. Meanwhile, their
detention has stretched to 41 months.

Exactly how they arrived at this pass takes some explaining.

Their case dates to 1999, when the government found that they had filed false
applications for asylum here, but released them on bond while considering what
to do with them. In October 2001, they were detained without bail under the USA
Patriot Act because of what authorities said was "new evidence" that they were
members of the Mujaheddin-e Khalq (MEK), which seeks to overthrow the Iranian
government.

An immigration judge accepted the evidence the next year, but in August 2004 an
appeals board overturned that ruling, saying the government's evidence was
questionable and the brothers represented no threat to U.S. security. That
ruling undercut the reason for holding the brothers under the Patriot Act.

Still, the Mirmehdis  could be deported for  immigration infractions, ICE
spokeswoman Virginia Kice said.

But not to Iran. Immigration judges ruled that they could not be deported there
because of the U.S. government's allegations involving them and MEK make  it
likely that they would face persecution and perhaps torture. So ICE began
seeking a third country to take them.

Hence the  standoff. As the result of a 2001 Supreme Court ruling, ICE had six
months after the Mirmehdis were found not to be a security threat to deport or
release them. Facing a Feb. 20 deadline, the agency invoked a rule that allows
it to attach conditions to any release.

"It's really absurd," said Marc Van Der Hout,  lead attorney for the brothers.
"We have an agency that has run amok. It took several years and other courts
intervening to find there is no basis to these allegations" concerning the
Mirmehdis and the MEK.

Kice said ICE is  adamant about enforcing the conditions. "We want to ensure
that these brothers continue to be available, should we get permission from a
third country to remove them," she said.

Among the conditions the brothers found objectionable were provisions that would
bar them from venturing more than 30 miles from their San Fernando Valley home
without written permission, changing their address without approval, and
contacting anyone with a criminal record or suspicious background.

"How can we know who that is?" Mohsen Mirmehdi  asked during a telephone
interview from jail. "We cannot do our real estate business. We cannot travel to
downtown Los Angeles. We have to always look over the shoulder. They can bring
us back here anytime for anything. This is not freedom. They were containing us
in a 30-mile prison."

It was clear that officials wanted the brothers to sign off on the conditions,
Mohsen Mirmehdi said. "Our deportation officer . . . shouted, 'We are being nice
to you guys. Now you are blowing your chance.' " Another official, he said, told
them, "You could be having lobster tonight instead of peanut butter and jelly."

But Mohsen Mirmehdi,  who had slipped on the brown shirt and gray pants he was
wearing when he was arrested in October  2001, slowly took them off and put back
on his prison blues. His brothers followed suit.

The Mirmehdis'  sojourn in the United States began in 1978, when Mostafa, who
goes by the name Michael, arrived as a student. He said he studied mechanical
nuclear engineering at several universities, including the University of
Oklahoma at Norman. His brothers joined him in the 1990s, and they attended
protests against the Iranian government in Washington and Denver.

Their trouble started when they waited until the last possible moment before a
1998 deadline for Iranians to file for political asylum here. The brothers
turned to attorney Bahram "Ben" Tabatabai, a U.S. citizen of Iranian descent,
who advised them to sign a blank application, which he filled in  with
misspelled names and false information.

In November 1999, Tabatabai was arrested, accused of being  part of a forgery
ring that helped Iranians acquire visas and asylum in the United States. A U.S.
attorney said one of his more important clients was the MEK.

The FBI said Tabatabai confessed that the Mirmehdis  were connected to the MEK.
He later recanted, saying agents pressured him into saying making the
allegation.

The brothers had a lengthy stay in jail, but after testifying  about their
dealings with Tabatabai they were released on bond.

They were arrested again in October  2001, after the FBI raided an MEK safe
house and found their names on a sheet of paper. Government officials publicized
the alleged link at  a news conference.

The MEK, which fought on Iraq's side in the eight-year Iran-Iraq war, was
designated a terrorist organization by  the State Department  in October 1997.
Several members of Congress have tried to have the MEK removed  from the list.
Rep. Gary L. Ackerman (D-N.Y.) spoke at an MEK rally the brothers are accused of
attending in June 1997, and former  attorney general John D. Ashcroft expressed
support for the organization in 2000, while he was a senator.

Before leaving Iran, Mojtaba Mirmehdi  said, he was arrested and tortured on
suspicion that he belonged to MEK. "I said nothing. I said I was innocent, and
they let me go," he said. Mohsen Mirmehdi  said four cousins -- two men and two
women -- were imprisoned and killed on the suspicion that they were part of the
group.

"If I had gone to a rally in Iran, my native country, and went to jail, I'm sure
they would torture me," he said.

Then he added: "But they wouldn't hold me this long. It's very saddening."

Now the brothers await word from ICE. They have  spent about $150,000 on
attorneys' fees, exhausting their savings. They sleep on bunk beds in a pod of
about 40 people, and sit in front of the television to help pass time.

"During the day, I do some cleanup," Mohsen Mirmehdi  said. "I get $1 a day."

He said he and his brothers have no love for the Iranian government but  are not
terrorists.

The federal government expressed doubt in their court hearings. "Could you tell
us why, when you were in the United States, why did you participate in political
demonstrations?" a judge asked Mohsen Mirmehdi,  according to a transcript.

"I wanted to raise up the voice of the Iranian people in the world against the
regime, and also I wanted to share the objection I have to the regime with the
other people," he said.

When he leaves prison, Mohsen Mirmehdi  said, he wants to speak out again.

"It is my right," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2005



CORRECTION:  A March 5 article on the refusal of four detained Iranian brothers
to accept conditions for their release misstated the legal basis for their
detention. They were held under provisions of immigration law, not the USA
Patriot Act.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              185 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             March 5, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Employee Charged in Store Scam

BYLINE: Tom Jackman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B04

LENGTH: 347 words


An employee of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has been arrested
in Fairfax County for allegedly trying to scam department stores out of money by
returning items with higher price tags than what was on them originally, police
said yesterday.

Fairfax police arrested Jennifer G. Crandall, 40, of Vienna on Tuesday at the
new Fairfax Corner shopping center, according to court records. She was charged
with one count of obtaining money by false pretenses and released on her own
recognizance.

Sgt. Richard Perez said investigators began checking into the case early last
month, after a store suspected Crandall of theft. Perez said police believe that
Crandall would buy an item from a store and also steal a price tag from a
similar but higher-priced item.

Police allege that Crandall then would return the item and use the stolen price
tag to receive more money or credit than she had paid originally, Perez said.

Detective David A. Mulvey arrested Crandall and then obtained a search warrant
for her purse, court records show. Inside the purse, Mulvey found 49 gift cards
or merchandise credit cards from various stores and 57 receipts, as well as a
Maryland driver's license with the name Jennifer Graves, which Mulvey alleged
was used to make the returns.

Crandall could not be located yesterday for comment.

Manny Van Pelt, a spokesman for the immigration agency, said yesterday that
Crandall was an employee of the agency, a division of the Department of Homeland
Security. He could not say whether she was an agent or civilian employee or what
her current job status was.

"We take all allegations of employee misconduct seriously and have referred the
matter to ICE's Office of Professional Responsibility for inquiry," Van Pelt
said. "Until the issue has been resolved, it would be inappropriate to comment
further."

Obtaining money by false pretenses is a Class 4 felony in Virginia. If Crandall
was convicted of that charge, she would face a minimum two years in prison and a
fine of up to $100,000.

Staff writer John Mintz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              186 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 17, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Chertoff Orders Agency Review;
Changes Possible, DHS Chief Says

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A23

LENGTH: 705 words


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said yesterday that he has launched
a top-to-bottom review of the 180,000-employee department  and will consider
revamping entire agencies and programs that are part of it.

"Old categories, old jurisdictions and old turf will not define our objectives,"
Chertoff said in a speech at George Washington University, 13 days after he took
over the department. "Bureaucratic structures and categories exist to serve our
mission, and not to drive it."

Chertoff described his 60- to 90-day examination as "a comprehensive review of
our entire organization, the way it's structured . . . and its policies."

In an interview with reporters, Chertoff declined to elaborate on possible
changes, but officials said one option is merging two of its agencies.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), which investigates crimes, and
Customs and Border Protection (CBP), which monitors foreigners arriving at U.S.
airports,  are  separate parts of the former U.S. Customs Service and the old
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). Proponents say the reunited agency
would function more effectively.

In his speech, Chertoff said his study to identify the department's top
priorities will focus on three factors: the specific kinds of threats terrorists
pose, American society's vulnerabilities to attack and which kinds of attacks
would be most devastating.

In his address, Chertoff for the first time laid out his vision for protecting
the nation, and there were no obvious differences with the priorities of his
predecessor, Tom Ridge. But Chertoff hinted at  subtle changes in emphasis.

Chertoff, who headed the Justice Department's criminal division under former
attorney  general John D. Ashcroft, said he expects smoother coordination
between federal agencies, particularly his department and Justice. Aides have
pointed out that  Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales has a much more
circumspect style than Ashcroft, his predecessor.

"We have a new group of players, people who are in government," Chertoff said.
"I don't think there's anybody here who's looking to jostle for position in
front of the camera. I think what we're looking to do is project a disciplined
and steady flow of information to the public, which keeps people informed."

On a few occasions in the past couple of years, Ridge was frustrated when
Ashcroft  announced alarming terrorist threat information  --  a duty  that,
under presidential directive, falls to the homeland security secretary. At
times, the DHS disagreed with the tone of Ashcroft's announcements.

Chertoff said his inclination is to avoid commenting publicly about fast-moving
threat-related events, especially in the realm of scientific investigations,
unless he is  certain of the facts  --  even if the media are clamoring for
information. "I may say we don't know very much at all," he said. "I'm not going
to guess."

Aides said those remarks were prompted in part by events on Tuesday when, they
said, two cable television networks incorrectly reported that government
laboratories had confirmed finding anthrax bacteria at a Defense Department mail
facility in Virginia. By Tuesday evening, officials said  tests all but ruled
out the presence of anthrax bacteria.

Chertoff declined to discuss details about 12 possible scenarios for terrorist
attacks identified by the White House's Homeland Security Council last year. The
council's report, distributed to state homeland security offices,  was designed
to sharpen preparedness planning at all levels of government. It was revealed by
the New York Times in yesterday's editions.

A 10-kiloton nuclear bomb, for example, would destroy everything within a half
mile, would cost hundreds of billions of dollars and would contaminate 3,000
square miles of land, according to the report. An attack on a petroleum refinery
could kill 350 people and hospitalize 1,000, it said.

Attacking a chlorine tank at an industrial plant could cause 17,500 deaths, and
likely would prompt large groups of people to flee in panic, which would cause
more fatalities in traffic accidents and other mishaps. The rule of thumb, the
report said, is one fatality for every 10,000 people who evacuate.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              187 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 30, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Convicted Terrorist Deported To Lebanon After Prison Term

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A10

LENGTH: 145 words


A Lebanese hijacker, the first terrorist convicted in the United States for an
attack against U.S. citizens on foreign soil, was deported Monday after nearly
16 years in federal prison, authorities said yesterday.

Fawaz Yunis, a member of the Amal Militia in Lebanon, led the 1985 hijacking of
Royal Jordanian Airlines Flight 402 in Beirut.

Yunis and four gunmen unsuccessfully tried to fly to Cyprus before returning to
Beirut, where they blew up the plane after releasing the passengers unharmed.
Two of the hostages were U.S. citizens.

Yunis was apprehended overseas by U.S. officials in 1987 and convicted by a
federal court in March 1989. Authorities with U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement said he was released from federal prison in Petersburg, Va., in
February and deported to Lebanon Monday. He was deported  because he is
considered an illegal immigrant.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              188 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Raid Opens Door on a Crowded House;
Loudoun Finds Zoning Problems at Home of Immigrant Restaurant Workers

BYLINE: Michael Laris, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C07

LENGTH: 1043 words


Li Ping was sleeping off another late night waiting tables at King's Buffet when
the banging began outside her bedroom door.

"I didn't have time to unlock it. They broke in. They carried their guns in
their hands," recalled Li, 30, who said she was patted down in her pajamas and
interrogated in the dining room with her 12 anxious, bed-headed housemates, most
of whom also worked at King's.

The Tuesday morning raid on a split-level brick house in Sterling by four
federal agents, six sheriff's deputies and two Loudoun County officials resulted
from a neighbor alleging a zoning infraction.

"Occupancy is over 16 people who are not of the same family!" the complaint
read.

The harried scene ended after zoning officials counted beds and measured room
sizes, and after Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents took four illegal
Chinese immigrants  --  all cooks at King's  --  into custody wearing handcuffs
and leg shackles. A co-owner of the house said two were later released pending a
hearing. The other housemates were cleared after showing agents their U.S.
passports or visas and headed into work late in the white van that shuttles them
back and forth.

Loudoun officials said the unusual search represented an effort to address
growing complaints about large groups of people seeking cheap  --  though
potentially unsafe  --  housing by packing into homes and apartments meant for
one family. It is an issue officials confront throughout the Washington region.

"We have a large immigrant community working in food service and construction,
and the cost of housing is very high. I wouldn't be surprised if we see more of
this type of situation," said Loudoun Zoning Administrator Melinda Artman. "We
certainly want to show the public we're working on their behalf, and we're
responsive."

But the raid and detentions also opened a rare, and not entirely welcome, window
into the private struggles and often harrowing histories of immigrants from
southeastern China's Fujian province, many of whom labor to keep strip malls
across the United States full of cheap Chinese food.

"They're pursuing the American dream," said L. Ling-chi Wang, an Asian American
studies professor at the University of California at Berkeley who was born in
Fujian.

Although it was unclear how the four undocumented residents of the house had
entered the United States, it is common for Chinese entering illegally from
Fujian to be smuggled, Wang said.

"They are willing to take that kind of risk to come over here and have a very,
very tough start. They do work very, very hard and get exploited a lot," he
said.

The remaining residents said they were in the country legally, often through
programs that favor relatives of U.S. citizens.

Immigrants from Fujian frequently find their way to a host of employment
agencies on or near East Broadway in New York's Chinatown. They respond to
low-wage job postings from an expanding universe of eateries outside the
historic hubs of New York and California in such places as Virginia, where
competition is less fierce, said Ko-lin Chin, an expert on Chinese immigration
and organized crime at Rutgers University. Often, housing and transportation are
part of the deal.

"They say there are only two things in their life. In the daytime, there are
stoves. In the nighttime, there are pillows. That's it," Chin said. "They live a
very isolated life in the U.S."

But Chin, who has interviewed more than 300 immigrants from "sending
communities" in China, said most of the people he has spoken with have succeeded
at their primary goal  --  making money here and sending U.S. dollars home.

In the case of King's Buffet, long hours and hard work are the norm, according
to interviews with several of the workers who live together in the Sterling home
raided last week. Workers said they're generally at the restaurant about 12
hours a day.

One cook, whose wife's U.S. citizenship eased his legal immigration, expressed
frustration that authorities would target their living circumstances and detain
their colleagues and housemates who had become like brothers.

"We make good food. We don't bother anybody. We're just here working," said the
man, who said his surname is Chen. "We'd rather live by ourselves, too, but
there's just no way."

"Few of us from Fuzhou are documented," he added, referring to Fujian's capital.
He said the men who were detained Tuesday had made many sacrifices to better
their families' lives in China. One had been away from his wife and children for
more than a decade. "Those of us from China who come to America, our life is
hard," he said, adding that the raid was a mystifying and terrifying experience
for those here both legally and illegally.

"It became so big. In China, they didn't even force in on us like that. You'd
have to do a huge crime to get this," Chen said. "We're not criminals. We're
workers."

Their situation was greeted with both sympathy and skepticism along North
Argonne Avenue, where neighbors said the home had become an eyesore, with large
appliances, such as a stove, and other junk left at the curb for long periods,
hurting their property values.

"Everybody should be equal to live where they want to live, to have a home. But
we should also be neat and tidy and be law-abiding, and that's not happening in
Sterling," said David Yokum, who lives across the street.

County zoning officials had put the house under surveillance after receiving
complaints about the trash and crowding. They said they saw as many as 19 people
leave the house and board the van one morning, and they found 20 beds there
Tuesday.

Li Minxing, one of the home's owners, said 13 people live there, some of them
related. According to the county zoning ordinance, no more than four unrelated
adults can legally live in the home. There are also minimum square-foot
requirements when multiple people live in a bedroom, and county officials allege
that those rules were violated.

Li Minxing said county officials had not given her enough time to correct
problems at the house. She said rent is paid by the restaurant's owner, though
she declined to disclose the amount. Li said she is overseeing King's Buffet
while the owner, is visiting China and is unavailable for comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              189 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 12, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 285 words


VIRGINIA

Endangerment Alleged A man was arrested on child endangerment charges after
police stopped a van containing 12 allegedly undocumented immigrants, three of
them younger than 18, Fairfax County  authorities said.

The van was stopped after making an illegal U-turn about 8:45 a.m. Sunday on
Braddock Road at Ravensworth Road in Annandale, said Officer Bud Walker, a
Fairfax police spokesman.

Police said officers called U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and
arrested the driver, identified as Emigdio Velasquez-Sargento, 22.  Walker said
the van had no food or water and was carrying three passengers whose ages were
12, 15 and 17.

Police said the people in the van might have come from Arizona and might have
been on the road for three days.

Authorities said the van's passengers were released pending a federal
immigration investigation.

maryland

Mother Charged A Montgomery County woman whose children were home alone when
their apartment caught fire Saturday has been issued a criminal citation
alleging that she had left them without adequate supervision, Montgomery County
police said.

Police said the citation was issued to Sherrie Parker, 28, of the 3300 block of
Teagarden Circle in  the Briggs Chaney area. If convicted, she could be fined as
much as $500 and sentenced to as much as 30 days in jail.

Police said the children were ages 7, 6 and 16 months. They said the law
prohibits leaving a child younger than 8 at home unsupervised by someone at
least 13.

According to Pete Piringer, a spokesman for the county fire and rescue
department, the fire at the apartment house caused $100,000 in damage and
displaced four families.

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              190 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Man Seized At U.S. Capitol To Be Deported;
No Charges Against Australian

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 586 words


A 33-year-old Australian man who was tackled in a standoff with police at the
U.S. Capitol on Monday will be deported, and no criminal charges will be filed
against him, authorities said yesterday.

Allan Doody, special agent in charge of the Washington field office for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Wenhao Zhao will be sent back to
Australia in the coming days. Doody said Zhao violated the terms of his visit,
but he declined to elaborate, citing U.S. privacy rules.

Zhao arrived in the United States on Friday as a tourist under a program that
allows citizens of nearly 30 U.S. allies to enter the country without obtaining
a visa, authorities said. A spokesman for the Australian Embassy said consular
officials spoke with Zhao yesterday morning at an immigration facility. A
spokeswoman for Australia's foreign affairs department, reached last night in
Canberra, said Zhao had "declined consular assistance."

Zhao prompted an hour-long standoff with police after he rolled two suitcases up
to a fountain on the west side of the Capitol. Police officers grew suspicious
of his actions and questioned him, but Zhao would not cooperate and requested a
meeting with the president, authorities said.

An hour later, heavily armed officers tackled Zhao, and bomb squad technicians
blew apart one of his bags. The incident lasted three hours, delayed public
tours at the Capitol and diverted traffic on some nearby streets.

Capitol Police Chief Terrance W. Gainer said at a news conference Monday that
police intended to charge Zhao with disorderly conduct for refusing to cooperate
and obey police officers.

But Gainer said yesterday that investigators changed their minds after
interrogating him. They believe that Zhao might have mental problems because he
was not making much sense during the questioning, Gainer said. "He didn't seem
to be in full control of his faculties," he said. "Most of what he was saying
was nonsensical."

During interrogations, Zhao also reiterated his request to see the president or
said police could kill him, Gainer said. He also told police that they would
understand his actions in a week, Gainer said, adding that he attached no
particular importance to that statement. Police and federal authorities said
they do not believe that Zhao is a terrorist or that he was plotting to hurt
anyone.

Police found nothing suspicious in Zhao's past or in his bags. After
questioning, investigators sent Zhao for observation, and doctors who evaluated
him declined to admit him, Gainer said.

He said Capitol Police then turned Zhao over to immigration authorities for
deportation. Gainer said he thought that deportation was an appropriate penalty
because officers did not believe that Zhao was mentally competent for
prosecution.

Police and federal investigators traced Zhao's movements since he entered the
United States through Los Angeles on Friday. He was believed to be in the
District over the weekend, authorities said.

Law enforcement officials said investigators visited hotels where they
understood he might have stayed but were unable to determine where he spent his
time. They said Zhao was born in China and became an Australian citizen a year
ago.

Authorities said it was unlikely that Zhao would be allowed to reenter the
country. They said that he would have to request a visa to return and that if he
attempted to enter again under the waiver program, he would be refused entry.

Staff writers Allan Lengel and Martin Weil contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              191 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Man Seized At Capitol Will Be Deported;
Australian Won't Face Charges After Standoff

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 583 words


A 33-year-old Australian man who was tackled in a standoff with police at the
U.S. Capitol on Monday will be deported, and no criminal charges will be filed
against him, authorities said yesterday.

Allan Doody, special agent in charge of the Washington field office for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Wenhao Zhao will be sent back to
Australia in the coming days. Doody said Zhao violated the terms of his visit,
but he declined to elaborate, citing U.S. privacy rules.

Zhao arrived in the United States on Friday as a tourist under a program that
allows citizens of nearly 30 U.S. allies to enter the country without obtaining
a visa, authorities said. A spokesman for the Australian Embassy said consular
officials spoke with Zhao yesterday morning at an immigration facility. A
spokeswoman for Australia's foreign affairs department, reached last night in
Canberra, said Zhao had "declined consular assistance."

Zhao prompted an hour-long standoff with police after he rolled two suitcases up
to a fountain on the west side of the Capitol. Police officers grew suspicious
of his actions and questioned him, but Zhao would not cooperate and requested a
meeting with the president, authorities said.

An hour later, heavily armed officers tackled Zhao, and bomb squad technicians
blew apart one of his bags. The incident lasted three hours, delayed public
tours at the Capitol and diverted traffic.

Capitol Police Chief Terrance W. Gainer said at a news conference Monday that
police intended to charge Zhao with disorderly conduct for refusing to cooperate
and obey police officers.

But Gainer said yesterday that investigators changed their minds after
interrogating him. They believe that Zhao might have mental problems because he
was not making much sense during the questioning, Gainer said. "He didn't seem
to be in full control of his faculties," he said. "Most of what he was saying
was nonsensical."

During interrogations, Zhao also reiterated his request to see the president or
said police could kill him, Gainer said. He also told police that they would
understand his actions in a week, Gainer said, adding that he attached no
particular importance to that statement. Police and federal authorities said
they do not believe that Zhao is a terrorist or that he was plotting to hurt
anyone.

Police found nothing suspicious in Zhao's past or in his bags. After
questioning, investigators sent Zhao for observation, and doctors who evaluated
him declined to admit him, Gainer said.

He said Capitol Police then turned Zhao over to immigration authorities for
deportation. Gainer said he thought that deportation was an appropriate penalty
because officers did not believe that Zhao was mentally competent for
prosecution.

Police and federal investigators traced Zhao's movements since he entered the
United States through Los Angeles on Friday. He was believed to be in the
District over the weekend, authorities said.

Law enforcement officials said investigators visited hotels where they
understood he might have stayed but were unable to determine where he spent his
time. They said Zhao was born in China and became an Australian citizen a year
ago.

Authorities said it was unlikely that Zhao would be allowed to reenter the
country. They said that he would have to request a visa to return and that if he
attempted to enter again under the waiver program, he would be refused entry.

Staff writers Allan Lengel and Martin Weil contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              192 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Australian In Standoff Will Be Deported;
No Charges Filed In Capitol Incident

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 571 words


A 33-year-old Australian man who was tackled in a standoff with police at the
U.S. Capitol on Monday will be deported, and no criminal charges will be filed
against him, authorities said yesterday.

Allan Doody, special agent in charge of the Washington field office for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Wenhao Zhao will be sent back to
Australia in the coming days. Doody said Zhao violated the terms of his visit,
but he declined to elaborate.

Zhao arrived in the United States on Friday as a tourist under a program that
allows citizens of nearly 30 U.S. allies to enter the country without obtaining
a visa, authorities said. An Australian Embassy spokesman said consular
officials spoke with Zhao yesterday morning at an immigration facility. A
spokeswoman for Australia's foreign affairs department, reached last night in
Canberra, said Zhao had "declined consular assistance."

Zhao prompted an hour-long standoff with police after he rolled two suitcases up
to a fountain on the west side of the Capitol. Police officers grew suspicious
of his actions and questioned him, but Zhao would not cooperate and requested a
meeting with the president, authorities said.

An hour later, heavily armed officers tackled Zhao, and bomb squad technicians
blew apart one of his bags. The incident lasted three hours, delayed public
tours at the Capitol and diverted traffic on some nearby streets.

Capitol Police Chief Terrance W. Gainer said at a news conference Monday that
police intended to charge Zhao with disorderly conduct for refusing to cooperate
and obey police officers.

But Gainer said yesterday that investigators changed their minds after
interrogating him. They believe that Zhao might have mental problems because he
was not making much sense during the questioning, Gainer said. "He didn't seem
to be in full control of his faculties," he said. "Most of what he was saying
was nonsensical."

Zhao also reiterated his request to see the president or said police could kill
him, Gainer said. He also told police that they would understand his actions in
a week, Gainer said, adding that he attached no particular importance to that
statement. Police and federal authorities said they do not believe that Zhao is
a terrorist or that he was plotting to hurt anyone.

Police found nothing suspicious in Zhao's past or in his bags. After
questioning, investigators sent Zhao for observation, and doctors who evaluated
him declined to admit him, Gainer said.

Capitol Police then turned Zhao over to immigration authorities for deportation.

Gainer said deportation was an appropriate penalty because officers did not
believe that Zhao was mentally competent for prosecution.

Police and federal investigators traced Zhao's movements since he entered the
United States through Los Angeles on Friday. He was believed to be in the
District over the weekend, authorities said.

Officials said investigators visited hotels where they understood he might have
stayed but were unable to determine where he spent his time. They said Zhao was
born in China and became an Australian citizen a year ago.

Authorities said it was unlikely that Zhao would be allowed to reenter the
country. They said that he would have to request a visa to return and that if he
attempted to enter again under the waiver program, he would be refused entry.

Staff writers Allan Lengel and Martin Weil contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              193 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 16, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Paris Fire Victims Leap to Street;
At Least 20 Dead At Hotel Used to House Immigrants

BYLINE: Keith B. Richburg and Erika Lorentzsen, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: PARIS April 15


Terrified people jumped to their deaths from windows early Friday as fire gutted
a six-story budget hotel in the French capital's premier shopping district. The
blaze killed at least 20 people, half of them children, and injured 59,
according to police and fire officials and witnesses.

Many of the victims were African immigrants being temporarily housed by the city
government in the Paris-Opera hotel, located in the Opera district near the
Galeries Lafayette department store. The store, popular with Parisian shoppers
and foreign tourists, was turned into a makeshift hospital for the injured.

"We were woken up by people screaming, 'Fire!' and I opened my window and saw
flames," said Isabelle Arago, 43, who lives in a building next door. She said
she "smelled smoke when the fire started, and it filled the air, and you could
feel the heat. But it was raining, which was a blessing."

"The most shocking thing was to see children being thrown by their parents out
windows and there was no one there to catch them," Arago said. "They just fell
to the ground. It's something horrible and something I've never seen in the 23
years I've lived in Paris."

The dead and injured included people from Algeria, Senegal, Ivory Coast,
Tunisia, Portugal, Canada and Ukraine. Three Americans were registered at the
hotel, but they were not listed among the dead or injured, according to the
police.

President Jacques Chirac, who visited the scene early Friday, called the fire
"one of the most distressing disasters to have struck Paris."

The hotel, located on a narrow side street, is owned by the city government.
Though standing just a few steps from fashionable addresses, it was used to
house indigent immigrants, political asylum seekers and people evicted from
homes elsewhere in the city. The hotel was also a stop for low-budget tourists.

The city had a budget of about $12.4  million for such housing in 2004, the
newspaper Le Monde reported. In June it was putting up 4,734 people in various
facilities across Paris, the publication said.

"The situation since 2000 has been that, when there are no places left in
permanent structures, the people are placed in hotels that don't necessarily
conform to hygienic and safety standards, or indeed to standards of human
dignity," Pierre Henri, director of the nonprofit organization Terre d'Asile,
told the Associated Press. His group helps asylum seekers.

The fire apparently started about 2 a.m. in a first-floor breakfast room, fire
officials said. About 75 guests and long-term residents were in the hotel at the
time. The flames quickly collapsed part of the hotel's single stairwell, making
escape difficult.

Alfred Millot, head of security at Galeries Lafayette, said a guard called him
at home and told him of the emergency and he reached the scene within five
minutes. "When I got there, I saw people jumping out of windows. It was a very
violent fire and seemed like war. The stairs were on fire, the windows were on
fire, everything. They always tell you to stay put and put a wet towel under
your door, but I guess these people couldn't because the fire was too strong."

A fire department captain, Christophe Varennes, told Le Monde that when the
rescue teams reached the scene, they found seven adults and four children dead
from jumping out of windows.

Working in the limited space of the street, firefighters ran extension ladders
to upper-floor windows, where people huddled in fear as flames pressed close,
filling windows a few feet away. According to Varennes, about 60 people were
brought down the ladders safely.

The fire was brought under control after an hour, but 12 hours after the blaze
began, the building was still smoldering and the area was cordoned off. About
250 firefighters helped battle the blaze.

Fire officials said the blaze appeared to be accidental, but police began an
investigation into possible involuntary manslaughter.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              194 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 17, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Driver's License Curtailed as Identification;
Critics Call 'Real ID' Issue Forcefully Anti-Immigrant

BYLINE: T.R. Reid and Darryl Fears, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 1428 words

DATELINE: WEST VALLEY, Utah


In the two years since she got her Utah driver's license, Guadalupe Camarillo
notes with obvious pride, she has had no accidents, no moving violations and no
parking tickets. "I drive so careful, I've never even been stopped," she beams.

But Camarillo is about to lose her license. The cleaning woman from Michoacan,
Mexico, is among tens of thousands of illegal immigrants whose licenses will be
voided under a state law that took effect March 8.

A precursor to the "Real ID Act" pending in the U.S. Senate, the Utah law gives
undocumented workers such as Camarillo "driving privilege cards" instead of
licenses. The document authorizes driving but declares in bold red letters that
it cannot be used as legal identification.

Many Hispanics, including U.S. citizens, are outraged by the change. "You work
hard, you pay the same taxes as anybody else, but the state legislature brands
you as second-rate," noted veteran activist John Florez of Salt Lake City. "I'm
sorry to say it, but the real point here is racism."

Responds state Sen. Curtis S. Bramble (R), who sponsored the new state law:
"Tell me how granting a privilege to somebody who is here illegally can be
called punitive. We are letting people drive. They can get [auto] insurance. But
they can't use this card to buy firearms or serve on a jury or vote. Those are
rights for citizens."

The restrictions that undocumented immigrants face in Utah could be felt
nationwide if Congress passes the Real ID Act. The legislation cleared the House
in February and faces debate on the Senate floor that may begin this week.

The legislation would compel states to painstakingly verify documents submitted
for driver's licenses  --  birth certificates, utility bills, Social Security
numbers and other records  --  in an effort to prevent terrorists from obtaining
the papers they need to blend into society. But it also would affect
undocumented immigrants, such as Camarillo, who lack green cards or visas, yet
hold jobs.

The legislation would also authorize completion of a portion of the U.S.-Mexico
border fence in San Diego and make it more difficult for asylum seekers to gain
citizenship. In effect, critics say, the Real ID Act would be the nation's most
powerful anti-immigrant legislation in decades.

Its sponsor, House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.
(R-Wis.), said Real ID is an effort to adopt some of the recommendations of the
commission that investigated the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The panel found that
terrorists had studied the asylum process and driver's license fraud as ways to
enter and move freely about the United States.

While the Bush administration has expressed support for the Real ID Act, White
House officials are concerned that debate over the issue on the Senate floor
could stall the higher-priority spending bill for the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, to which the House legislation is attached.

Sen. Larry E. Craig (R-Idaho) wants to protect illegal immigrant farmworkers by
granting them permanent citizenship. His proposal could lead to a flurry of
other amendments and spark a wide-ranging debate on national immigration policy,
taking time from the war bill that is a higher priority for the White House.

Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) said he supports Real ID in its current form, but he
acknowledged that many colleagues do not. Cornyn and Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.)
announced last week that they plan to craft legislation to address their own
immigration concerns: border security and a guest-worker plan that would grant
limited amnesty to illegal immigrants who currently work in the United States,
which President Bush has endorsed.

More than 600 organizations  oppose the proposed act for a variety of reasons,
including the costs of carrying it out and its potential impact on asylum
seekers.

The 9,000-member American Immigration Lawyers Association said the act could
close the borders to asylum seekers. One aspect of the Real ID legislation would
require immigrants seeking asylum to prove claims of persecution, preferably
with documentation, a tall order for people who were in hiding or running for
their lives, lawyers said.

"The changes will make it difficult for honest refugees to win their cases but
easier for people with bad intentions and a lot of money," said Patricia Lyman,
director of Just Law International. "People who have a plan to game the system,
who will plan ahead and get every document under the sun, they'll be prepared.
Someone truly fleeing a country can't get reports."

Opponents such as the National Governors Association, the National Conference of
State Legislatures, the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators and
the Council of State Governments said the law would be too expensive to
implement and might lead to chaos at motor vehicle bureaus.

Cheye Calvo, director of the transportation committee for the conference of
state legislatures, said state employees who issue driver's licenses would have
to contact vital records employees at 30,000 offices nationwide to verify
documents "in real time," forcing long waits for license applicants. About 70
million people apply for state-issued identification, mostly driver's licenses,
each year, according to the conference.

The legislatures organization estimated that implementing the reforms would cost
between $500 million and $700 million over the next five years. States would be
required to create licenses with tamper-free features such as digital photos,
watermarks, bar codes and possibly magnetic strips. They would also be required
to buy equipment to read the licenses, equipment that allows law enforcement
agencies in different states to communicate, and find space to warehouse
drivers' documents.

Residents of states that decline to participate could not use driver's licenses
as identification to board airplanes, apply for Social Security and veterans
benefits, or complete tax documents for employers.

Jeff E. Lungren, a spokesman for the House Judiciary Committee, called the  cost
estimate "preposterous." He said the Congressional Budget Office's estimate of
about $100 million over five years is fair.

Lungren said Real ID would make the public safer. "If you read the 9/11 report,
they highlight how al Qaeda studied document fraud and other vulnerabilities in
the system," he said. "They undertook the risk and effort to get valid U.S.
driver's licenses and state I.D. cards . . . because they allow you to fit in."

In Utah, undocumented workers and their support groups have expressed bitter
opposition to the new driving cards, but it is not clear so far what the
practical differences will be. Camarillo, for example, said that her boss, her
landlord and her neighbors know she is in the United States illegally, but they
do not seem to care.

The cleaning firm she works for employs 14 women, "and all of us are illegal,"
she said. "The boss knows that." Although Camarillo, 47, has no Social Security
number, her employer withholds $225 per month for Social Security, Medicaid and
income taxes.

"So I am pay[ing] the same tax," she said. "Why I don't get the same license?"
Her auto insurance company assured her, she said, that the driving card will
have no impact on her coverage.

On her annual trip to Mexico, Camarillo said she does not need any Utah
identification because the airlines accept her "matricula consular," an ID
issued by Mexico to nationals living in the United States.

Still, immigrants say, the loss of a driver's license introduces new uncertainty
into lives marked by fear of deportation.

"The cop, he stop you, and he know you are illegal," said Milton Rodriquez, a
Guatemalan who works as a lawn-cutter in Salt Lake City and is currently
contesting a deportation order. "Then, what happen to you?"

Immigrant groups also question why lawmakers focused on undocumented workers and
not their employers. Even  Bramble, the senator who sponsored the "driving
privilege" law, agreed that "we probably need to have that discussion, about
whether there should be some sanction against those who employ the illegals."

As in many states, illegal workers without visas play a key role in Utah's
economy, particularly in the vital tourist industry.

"It used to be that a town like this could find ski bums who would wait tables
and sweep floors in return for a season lift pass," noted Shelley Weiss, the
diversity outreach coordinator for the police department in the resort town of
Park City. "But that culture is gone now."

Fears reported from Washington.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              195 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 20, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 527 words


The Senate balked yesterday  at using an Iraq-Afghanistan aid bill to make it
possible for immigrant farmworkers to win permanent or temporary legal status.

The lawmakers quickly dispensed with two competing agricultural-worker measures
but left open the possibility of granting more temporary visas to foreign crab
pickers and oyster shuckers needed by East Coast food operations.

A 53 to 45 vote indicated support for a measure offered by Sens. Larry E. Craig
(R-Idaho) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) offering permanent residency to
certain immigrant workers. Craig and Kennedy, however, needed 60 votes to
prevent opponents from blocking their measure.

A counterproposal to provide temporary legal status to illegal immigrants as
long as U.S. employers have use for them won the support of  21 senators; 77
opposed it.

Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski ( D-Md.)  was promised a vote later on her amendment to
exempt from the annual 66,000 ceiling on H2B visas workers needed this spring
and summer by seafood wholesalers. Workers who had held such visas in previous
seasons would not  be subject to the ceiling for  this year and next.

The immigration measures had wormed their way into the debate on the spending
bill over protests from the White House and Majority Leader Bill Frist
(R-Tenn.).

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist pledged  that any effort by Republicans to ban
Democratic filibusters of President Bush's judicial nominees would not apply to
filibusters on legislation.

"There is no need for change in relation to legislative matters," Frist said in
a statement issued before GOP senators met for their weekly policy meeting.

But Democrats quickly questioned whether other future Republican leaders would
do the same if Frist opens the door by changing the rules to ban judicial
filibusters. "Every time I talk to Senator Frist, I say, 'You're going to be
leaving here in a year and a half. What kind of a legacy do you want?' " Senate
Minority  Leader Harry M. Reid  (D-Nev.)   said yesterday.

Frist, who has said he would leave the Senate after 2006, is working to ensure
he has 50 votes to approve a rules change that would end Democrats' ability to
threaten filibusters of Bush's judicial nominees. Democrats blocked 10 of Bush's
first-term appeals court nominations through filibuster threats and allowed the
confirmation of 34. Bush has renominated seven of the 10.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) said he plans to move
ahead with  legislation aimed at ending asbestos liability lawsuits in exchange
for a $140 billion victims trust fund, despite concerns from fellow Republicans.

After a closed-door meeting with Judiciary Committee Republicans and Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), Specter said his committee will take up
and possibly vote on his asbestos bill  within two weeks.

However, several committee Republicans said they will not support the bill as
Specter wrote it, but added that they will continue working with him  to try to
reach a compromise.

Without full Republican support, the legislation is unlikely to pass the
GOP-controlled Senate.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              196 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2005 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

With the Plebes, Firing Broadsides, Dropping Depth Charges, Dodging a Bullet

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A Section; A05 , WASHINGTON SKETCH Dana Milbank

LENGTH: 860 words

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS April 21


Sen. John McCain is a walking news conference.

When MTV asked the Arizona Republican to follow Snoop Dogg, Marilyn Manson and
Sting as a guest on its college television network, McCain didn't go in for the
usual chatter about boxers or briefs and what's in his iPod. He announced a
bipartisan proposal to restructure the American immigration system.

"Just by coincidence, Senator Teddy Kennedy and I, in the last couple of days,
after several months of negotiations, have reached an agreement for an
immigration proposal that we will be putting out next week," McCain confided
Thursday to a first-year political science class at the U.S. Naval Academy here.
For the 8 million to 13 million illegal immigrants in the country, the senator
said, "our proposal is along the lines of make them pay a fine of a couple
thousand dollars, make them work for three years, and after three years they can
get in the back of the line for a green card and then eventually become
citizens."

The plebes had no idea that they had heard the exclusive details of a deal
between a border-state Republican and a New England liberal Democrat that could
alter the national debate over immigration. But then, that's McCain.

In his hour with the students, the famously candid lawmaker:

*  Announced that President Bush would speak at the Naval Academy graduation  --
before the White House managed to get that information into the public domain.

*  Urged a steroid ban covering all pro sports.

*  Criticized various U.S. "mistakes" in Iraq.

*  Declared that Bush "needs to start vetoing some bills," and said that on
fiscal matters his fellow Republicans "are abandoning one of the pillars of our
Republican Party."

Viacom's college campus network, mtvU, boasts that it has had a "parade of
kick-ass people" perform as guest lecturers in its "Stand In" program. In
addition to serious figures such as Elie Wiesel and John F. Kerry, the program
has hosted Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (University of the Pacific), Ashley Judd
(University of Kentucky), and, yes, Manson (Temple) and Snoop Dogg (USC).

But the midshipmen who heard McCain (who ranked near the bottom of his Navy
class of '58) said they prefer him even to Sting (University of Illinois). "If
Marilyn Manson or Snoop Dogg came, it wouldn't have been the same," insisted
Jennifer Lloyd, a freshman from Texas. "You can look up to somebody from the
bottom of the academy who has done so well."

McCain dodged the most intriguing question: whether he will run again for
president, seeking the GOP nomination in 2008. "I'm going to wait a couple of
years and then give it some thought at that time," the suddenly cagey senator
said. Still, the session had the feel of the town-hall meetings McCain held
during his "Straight Talk Express" tour of New Hampshire in 1999: take all
questions, and give frank answers.

The clock in the drab lecture room was stuck on 3:58 when McCain entered just
after 10 a.m. It was to have been a surprise, but word leaked out Wednesday, so
few were fooled when the instructor was interrupted by a knock on the door and
the appearance of McCain, who wrote his name on the chalkboard "for those of you
who don't know me." Chuckles all around.

Much of the session was vintage McCain: protesting "outrageous" congressional
pet projects such as studying bear DNA and cow flatulence. Asked how to deal
with pork-barreling lawmakers, McCain deadpanned: "Kill them."

The once and possibly future presidential candidate has a knack for staying at
the center of things. He was recently given the chairmanship of the Senate
Indian affairs committee, a backwater compared with his previous job as commerce
committee chairman. But the panel has subpoenaed Ralph Reed and Grover Norquist
to testify in its investigation of lobbyist Jack Abramoff  --  an event sure to
be a media spectacle.

And now McCain is at the center of the immigration debate, which has split
nativist from pro-business Republicans. The McCain-Kennedy plan, as McCain
outlined it here, goes significantly further toward amnesty for illegal
immigrants than Bush has proposed; that could give Bush leverage as he
negotiates with anti-immigrant Republicans in the House.

The McCain-Kennedy plan, he said, would "spend a lot of money and a lot of
effort" to secure the southern border, using high-tech tools such as unmanned
aerial vehicles and lasers. It would also have a "guest-worker program" that,
unlike Bush's, would lead to legalization. "If there's a job Americans won't do,
someone who can have pools of workers in countries with tamper-proof
documentation, they can come and do those jobs and over a long period of time
become eligible for a green card and eventually citizenship."

Most controversial will be the McCain-Kennedy plan to allow illegal immigrants
to pay a fine, wait three years, then apply for legal residency and citizenship.
"Don't reward them for breaking the law, but also give them an opportunity to
become citizens," McCain said. The senator sounded so reasonable that the
students easily could have missed the fact that their MTV guest lecturer had
just lobbed an ideological grenade into the U.S. Capitol.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2005



CORRECTION: The Senate Indian Affairs Committee has subpoenaed documents from
anti-tax activist Grover Norquist's organization and has requested documents
from consultant Ralph Reed's company. An April 22 article reported incorrectly
that the two have been subpoenaed to testify.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              197 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 22, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Approves Spending Bill;
$81 Billion to Finance Wars, Baghdad Embassy

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A04

LENGTH: 752 words


The Senate unanimously approved yesterday an $81 billion bill to finance the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, provide relief to Asian tsunami victims and
construct a massive embassy in Baghdad.

The legislation now faces negotiations with the House that promise to be
prickly.

The core of the measure  --   about $75 billion for military forces in Iraq and
Afghanistan  --  has generated no controversy. That sum will push war and
reconstruction costs since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to more than $300
billion, according to the Congressional Research Service. The cost of the Iraq
war alone is approaching $200 billion.

But House and Senate negotiators will have to battle over several contentious
side issues, such as extraneous provisions on immigration that reveal very
different priorities. The Senate voted Tuesday night to expand the availability
of employment visas for skilled workers, such as nurses and engineers, and to
relax rules governing temporary visas for lower-skilled guest workers to allow
about 35,000 more into the country this year.

In contrast, the House last month took a get-tough approach to immigration on
its version of the war spending bill, voting to deny driver's licenses to
illegal immigrants, tighten rules for asylum seekers and bolster a fence along
the California-Mexico border.

Other points of contention will be the Bush administration's planned Baghdad
embassy, which the House refused to fund, planned cuts to weapons programs that
the Senate moved to block, and various home-state projects that have raised the
ire of fiscal conservatives.

In February, President Bush unveiled his $82 billion war request for the current
fiscal year, a request that came on top of $25 billion in war funding already
appropriated for 2005. The White House expects that request to push this year's
budget deficit to $427 billion, a record in dollar terms. So far, Bush has
gotten largely what he wanted.

But the House sliced the White House's $658 million embassy construction request
to $592 million and then voted to prohibit any money from being used for embassy
construction and security. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice appealed to
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), who included
$592 million for the embassy and beat back efforts by some conservatives to
strip it out.

The Senate did, however, challenge other administration priorities. Senators
blocked Pentagon plans to mothball the aircraft carrier USS John F. Kennedy and
to cut 63 next-generation C-130J transport planes. Those moves would have saved
more than $6 billion, as part of a $30 billion package of weapons savings over
six years.

The moves did not surprise defense analysts. Air Force and Army officials had
signaled that the C-130 cuts would jeopardize the military's ability to
transport its next generation of armored vehicles. When Defense Secretary Donald
H. Rumsfeld failed to discipline the service officials, lawmakers saw no reason
not to act in their parochial interests, said Michael E. O'Hanlon, a defense
budget analyst at the Brookings Institution. Measured against deficits of
hundreds of billions a year and continued tax cutting, the small savings from
weapons-systems cuts hardly seem worth the political price, he said.

"With all due respect to President Bush, who usually says what he believes and
believes what he says, his deficit reduction is a bit of a charade," O'Hanlon
said. "He has done nothing to encourage shared sacrifice."

The Senate also voted yesterday to add $213 million for procurement of armored
Humvees over protests from Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John W.
Warner (R-Va.) that the military had enough. Senators then boosted border
protection funds by $147 million. They also boosted funds for severely injured
soldiers and death benefits for soldiers killed in noncombat accidents.

Republican leaders have struggled to hold down the size of the spending measure.
One of their own, Senate Republican Conference Chairman Rick Santorum (Pa.),
inserted a federal loan guarantee to pave the way for the nation's first plant
to transform coal waste to diesel fuel and electricity, in Gilberton, Pa.
Another measure would facilitate construction of a high-speed marine cargo
terminal in Philadelphia.

"At a time when our soldiers are risking their lives in defense of freedom,
members of Congress should have the courage to take political risks to oppose
egregious and reckless spending," said Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.).

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              198 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 26, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Md. Cracks Down on Illegal Money-Transfer Companies;
Small Firms Send Cash Abroad for Immigrants

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1527 words


About half of the 120 Maryland-based money transmitters used by immigrants to
carry money abroad are operating without licenses and without the insurance that
the state mandates, according to regulators who are cracking down on those
operations.

"Immigrants that are here working are losing their money," said Susan Clayman,
an investigator for the financial regulation division of Maryland's Department
of Labor, Licensing and Regulation. The money is sometimes seized by authorities
when it is transported illegally by unlicensed companies. Clayman is a former
state trooper with a background in narcotics enforcement who was hired last year
to root out such unlicensed operations.

The small money transmitters are popular with immigrants, especially recent
arrivals, because people at these facilities speak their language, know their
culture and sometimes will deliver the money right to a family member's door.
They also are often cheaper than banks and run by immigrant entrepreneurs.

"I almost only use this company," said Juan Palma, 23, who stepped up to the
counter at Fito Express International Courier in Langley Park and peeled a
handful of $20 bills from his wallet to send to his family in Ipala, Guatemala.
Palma, a construction worker, lost money when customs agents seized one of
Fito's shipments, but he is willing to take the risk.

"We are used to doing things this way," said Angel Pineda, a painter from
Chiquimula, Guatemala. He said he began using Fito to send money to his wife in
Guatemala when he moved to Langley Park eight months ago.

A money-transfer company, unlike a bank, is not insured by the federal
government. To operate legally in Maryland, a transmitter must have a $150,000
surety bond, issued by an insurance company, which protects customers from
losses. It must also pay a $4,000 licensing fee renewable every two years.
Virginia and the District have similar laws.

In addition, money-transfer companies must register with the U.S. Department of
Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which investigates money
laundering. Investigators have focused more attention on unlicensed companies
after the 2001 terrorist attacks.

Unlike legal companies, which generally operate through electronic networks that
can track the flow of funds, unlicensed outlets sometimes carry cash across the
border or ship it in boxes. Because it is illegal to leave the United States
with $10,000 or more in cash without disclosing it, these funds are at risk of
being seized by authorities. The cash can also be stolen. Unlicensed firms do
not have insurance to cover those losses.

In the early 1990s, the District got tough on unlicensed financial institutions
after three Latino money-service firms that were operating illegally went under,
costing customers thousands of dollars.

Money transmitters have been increasingly cropping up in the suburbs, addressing
immigrants' preference to live outside of the District. As of 2000, Maryland's
immigrant population had surged to 518,315, or 10 percent of the population.
Virginia's was 570,279, or 8 percent, and the District's was 73,561, or 13
percent.

Maryland authorities say that at first these facilities operated under the radar
but that as their numbers have grown, more problems have emerged. Virginia has
not been tracking unlicensed companies because they have not been seen as a
major law enforcement problem, according to the State Corporation Commission's
Bureau of Financial Institutions.

Latinos alone sent an estimated $500 million last year from Maryland to Latin
America, the most per capita of any state, according to the Inter-American
Development Bank. Immigrants in the District sent $94 million, and in Virginia,
$586 million was sent to Latin America last year, according to the bank.

About 86 percent of the remittances to Latin America are sent by Western Union,
MoneyGram or mid-size money-transfer chains, according to a report by Manuel
Orozco, professor at Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of
International Migration. About 5 percent are sent using ATMs or other
traditional banking services, while 4 percent use facilities run by small
immigrant entrepreneurs.

Gustavo Torres, executive director of Casa de Maryland, a Latino immigrant
advocacy organization with offices in Takoma Park, said immigrants use small
transfer companies because the people who work there speak Spanish and the
music, television shows and people in the office feel familiar.

"We feel like we've come home when we come" to these facilities, Torres said.
"It does not mean those kinds of facilities should not have regulation. We know
there are abuses being committed against immigrants. We welcome regulation."

"Almost every ethnic group has their own set of money transmitters, [and] there
are more cases than we can keep up with," said Stephen M. Prozeralik, director
of enforcement for Maryland's division of financial regulation, which has begun
investigating more than a dozen money-service businesses, including companies
that send money to Central America, Africa and the Philippines.

Investigator Clayman finds the transfer companies by studying local Latino,
African and Filipino newspapers and telephone books, looking for words such as
envios dinero or pesos and balikbayan in foreign-language ads.

Langley Park, which straddles Prince George's and Montgomery counties, is home
to as many as two dozen of those money transmitters, according to Clayman.

"They pop up overnight," Clayman said while piloting her sport-utility vehicle
through the community, which has a large Hispanic population. She slowed to peer
in the windows of storefront operations, which may sell clothes and also
advertise themselves as international money transmitters. She has also found
unlicensed operations run out of apartments and the backs of pickup trucks or
set up in parking lots.

When Clayman finds a company advertising itself as a money transmitter, she
checks its name against the agency's list of licensees. If it is not on the
list, she then sends the company a letter. If the company does not agree to stop
sending money or seek a license, she sends a second, harsher letter. Sometimes
she also shows up at the companies and warns them to stop operating.

She is investigating 14 allegedly unlicensed transmitters and has served a
handful of orders telling companies to stop transmitting money.

Some companies have agreed to pay their fees and become licensed. Others become
agents of larger money-transfer companies, such as Western Union or MoneyGram,
that are already licensed in the state.

Fito Express's owner, Randolfo "Fito" España, said he learned of Maryland's
licensing requirement after receiving a letter from Prozeralik's office. From
Chiquimula, Guatemala, where he still lives, he has operations in four U.S.
cities.

"Most of our [U.S.] customers are undocumented, and they are afraid to use
banks," said España, who travels to Maryland every month.

Last year, customs authorities at Miami's airport seized two Fito Express
shipments of cash and money orders totaling $60,000. España said he took out a
loan on his home to make sure the $60,000 was delivered.

A few months ago, Maryland regulators warned Fito Express to get a license or
stop transmitting cash. España was shipping about $50,000 a week for about 250
customers. He charged $5 to $18 per shipment. Western Union and MoneyGram
charges more than $20 to transfer $200 to Guatemala.

To get a license, Fito Express would have needed to pay an annual surety bond
premium of about $4,500. It is unlikely a company that sends cash by courier
would get insured because the risk of financial loss is too high, according to
the Surety Association of America.

After evaluating the situation, España decided Fito Express would no longer send
money. Last week, he had a handwritten sign posted in the lobby, "No se recibe
envios de dinero. Solo recibe envios de paquete." (Money transfers are not
accepted here. Only packages are sent.)

It's not just Latino money-transfer operations that are drawing attention.
Across the state line in Northern Virginia, Maria Castro operates Manila
Forwarders Corp. Her company is also family owned. After moving to the area from
the Philippines in the 1980s, she and two siblings opened the store in Lorton,
where they fill boxes with soap, toiletries and used clothes that Filipinos
living in the region pay Manila Forwarders to ship via ocean freighter to their
families back home. About 10 years ago, she also began sending money.

Castro and her siblings often drive to the homes of their clients to pick up the
goods or money they want to send. They deposit the money in a U.S. bank account
and then transfer the funds to an account in Manila. From there it is
distributed.

Castro said she charges $10 for any amount of money transferred, compared with
$25 charged by larger competitors.

The licensing fee and surety bond she pays to be a legal operator in Virginia
cut into her profit, she said, but she knows she needs to follow the rules. "It
is a nuisance, but if we have to comply, then we have to comply."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              199 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Statistical Link Between the Holocaust and Darfur

SECTION: Editorial; A16

LENGTH: 313 words


The State Department's surprisingly low estimate of the death toll in Sudan  --
60,000 to 160,000, as compared with the 400,000 estimated by human rights groups
[editorial, April 24]  --  is disturbingly reminiscent of a controversy
involving the State Department during the Holocaust.

In November 1943 Assistant Secretary of State Breckinridge Long, who was in
charge of the Roosevelt administration's immigration policy, testified before
the House Foreign Affairs Committee concerning a congressional resolution urging
creation of a U.S. government agency to rescue refugees from Hitler.

Long, who was privately anti-Semitic as well as bitterly opposed to refugee
immigration, sought to undercut the rescue resolution. Trying to demonstrate
that a new rescue agency was unnecessary, Long testified that "we have taken
into this country since the beginning of the Hitler regime and the persecution
of the Jews, until today, approximately 580,000 refugees."

But the actual number of immigrants was not more than 250,000, and many of them
were not Jews. Long's wild exaggeration backfired. His testimony set off a
firestorm of criticism from the media, Jewish organizations and members of
Congress, giving important new momentum to the campaign for U.S. rescue action.

Today we know why the State Department in 1943 presented an implausibly high
estimate of Jewish immigration to the United States. By contrast, we do not know
what shaped the State Department's recent decision to embrace an implausibly low
estimate of the Sudan death toll. All we can say is that today, no less than in
1943, government officials have an obligation to present statistics that are not
tainted by political considerations.

Accuracy and a determination to stop genocide should be their only motives.

RAFAEL MEDOFF

Director

David S. Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies

Melrose Park, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              200 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 2, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A13

LENGTH: 423 words


TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras  --  Honduras arrested the country's top immigration
officer Sunday as part of an investigation into non-Hondurans being given
Honduran passports so they could more easily enter the United States.

Ramon Romero, director of immigration and foreign affairs, was arrested at his
home in Tegucigalpa on charges of abuse of authority.

AFRICA

*  ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast  --  Eight people were killed and about 30 were injured
during clashes that broke out Friday in the western Ivory Coast cocoa town of
Duekoue, the International Committee of the Red Cross said.

ASIA

*  KABUL, Afghanistan  --  The U.S. military released more than 80 suspected
Taliban militants from its detention centers in Afghanistan, officials said.

*  KATMANDU, Nepal  --  Thousands of protesters marched through Nepal's capital
demanding the restoration of democracy in one of the biggest demonstrations of
opposition strength since King Gyanendra seized absolute power in February.

*  SEOUL  --  President Roh Moo Hyun's ruling Uri Party suffered a crushing
defeat in by-elections, failing to win a single parliamentary seat and losing a
race even in Roh's home town, final results showed.

THE AMERICAS

*  HAVANA  --   During a May Day gathering, Pedro Ross, head of Cuba's communist
labor unions, accused President Bush of a "complicit silence" in the case of
Luis Posada Carriles, who is seeking asylum in the United States.

Ross demanded the immediate arrest of Posada and his extradition to Venezuela,
where he faces trial on charges of helping blow up a Cuban jetliner in 1976,
killing 73 people. Posada denies involvement.

*  PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti  --  Yvon Neptune, the former prime minister under
ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, is flying into exile in the neighboring
Dominican Republic after months in detention, a Western diplomat and a radio
station reported.

*  TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras  --  Honduran President Ricardo Maduro was taken to a
hospital with minor injuries after a small plane he was in went down in the
Caribbean Sea.

THE MIDDLE EAST

*  JERUSALEM  --  Israeli troops killed a Palestinian militant in a West Bank
clash on Monday, Israel's Army Radio reported.

It said the Islamic Jihad gunman was shot dead in the village of Sida near
Tulkarm. On Sunday, the army said it captured an Islamic Jihad member who had
planned to carry out a suicide bombing.

*  CAIRO  --  Egyptian police have detained 200 people for questioning in two
attacks on foreign tourists in Cairo on Saturday.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              201 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 3, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

British Labor Party Appears Vulnerable on Immigration;
Voters Favor Conservatives on Key Issue in Thursday's Vote

BYLINE: Dan Balz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 1166 words

DATELINE: DOVER, England May 2


Eight years ago, Gary Glover was part of the electoral tide that swept British
Prime Minister Tony Blair and his Labor Party government into power after 18
years in the wilderness, but on Thursday he plans to cast his vote with the
Conservative Party.

For Glover, the big issue is immigration, which he and many other Britons
contend is out of control. "British people are homeless, and immigrants are
living better and better," he said Monday morning as he worked to repair a gas
main along one of Dover's main thoroughfares.

The reality is more complex, but if there is anything that could alter the
eventual margin in an election in which Blair and Labor appear headed for
another comfortable majority in Parliament, it is the twin issues of immigration
and asylum seekers. According to every opinion poll, it is one of the top three
or four issues in the campaign and the only one on which voters trust the
Conservatives, known as the Tories, far more than they trust Labor.

The wave of foreigners that has arrived in Britain in the eight years since
Labor came to power triggers a variety of emotions among the British electorate,
including resentment that newcomers get benefits that longtime citizens do not,
and gives rise to the more touchy subjects of race and cultural identity.

The power of the issue is reminiscent of what California experienced during the
economic downturn of the 1990s. But Labor Party strategists say the emotions
expressed in focus groups in Britain are, if anything, even more raw and
resentful than they are in the United States and grow out of a culture in which
immigration has not been as central to national identity.

Labor activists view the Conservatives as trying to play the race card and say
the slogan that the Conservatives used to kick off their campaign  --  "Are you
thinking what we're thinking?"  --  encouraged racial polarization. One
Conservative candidate for Parliament, Bob Spink, ran a local advertisement that
included the line, "What bit of 'send them back' don't you understand, Mr.
Blair?"

But the party's leader, Michael Howard, denies Labor's charges and says Blair
and his party are trying to stifle an important debate by tarring the opposition
rather than addressing an issue that rankles many voters. At the local level,
Conservative candidates say the people don't buy Labor's criticism of the Tory
campaign or Labor's claims that it has the situation under control.

"I don't need to mention asylum or immigration locally," Conservative candidate
Paul Watkins said Monday afternoon as he took a break from campaigning. "Local
people raise it on the doorstep."

The district where he is challenging the Labor incumbent includes this seacoast
city southeast of London that is best known for its celebrated white cliffs. As
the entryway to Britain for many foreigners stepping off ferries, it has been
touched directly by the issue of immigration.

Brian Chazzell, who runs a small furniture store in Dover, said he plans to vote
against the two major parties because both are mired in what he sees as a
useless debate about Iraq. But he had strong opinions about the foreign influx.

"We're a little island and we're still trying to be the great empire trying to
help out every Tom, Dick and Harry," he said. "The island will sink. You can
only open the door so long before the house is full. . . . Mr. Howard is
correct. It is about time we spoke about how many people we can hold."

From 1997 to 2002, net migration to Britain topped 1.1 million people, about
double what it had been over the previous five years, according to government
statistics. Both sides agree that at some time during this period, Britain lost
control of its borders. The debate now is over whether the Labor government has
moved effectively to put in place a more rational system for dealing with the
wave of newcomers.

Asylum seekers set off a surge of resentment in the late 1990s, with much of it
centered in Dover. Conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, the Middle East, Africa
and elsewhere brought exiles to Britain's shores seeking a new home, quickly
overwhelming the government's capacity to deal with them.

Many piled into Dover to await processing, which sometimes took months or years.
Often the government gave them housing and financial assistance. In Dover,
roving groups of young male asylum seekers frightened the locals, and in the
summer of 1999, street unrest erupted.

Gwyn Prosser, the Labor member of Parliament from Dover, said the problem caught
the government by surprise, but over the following two years, Labor instituted
changes to the system that include stopping potential asylum seekers in France
for initial processing, along with measures to speed up the decision-making
process.

Statistics from the Home Office show that applications for asylum reached 84,000
in 2002 but by last year had fallen to 34,000, a decline attributed both to a
falloff in nearby conflicts and to tighter rules for application. Prosser and
his rival, Watkins, agree that local tensions over asylum seekers have
diminished since 2001, although they differ on how serious the problem remains.
Many citizens see no change.

While the number of applications has decreased, immigration continues to
increase. With the healthiest major economy in Europe, Britain has become a
magnet for workers in other countries.

Of late, Poles, Latvians, Lithuanians and others have arrived to fill low-wage
or menial jobs in London and other parts of Britain. The numbers, although small
by U.S. standards, are about 50 percent above the levels of the late 1990s.
Labor has been trying to institute a more rational system for deciding who can
stay.

Immigration and asylum are also issues in the campaign in Enfield, a north
London suburb. Minorities make up only about 9 percent of the district's
population, but the area is changing steadily. Joan Ryan, the Labor member of
Parliament in Enfield, hears about that on the campaign trail. "Enfield people
are very nice; they're good people," she said. "But change is difficult."

She contends that the Tories are making rational debate impossible by playing on
racial and cultural fears. Her opponent, Nick de Bois, disagrees. "People in
Enfield felt for years they could not talk sensibly about this issue without
being accused of being racists," he said. "I could point you to many first- and
second-generation immigrations of Asian or African background who feel as
strongly about this issue as I do."

Blair came to Dover recently to deliver a tough speech on immigration and asylum
seekers, one that the polls show helped to reduce the Conservatives' advantage
on the issue. But Labor remains on the defensive, nervous about Thursday's
balloting. People no longer talk about asylum seekers in the pubs the way they
did a few years ago, but Watkins and Prosser said it remains a powerful issue.
"People's memories are long," Watkins said. Added Prosser, "It's been burned
into their psyche."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              202 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                               May 6, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

In Spite of Prosecutors, Scholar May Be Deported

BYLINE: Leef Smith, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 701 words


U.S. immigration officials are moving forward with the deportation of a former
American University researcher who pleaded guilty to selling sensitive
technology to the Chinese government, despite a request by federal prosecutors
that she be allowed to stay.

It is the latest twist in the case of Gao Zhan, 43, who was imprisoned by
Chinese authorities on spy charges in 2001, then released after U.S. authorities
--  including then-Secretary of State Colin L. Powell  --  intervened on her
behalf. Later, she was convicted in this country of illegally selling dozens of
microprocessors to the Chinese government.

Immigration officials took Gao into custody April 5, a day before she was to
have completed a seven-month federal sentence. Her term was reduced
substantially after prosecutors praised her cooperation in similar cases and
called for leniency.

Made aware of the pending deportation proceedings against Gao, who is not a U.S.
citizen, Paul J. McNulty, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia,
wrote to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in January, asking the agency
to reconsider.

"While this recommendation is expressly not binding on ICE, we nevertheless
entreat you to follow it in light of the cooperation provided by [Gao], which we
found to be of significant and identifiable value to the government," McNulty
wrote.

Now that Gao could be returned to China, where she faces a 10-year prison term,
her husband, Xue Donghua, has contacted journalists and made a public plea for
support.

"She was expected to be released and come home and be reunited with her children
and then . . . all of sudden she's in prison again," said Xue, 41, of Herndon.
"Now they want to deport her. . . . I'm so worried about her."

The U.S. attorney's office declined to comment yesterday.

Gao's attorney, Ladan Mirbagheri-Smith, said that her client lost credibility
and public support after her conviction and that immigration officials are
taking advantage of the situation in an effort to deport her.

"They're claiming she's a national security risk," Mirbagheri-Smith said. "But
why would the U.S. attorney's office recommend she not be deported if she's a
national security risk?"

Federal law mandates that foreign nationals convicted of serious felonies be
removed from the United States upon the completion of their prison sentences.

Yesterday, ICE spokesman Dean Boyd said the agency had begun deportation
proceedings against Gao in accordance with federal law.

"Throughout this process, ICE has consulted closely with the U.S. Attorney for
the Eastern District of Virginia," Boyd said in a statement, adding that the
agency's authority to deport Gao has been upheld by a federal judge. Last
November, Gao admitted that she made more than $539,000 selling 80
microprocessors to a procurement agency of the Chinese government, and she
pleaded guilty to one count each of illegal arms export and tax fraud.

Prosecutors said Gao had obtained the microprocessors under false pretenses by
saying she would use them to do research for a Northern Virginia university.
Because of the microprocessors' potential military use, Gao would have needed a
license to export them legally to China.

At the time of her plea, her attorney said Gao thought the microprocessors would
be used in civilian aircraft. The government said the equipment could be used in
weapons systems.

Gao's husband, who is a U.S. citizen, also has run into legal problems and has
pleaded guilty to a tax charge. His one-year sentence was put off while his wife
was in prison. But he is to report May 23 to a federal prison in North Carolina.
He said yesterday that his attorney is petitioning the court for more time to
sort out his family's affairs.

Gao and Xue have three children, ages 1, 2 and 9. He said that his parents, who
live with him in Herndon, neither drive nor speak English and that he does not
know who will care for his children.

"I want people to have some sympathy for our children," Xue said. "If this
country is merciful and forgiving, they should know three little children are
innocent and their mom shouldn't be taken away, especially if she's already
served her time."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              203 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The Man Who Changed L.A.

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 845 words


When Miguel Contreras became leader of the Los Angeles labor movement back in
1996, he inherited a set of time-honored axioms about life and politics under
the Southern California sun.

The first was that nobody actually worked in campaigns  --  walking precincts,
making phone calls. The state and the city were too big for anyone to mount a
significant field operation. Campaigns consisted of fundraising and advertising:
money in, message out, no activists need apply. The second was that it would
take years, perhaps decades, for the wave of Latino immigrants sweeping the
state to have an impact on its politics. Republican governor Pete Wilson's
Proposition 187 two years earlier, which denied public services to undocumented
immigrants, may have riled the Latino community, but the payback, if any, would
be a long time coming. And the third was that the labor movement, in Los Angeles
as everywhere else, was shuffling off to Jurassic Park  --  a dinosaur incapable
of saving itself, much less affecting its environment.

None of this came as news to Miguel, but it somehow never occurred to him that
these were realities set in stone. The son of immigrant farmworkers, he had gone
to work at 17 for Cesar Chavez's union, where he learned that every so often
improbable social transformations were all in a day's, or a decade's, work.
Miguel had a decade  --  not even, just nine years  --  to transform Los Angeles
when he died last Friday, at age 52, of a sudden heart attack. The smog and the
traffic remain unchanged, but politically the place is unrecognizable.

Chiefly by mobilizing the city's immigrant workforce, Contreras transformed L.A.
into a liberal stronghold in which the labor movement is a dominant force. In a
city whose deepest belief is in the makeover, Contreras was the ultimate
nip-and-tuck man, remolding the onetime home of the open shop into a city where
workers have some real political power.

He began, modestly enough, in 1977 with a special state legislative election in
an immigrant-heavy district near downtown. The Latino political establishment
had anointed its candidate, but Contreras backed an outsider, a dynamic
immigrants' rights activist and former leader of a local union, and persuaded
hundreds of activists from the janitors' and hotel workers' locals  --
themselves chiefly immigrants  --  to pound the pavement on his behalf. They
knocked on the doors not only of fellow union members but also of new immigrant
voters whom nobody but Contreras thought would turn out in a special election.
They did turn out, of course, and Contreras found himself not just with a
victory but also with a formula for remaking L.A. And remake it he did.

Over the years, hundreds, and at times thousands, of union activists flooded
into congressional, legislative and council districts, electing liberals in
Democratic primaries and Democrats of all stripes in the swing districts on the
county's peripheries. Such long-established Republican bastions as Pasadena
began electing Democrats. By 2000 L.A. County  --  home to 30 percent of
California voters  --  voted for Al Gore and Dianne Feinstein at the identical
percentage that the San Francisco Bay Area did. Ultimately, it was demographics
that were driving California's transformation from the home of Richard Nixon and
Ronald Reagan to the bluest of blue states. But by making the new-model labor
movement the vehicle of mobilization for the state's new Latino voters,
Contreras put that transformation on fast-forward.

The politics wasn't an end in itself. During their epochal strike in 2000, the
city's janitors were accompanied at every demonstration, and even at the
bargaining table, by elected officials cheering them on. The fact that the
strike had been preceded by a primary election in which labor had ousted Marty
Martinez, a lackluster Democratic congressman, in favor of pro-labor firebrand
Hilda Solis had not been lost on L.A.'s political class. Similarly, the
unionization of 74,000 Los Angeles home care workers in 1999 resulted from the
election of public officials willing to write ordinances enabling those workers
to organize. And the living-wage ordinances enacted by cities throughout
Southern California are the direct consequence of labor's newfound clout.

Throughout all this, Contreras was the happiest of political warriors, suffused
with sheer love of the game, but always subordinating it to his long-range
vision for L.A.'s transformation. He knew all too well that racial divisions
could thwart the construction of a progressive majority, and he took special
pride in labor's role in electing younger African American and Latino pols who
eschewed the nationalist impulse.

On Tuesday Los Angeles will elect a mayor, and the polls show Antonio
Villaraigosa  --  a liberal with a background in labor  --  in the lead. The
tragedy is that the man who changed L.A. into a city that could elect someone
like Villaraigosa will not be there to see it, or to help steer the city through
incarnations yet to come.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              204 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 16, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Reform and Red Herrings

BYLINE: Sebastian Mallaby

SECTION: Editorial; A17

LENGTH: 889 words


Last week, in a triumph of hope over experience, Sens. John McCain and Teddy
Kennedy introduced an immigration bill. This will now be engulfed by all the
usual rhetoric. "America is a Land of Immigrants"  vs. "the English language is
at risk." "Immigrants are criminals"  vs. "forcing immigrants to remain illegal
is the real source of crime." But consider the economic question. Will letting
in those foreigners harm American workers?

Start by knocking down the dumb arguments on both sides. It's implausible to
claim that poor immigrants generally do jobs that Americans won't do. Mexicans
mow all the lawns in Southern California, but it doesn't follow that largely
immigrant-free suburbs in Pennsylvania are choked with waist-high grass.
According to the 2000 Census, 82 percent of New York  taxi drivers are
foreign-born. But there are still cabs to be hailed in Detroit and Cincinnati,
where more than 90 percent of taxi drivers are U.S.-born.

Then there's the opposite dumb argument: that immigrants push unemployment up.
Setting aside swings in the business cycle, the level of unemployment in an
economy is determined by the flexibility of the labor force, not by how many
people are in it and certainly not by what passports they hold. Every economy
has something called the NAIRU  --  the non-accelerating-inflation rate of
unemployment  --  and the central bank's job is to keep the monetary taps open
until the jobless rate falls to that level. If the rate falls below the NAIRU,
the shortage of workers will push wages up faster than output. The resulting
inflation will force the central bank to jack up interest rates, slowing the
economy and halting job growth.

So if you're worried about unemployment, you have to worry about the NAIRU  --
about how you create a workforce that's flexible and motivated, so  companies
can find people to hire at sustainable wages even when unemployment is quite
low. A willingness to relocate, retrain and reinvent oneself makes for a lower
NAIRU; the growth of temp agencies, which give firms an efficient way of finding
workers, has reduced the NAIRU, too. Immigrants, who tend to be extremely
motivated, probably drive down the overall sustainable unemployment rate. In
theory, if their presence somehow renders native-born workers less motivated,
immigrants could simultaneously increase unemployment in the native-born section
of the workforce. But attempts to measure this demoralization suggest that it is
minimal.

The serious economic question is not what immigration does to unemployment but
what it does to wages, particularly for poor workers. According to the census of
1970, 63 percent of immigrants in the United States had been born in Europe or
Canada and were generally well educated. By 2000, however, 48 percent had been
born in Mexico, Central America or the Caribbean, and more than one-third of all
immigrants had less than a high school education. While immigrants  counted for
only 13 percent of the working-age population in 2000, they made up over half of
those with less than  eight years of schooling.

Logic suggests that if you increase the supply of  certain  workers, their wages
will go down. Harvard's George Borjas, one of the nation's top immigration
economists, has found that this logic holds in practice. By grouping workers
according to education and experience and measuring rates of immigration and
wage trends in each category, he concludes that between 1980 and 2000
immigration reduced the average annual earnings of U.S.-born college graduates
by 3.6 percent and high school graduates by 2 percent. But natives without high
school education were hit harder: Their wages were reduced  7.4 percent compared
to what they would have been without immigration.

That's not the end of the story, however. Berkeley's David Card, another top
authority, employs a different statistical technique and gets the opposite
result. He starts from the fact that different cities experience different rates
of immigration, and then he looks to see whether cities with lots of low-skilled
immigrants have lower wages for laborers. He finds no wage effect whatsoever.
This could be because demand for these workers increases with the supply of
them: A gardening company with five Mexican workers armed with fancy electric
hedge-trimmers would just as soon hire eight workers and give them manual shears
if eight workers  were available.

This academic debate is not conclusive. Borjas argues that Card's method is
flawed because an influx of immigrants into one city drives U.S.-born workers to
move elsewhere, so the downward pressure on wages can  be captured only in
nationwide numbers. This may be right for college graduates, who operate in a
national labor market. But Card may have the upper hand when it comes to
understanding low-wage workers. His latest paper shows that cities with high
rates of unskilled immigration have  reported no offsetting shrinkage in the
number of native-born laborers.

What to conclude from this? Immigration does not cause unemployment; the wage
effects may well be small. And if anyone can make a conclusive argument about
some other consequence of immigration, Congress might as well listen. The debate
over wages is not a slam-dunk for either side. It should not determine this
issue.

mallabys@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              205 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 17, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Today in Congress

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 274 words


SENATE

Meets at 9:45 a.m.

Committees:

Banking  --  10 a.m. Credit card marketing. 538 Dirksen Bldg.

Commerce  --  10 a.m. Port security. 253 Russell Bldg.

Energy  --  9:30 a.m. Energy legislation. 366 Dirksen.

Environment  --  9:30 a.m. Nuclear safety subc. Nuclear security. S-407 Capitol.

Foreign Relations  --  9:30 a.m. Commission for Africa report. 419 Dirksen.

Health  --  10 a.m. Aging subc. Older Americans Act. 430 Dirksen.

Governmental Affairs  --  2 p.m. Gov. information subc. Inpatient survey. 342
Dirksen.

Homeland Security  --  9:30 a.m. Investigations subc. Oil-for-food. 106 Dirksen.

Intelligence  --  2:30 p.m. Closed. 219 Hart Bldg.

Judiciary  --  2:30 p.m. Immigration subc. Immigration reform. 226 Dirksen.

HOUSE

Meets at 9 a.m.

Committees:

Energy  --  2 p.m. Employer-employee relations subc. Rewarding best medical
care. 2175 Rayburn Bldg.

Energy  --  9:30 a.m. Oversight subc. Drug testing. 2123 Rayburn.

Education  --  10 a.m. High school reform. 2175 Rayburn.

Financial Services  --  10 a.m. Markup. 2128 Rayburn.

Government Reform  --  1:30 p.m. Federal workforce subc. Markup. 2154 Rayburn.

Government Reform  --  10 a.m. International relations subc. Middle Eastern
democracy. 2154 Rayburn.

Judiciary  --  10 a.m. Intellectual property subc. China. 2141 Rayburn.

Judiciary  --  Noon. Intellectual property subc. Russia. 2141 Rayburn.

Ways and Means  --  2 p.m. Social Security subc. Social Security. B-318 Rayburn.

Ways and Means  --  10 a.m. Trade subc. WTO. 1100 Longworth Bldg.

Workforce  --  2 p.m. Employer-employee relations subc. Employer-sponsored
health care. 2175 Rayburn.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              206 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 19, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

In L.A., a Pol for a Polyglot City

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: Editorial; A27

LENGTH: 832 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The politics of the great American cities are ever the politics of ethnic
succession and recombination. As the focal points for the great waves of
immigration, foreign and domestic, that continually reshape the nation, it's our
cities where races historically collide, and coalesce.

Today, when we think of Fiorello La Guardia sweeping to power in New York's 1933
mayoral contest, with his inimitable municipal version of the New Deal, we see
his victory as an unalloyed progressive triumph. True enough, his victory was a
backlash against the rule of Tammany Democrats, but only some La Guardia voters
rejected Tammany because it was a machine. More rejected it because it was a
disproportionately Irish machine that failed to put many Italians and Jews on
the city payroll. La Guardia was the good-government candidate par excellence,
but, fluent in both Italian and Yiddish, he also forged a coalition of New
York's newer immigrants, its ethnic outs.

For the past quarter-century, America's cities have been remade by our third
great wave of immigration, this one predominantly from Mexico and Central
America. But not until Tuesday, when Antonio Villaraigosa ousted incumbent Jim
Hahn by a stunning 17-point margin to become mayor of Los Angeles, did a Latino
politician put together a majority coalition in a mega-city where Latinos are a
sizable bloc  --  but nowhere near sizable enough to elect a mayor by
themselves. In the 2000 Census, Latinos constituted fully 47 percent of L.A.
residents, but so many of them were noncitizens or new citizens that as recently
as the late '90s, they amounted to just 15 percent of the electorate.

By Tuesday, that figure had grown to 25 percent  --  a big increase, but hardly
big enough to elect any but a gifted coalition builder, which Villaraigosa  --
fluent in Spanish, with a smattering of Yiddish  --  most assuredly is. For all
his charisma and feel for urban complexity, however, he came up short four years
ago in his first race against Hahn for mayor. He was unable to square a circle
--  to construct a left-to-center majority with virtually no support from the
city's African American community. One problem was that Hahn, who's white, was
the surrogate black candidate for reasons chiefly of genetics: His father was
the legendary Kenny Hahn, who for 40 years as a county supervisor had been a
pioneering advocate of civil rights. Villaraigosa's other problem was dicier
still: the racial tensions between the black and Latino communities.

Some of those tensions were grounded in economic conflicts. In the mid-'80s, for
instance, Los Angeles had a heavily black unionized janitorial workforce in its
high-rises, until the building owners replaced them with refugees from Central
America's civil wars and Mexico's debt crisis, at a 60 percent cut in pay. Other
tensions were more directly political, as districts with long-standing black
majorities turned majority-Latino between the mid-'80s and late '90s.

It should have come as no surprise, then, when L.A.'s African American voters
narrowly supported Pete Wilson's Proposition 187 in 1994, which would have
curtailed public services to undocumented immigrants had the courts not struck
it down. Nor that black voters backed Hahn over Villaraigosa in 2001 by an 80
percent to 20 percent margin.

But like La Guardia, Villaraigosa is a pol for a polyglot city. From his teens,
when he helped form the Black Student Union  at his overwhelmingly Latino high
school, to his years working the African American community as a union staffer,
he's been the very model of the anti-nationalist urbanite. The causes he
championed while speaker of the California Assembly  --  massive school and
parks bond measures, workers' rights  --  were broad and rooted more in the
calculus of class than race.

Accordingly, when Hahn stumbled in the black community  --  on the most
parochial of issues, his well-grounded refusal to renew the contract of Bernard
Parks, the city's African American police chief  --  Villaraigosa was there to
pick up the pieces. On Tuesday, according to the Los Angeles Times exit poll, he
won 48 percent of the black vote (not to mention 84 percent of the Latino vote
and 50 percent of the white). He carried every quadrant of this famously
fractious city.

Villaraigosa's victory will not magically  dispel the city's racial rifts, the
ethnic gang rivalries, the fights at local high schools. It will not narrow the
vast economic inequality that plagues contemporary  U.S. cities, though
Villaraigosa has supported linking development to living-wage jobs. But the
coalition he's composed, the record he's amassed, and the charisma and energy
he's so abundantly displayed now make Los Angeles ground zero for liberal
innovation at a time of right-wing domination nearly everyplace else. It's a
star turn that's new not just for Villaraigosa, but also for the city he has now
so adeptly reassembled as a showcase for urban progressivism.

meyersonh@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              207 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 20, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Charges Cuban Exile With Illegal Entry;
Anti-Castro Militant Could Face Terrorism Charges in Venezuela

BYLINE: John Mintz, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 852 words


The U.S. government charged aging Cuban militant Luis Posada Carriles yesterday
with entering the United States illegally, as the Justice Department mulls
whether to deport the former CIA-trained operative to Venezuela, which wants to
try him on terrorism charges.

The case presents a dilemma for American officials, because Posada, a
77-year-old anti-Castro Cuban, has been charged by Venezuela with blowing up a
Cuban airliner in 1976, killing 73 people. But Caracas is no friend to U.S.
officials, who see in Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez a close friend to
Washington's historic adversary Fidel Castro.

U.S. officials detained Posada on Tuesday in Miami after he publicly surfaced
for interviews with local reporters. He was whisked away by Black Hawk
helicopter to an Air Force base south of Miami, and then to a secure immigration
facility in El Paso, where he faces a hearing before an immigration judge on
June 13.

Yesterday, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) notified Posada, who has
acknowledged slipping into this country by way of Mexico in March, that he is in
the United States illegally, and that it plans to hold him without bond. If he
wants, Posada can contest his detention and the no-bond order in a proceeding
before the June hearing.

Meanwhile, Posada's attorney, Eduardo Soto, has told reporters that he is
thinking about refiling an asylum request with the U.S. government on the
grounds that Posada would face persecution if deported, according to wire
reports. Soto had filed an asylum claim earlier this year and then withdrew it
around the time Posada resurfaced.

This raises the prospect of three separate legal proceedings in the case, each
of which might involve legal wrangling that could last months or even years  --
the administrative immigration charge filed yesterday, the extradition request
by Venezuela and the asylum request.

"This is only the beginning of a lot of litigation that could last a long, long
time," said a U.S. official involved in the process. "There's no end to this in
sight anytime soon."

The Posada case could raise questions about the U.S. commitment to fighting
terrorism, international affairs experts said. The Bush administration has said
the terrorism battle is its highest priority.

But cracking down on Posada could be complicated because elements of the U.S.
government worked closely for years with him and his allies in planning
opposition to Castro and anti-American rebels in Central America. Moreover, he
is admired by many politically potent Cuban Americans in South Florida.

Posada has denied involvement in the terrorist attack on the Cubana airline jet
that blew up over Barbados. Most of the 73 passengers and crew members were
Cuban and Venezuelan. He was acquitted after two trials in Venezuela and then
escaped from a jail there in 1985 while he waited for an appeal by prosecutors.
He also has been accused of involvement in a series of bombings in Cuba in 1997,
one of which killed an Italian citizen.

"We can't pick and choose which terrorist to punish or else the credibility of
policy goes down the toilet," said Larry C. Johnson, a former CIA and State
Department counterterrorism official, who said Washington cannot allow Posada to
avoid prosecution on the bombing charges. "We need to have a consistent stand on
terrorism."

"This is a dilemma for U.S. officials of their own making," said Wayne Smith, a
longtime critic of U.S. policy toward Havana and a former U.S. diplomat.

Smith said that in Posada's case Washington is under the same pressures it faced
in the case of Orlando Bosch, a longtime anti-Castro ally of Posada's who served
11 years in a Venezuelan prison for masterminding the 1976 air attack. He
entered the United States in 1988 and, despite U.S. officials' belief that he
took part in the bombing and even though Justice Department officials tried to
deport him, he was released from jail in 1990 and allowed to remain in this
country. Florida Republicans with close ties to the anti-Castro community in
Miami had heavily lobbied aides to President George H.W. Bush to allow Bosch to
remain.

"What's changed since then is 9/11, and we're in an all-out war on terrorism,"
said Smith, who in the 1970s headed the U.S. interest section in Havana and now
is a Cuba expert at the Center for International Policy, a think tank. "It would
be embarrassing for this Bush administration to treat Posada the way the earlier
one treated Bosch. . . . Posada has never renounced terrorism, or expressed any
regret for what he's done. He's said there were no innocent people on that
plane."

On Tuesday, ICE seemed to suggest in a statement that it is unlikely to deport
Posada to Cuba or Venezuela. "As a matter of immigration law and policy," the
statement said, "ICE does not generally remove people to Cuba, nor does ICE
generally remove people to countries believed to be acting on Cuba's behalf."

Venezuelan leader Chavez is one of Castro's closest allies on the international
scene, and he has pursued a stridently anti-Washington policy.

Researcher Julie Tate contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              208 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 21, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A20

LENGTH: 532 words


DETROIT  --  A federal judge ordered a jailed Kurdish man released on bail while
he appeals his deportation to Turkey, questioning the government's motives in
bringing terrorism charges against a "model immigrant."

U.S. District Judge Avern Cohn set bail at $50,000 for Ibrahim Parlak, 43, but
postponed the release order for 10 days so the government could appeal. A
government spokesman said Friday that immigration officials were reviewing their
options.

The government said Parlak, who has been jailed since last July, had ties to the
Kurdish Workers' Party, which the State Department classified as a terrorist
group in 1997. His supporters said that he was never involved in violence and
that he could face reprisals in Turkey.

*  SANTA FE, N.M.  --  The state Capitol was evacuated after the office of Gov.
Bill Richardson (D) received a package containing an unknown white powder and a
threatening letter. The FBI and an epidemiologist were called to aid the
investigation.

*  BOSTON  --  Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney (R) signed a bill repealing a
330-year-old law that barred Indians from setting foot in Boston. The 1675 law,
adopted when settlers were at war with the Massachusetts Bay Colony's tribes,
had not been enforced for centuries but was still a source of anger for Indians.

*  PONCHATOULA, La.  --  Louis Lamonica, the pastor of Hosanna Church, described
by authorities as "cultlike," was arrested along with his wife, a sheriff's
deputy and five other church members in an investigation of possible sexual
abuse of up to two dozen children, ranging in age from infants to teenagers. The
roundup came after a woman called sheriff's deputies five weeks ago from
Columbus, Ohio, to say she had fled Louisiana out of fear for her child,
authorities said. She and her husband were among those arrested.

*  PROVIDENCE, R.I.  --  Defense lawyer Joseph Bevilacqua Jr., 55, pleaded
guilty to contempt and perjury for leaking an FBI surveillance video to
television  reporter Jim Taricani, who served four months under house arrest for
refusing to identify his source. Bevilacqua, who could be sentenced to five
years in prison for perjury, was disbarred shortly after the plea. The video
showed a mayoral aide taking a bribe and was part of a corruption investigation
that eventually sent Mayor Vincent "Buddy" Cianci Jr. and the aide to prison.

*  EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE, Fla.  --  Air Force Maj. Gregory McMillion, 44, was
sentenced to a year in prison and dismissed from service for illegally shipping
home from Iraq a small arsenal of automatic weapons and hundreds of other
souvenirs. The maintenance officer could have been sentenced to eight years
behind bars for taking booty that included a statue looted from an Iraqi museum,
about 30 automatic rifles, six rocket-propelled grenade launchers, 1,183 Iraqi
army berets, more than 600 pairs of socks and eight full uniforms.

*  BROWNSTOWN, Ind.  --  Prosecutors dropped murder charges against Charles
Hickman, 21, who confessed to killing Katie Collman, 10, in January and charged
Anthony Stockelman, 38, with murder and criminal confinement. Stockelman had
been accused of molesting the girl.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              209 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              May 29, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Appalachia Arrives at Cultural Crossroads;
Recent Hispanic Immigrants Begin To Diversify Largely White Communities

BYLINE: Vicki Smith, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 1395 words

DATELINE: CHARLES TOWN, W.Va.


--  Rosie Flores sells Spanish cookies, Mexican spices and international calling
cards at Rincon Latino. Kindness comes free.

When a quiet customer with the sniffles heads for the door, Flores stops him,
presses a bag of chamomile into his hand and tells him to boil it for tea.

"It will make you feel better," she says in Spanish, shaking her head as he
reaches for his pocket. "No, no charge."

For six months, Rincon Latino has flourished amid the antique shops, real estate
offices and historic homes of Washington Street, the main avenue in a West
Virginia town where times have begun to change.

Although their numbers remain small, Hispanics are now streaming into
historically homogeneous, overwhelmingly white West Virginia and other parts of
northern Appalachia, including western Pennsylvania, southern New York and Ohio.

Economic opportunity here  --  in apple orchards, poultry plants, horse farms
and construction  --  is starting to translate to diversity.

The migration happened years ago in the nation's urban centers and southern
states, but it has been slower to reach this part of the country. When Flores
arrived three years ago from Miami with her jockey husband and teenage son, she
saw needs that were not being met.

So Rincon Latino has become more than a store.

Flores collects donations for the poor. She lays out business cards for
Spanish-speaking real estate agents. Her doors and windows bear fliers for
churches and would-be employers. Sometimes, she takes people who cannot speak
English to doctors' appointments and the Division of Motor Vehicles.

"Get ready," she says, the afternoon sun filtering through a polyester portrait
of Our Lady of Guadalupe. "In two more years, you will have a lot of Hispanics
here."

Although Hispanics have surpassed blacks as the largest minority group
nationwide, that is not the case in West Virginia and the other 12 states that
make up Appalachia, a 200,000-square-mile region stretching from southern New
York to northern Mississippi.

A September 2004 study by the Population Reference Bureau found that in this
region, blacks still outnumber Hispanics, although Hispanics have fueled the
growth since the 1990s.

Nearly half of Appalachia's 321,000 new residents since 2000 are minority, about
80,000 of them Hispanics. And because so many are children or working-age
adults, the study done for the Appalachian Regional Commission concluded that
racial and ethnic diversity will grow.

Without minority growth, West Virginia and other states would have lost
population between 1990 and 2000: The report found 211,000 new minority
residents offset the loss of 47,000 whites in northern Appalachia.

Jeffrey S. Passel, senior research associate with the Pew Hispanic Center in
Washington says many southeastern states had virtually no immigrants 15 or 20
years ago.

But once the arrival of immigrants begins, he says, "it draws on immigrants in
other areas in the U.S. and eventually sets up strings in migration, usually
back to Mexico."

Alicia Moreno was the only Hispanic student at Jefferson High School less than a
decade ago.

"Today if you go into the schools, our brothers and sisters of Latino descent
are everywhere," she says.

School district officials agree: The number of children enrolled in English as a
second language classes has surged from fewer than two dozen in 2000 to almost
260 at the start of the current school year. Nearly 80 percent of them are
Hispanic.

"The word of mouth is getting out that there are jobs here," says Moreno, now
26, who works for Telamon Corp. assisting migrant workers who begin to arrive in
the state's Eastern Panhandle this time each year.

Moreno got her job because she was bilingual, and she worries about adults who
do not learn English. That is part of the reason for the formation of the
Eastern Panhandle Hispanic Advocacy Coalition, a new group determined to help
educate the newest residents and improve their quality of life. In December, the
first Hispanic Festival drew more than 400 people.

"It's very exciting, and now that I'm more involved, I want to see more Hispanic
businesses," says Veronica Hall, a Martinsburg insurance agent and native
Argentine who caters to Spanish-speaking clients. "I want to see them succeed
and see people be happy."

Real estate companies and banks have also started reaching out, advertising for
bilingual employees.

The Roman Catholic Diocese of Wheeling-Charleston launched a full-time Hispanic
ministry. Though the 2000 Census found about 12,300 Hispanics in West Virginia,
the church, which surveyed parishes in February, believes that figure is now at
least 16,000.

"People who come here as migrants start staying," says the Rev. Carl Crump, who
works with the diocese's Ministry for Hispanics. "They have a little bit of
opportunity. They speak a little bit of English."

The church, he says, sometimes pairs Hispanics with English-speaking volunteer
partners, who help with social services and other needs. "That not only gives
them a friendship with an Anglo, but helps meld them into the community as
well."

Many Hispanics now work in such industries as poultry processing, gambling,
construction and farming.

George Yetsook, a thoroughbred trainer for O'Sullivan Farms, said the Hispanic
population has grown  as people working in the horse industry spread word to
friends and family. At the Charles Town Races, many are taking jobs that few
others want.

"It's a real problem finding local people  --  black, white, whatever  --  who
are willing to work," Yetsook says. "The grooms here are very professional. It
sounds like menial labor, but they're tending to half-million-dollar horses."

Jockeys are the best-paid at Charles Town, earning as much as $10,000 a week,
but exercise riders also do well, earning $700 to $800 a week.

"In the horse industry, if you're willing to work, to do the job and to be
professional, it's unlimited the amount of money you can make," Yetsook says.
Even those who groom the horses and muck the stalls can make enough to live on:
Yetsook has a husband-and-wife team who made a combined $44,000 last year.

But in a region where property values are rising, some are left out.

Ruben Castellano has worked full time for three years as a hot walker at Charles
Town, cooling the horses down after they run.

"The pay is all right," he says, but not enough for a home. He lives in an
8-by-8 tack room, where the walls are wood planks, and the TV, space heater and
mini refrigerator are coated with dust from the barn.

Affordable housing remains a critical need for Hispanic employees, racetrack
chaplain Rick Mann said.

"They go together and rent houses, sometimes to the dismay of their landlords,"
he says. "Or they find no housing at all."

In fast-growing Jefferson County, bordering even faster-growing Loudoun County,
there is little incentive to build apartment complexes or even modest
single-family homes. People fleeing Baltimore, Washington and Northern Virginia
have jacked up land values and turned countless acres of farmland into
subdivisions with quarter- to half-million-dollar homes.

Passel, at the Pew Hispanic Center, says West Virginia should also brace itself
for problems that some southeastern states have experienced with health care and
education  --  institutions often unprepared for explosive growth.

"The economy generates a lot of jobs that basically don't pay enough for the
people who are working in them to get health care," Passel said. "What happens
then is the state and sometimes the local government end up, in essence,
subsidizing the employers of these people."

Delfino Resendiz struggled when he left Mexico in 1992. With 11 siblings and no
money for college, he planned to work in the United States for a year. He
started out cooking in a Chinese restaurant.

But seven years later, he bought Grandma's Diner in downtown Charles Town, and
now he is opening a pizza shop nearby. He learned about taxes, mortgages and
insurance from people who wanted to help. He paid his immigration fines and
became a U.S. citizen.

Now he wants to help other Hispanics. He urges them to acclimate, not isolate
themselves from their new communities.

"If you never associate with the people around you," he says, "you'll never know
the rules and how things work."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              210 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 2, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 366 words


MARYLAND

Shootout Charges Prince George's County police have charged four men in
connection with a robbery and police shootout last week, and detectives are
looking into the possibility that the suspects were involved in several other
armed robberies in the county.

The men are charged with robbing a fast-food restaurant in the 8300 block of
Annapolis Road, speeding off in a car, then shooting at police officers who
chased them. Police returned fire but no one was hit. The men ran away but were
quickly apprehended by police. No one was injured in the May 25 incident.

Charged with armed robbery and first-degree assault are Dewey Reginald Wiseman,
24, and Marques Clark, 20, both of Bowie, and Mohamaed L. Kamara, 18, and Zainab
Haja Jalloh, 22, both with no fixed address.

VIRGINIA

Immigration Charge A man arrested Tuesday at a Starbucks in Falls Church has
been charged with immigration fraud for allegedly failing to disclose on his
application for U.S. citizenship that he had been a member of two terrorist
organizations, officials said.

Maher Amin Jaradat, 43, of Falls Church was a member of the Democratic Front for
the Liberation of Palestine and Al-Fatah, the military arm of the Palestine
Liberation Organization, according to an affidavit filed by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

The indictment filed against Jaradat was unsealed Tuesday. He faces a detention
hearing tomorrow in U.S. District Court in Alexandria.

Bank Robbery Prince William County police are searching for a man who robbed a
BB&T Bank in Woodbridge yesterday while wearing yellow dishwashing gloves and
flip-flops.

Police said the man, wearing a nylon mask, a gray hooded sweat shirt and blue
sweat pants, jumped over the counter and pushed a 55-year-old teller aside,
grabbed cash and ran about 12:05 p.m. But as he ran from the bank at 13927
Jefferson Davis Hwy., the robber left one flip-flop behind, police said. A short
distance away, police found some of the money covered in ink from a dye pack
that was with the cash.

Police think that before he entered the bank, the man went to a Payless Shoe
Source nearby and stole the  flip-flops.

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              211 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 9, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Miami Archbishop Edward McCarthy, 87

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: Metro; B08

LENGTH: 414 words


Edward A. McCarthy, 87, a retired archbishop who hosted a summit of Pope John
Paul II and President Ronald Reagan, beefed up charities to deal with immigrants
and was accused of covering up clergy abuse, died June 7, it was reported in
Miami. No cause of death was released.

Archbishop McCarthy, who led the Archdiocese of Miami from 1977 to 1994, earned
praise from Catholics for spearheading the summit bringing Reagan and John Paul
to Miami in September 1987 while the pope was on a U.S. tour.

Ideologically, Archbishop McCarthy was a staunch opponent of abortion, the death
penalty, casino gambling and restrictive immigration policies, while backing
tuition tax credits for parents of children in private schools.

He expanded Catholic charities in response to waves of immigrants from Cuba
during the Mariel boatlift of 1980 and the rafter exodus of 1994, as well as new
arrivals from Haiti and Central America, as public agencies struggled with
service gaps.

He was criticized for covering up clergy abuse that generated a handful of
lawsuits against the archdiocese. In one suit, a former altar boy claimed the
archbishop coerced him to stay silent about alleged sexual abuse by a priest at
a group home for troubled boys.

Archbishop McCarthy sent a priest accused of sexually abusing boys for a
pedophilia evaluation as the archdiocese publicly defended him, the Miami Herald
reported last year. When the scandal broke, Archbishop McCarthy said media
reports "jeopardized the reputation and ministry of a very dedicated and
self-sacrificing priest."

Early in his tenure, Archbishop McCarthy reorganized the archdiocese,
established a four-month waiting and counseling period for couples planning to
be married and oversaw the creation of dioceses in Palm Beach and Venice, Fla.

In 1981, Archbishop McCarthy sent a telegram to Reagan protesting a policy of
indefinite detention for Haitian refugees claiming political asylum. He also
traveled to Cuba that year to attend the installation of Havana Archbishop Jaime
Lucas Ortega, who is now a cardinal.

In 1986, he created Catholic Health Services, which builds and manages low-cost
apartments and health care facilities for the elderly. He also created a radio
station in 1993 that provides Catholic programming in English, Spanish and
Haitian Creole to South Floridians.

Earlier in his career, Archbishop McCarthy was bishop of Phoenix and Cincinnati,
where he was born. He was ordained in Cincinnati in 1943.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              212 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 11, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

A Blond Nation, in a Bind on Immigrants

BYLINE: Robert G. Kaiser, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A12

LENGTH: 1416 words

DATELINE: HELSINKI


Finland is Europe's most homogenous society, a nation of mostly blond ethnic
Finns whose declining birthrate creates the classic 21st-century European
dilemma: a fast-growing population of senior citizens whose promised benefits
under a generous welfare state will soon be unaffordable.

To compensate for fewer Finnish births, the country could encourage foreigners
to immigrate, a subject much discussed here. But like most of Europe, "Finland
is allergic to immigration," in the words of Manuel Castells, the renowned
Spanish-born sociologist who lives in the United States.

Castells, a professor at the University of Southern California and a student of
Finland since the mid-1990s, chided Finns at a seminar in Helsinki last week.
"Either you make more babies," he told them, "or you make immigrants."

But that is easier said than done, as Castells quickly acknowledged. Finnish
women, enjoying careers and other fruits of the relative gender equality here,
"are on strike," he said, when it comes to bearing children in large numbers. As
a result, Finland is "a small country with an endangered culture."

Altogether, immigrants constitute barely 2 percent of Finland's population of
5.2 million. There were 108,346 foreign-born residents at the end of 2004,
according to government statistics. Of those, fewer than 25,000 were born in
non-white countries whose residents would look conspicuous on the streets of
Helsinki. Russians, Estonians and Swedes together represent more than 46,000
people.

The 4,700 Somali refugees in the country, by far the largest group of black
people, get more attention in the local news media than all the other immigrants
combined, according to Finns. The country continues to accept political asylum
seekers  --  it is now taking in a group of Montagnard hill people who fled
Vietnam.

In principle, Finns often support the idea of immigration. In an interview, Eero
Huovinen, the Lutheran bishop of Helsinki (Lutheranism is Finland's official
religion), noted that the state had "been very careful, sometimes too much so,"
about immigration. But he added, "For human, moral and practical reasons, I
think we have to take more people, people who are willing to work here."

Finland is the only major European country that has generated no far-right,
anti-immigrant political party. Some Finns suggest that may be because their
egalitarian Lutheran values simply won't tolerate an open appeal to racist
sentiments, though they admit that such feelings exist.

Yet Finnish laws and regulations discourage immigration  --  as do the
difficulties of the Finnish language and the long, dark winters here. Nokia,
often referred to as a "miracle" by Finns because it has become one of the
world's high-tech success stories and a rich global company, has attracted an
international workforce to fill some key positions, but in this and many other
respects, it is a unique Finnish institution.

Finns don't really want to think about the fact that more immigration is going
to be needed, said Jalsoon Ally, 28, an ethnic Pakistani who grew up in southern
Africa and graduated from Smith College in Northampton, Mass. Ally is engaged to
a Finn and is completing a graduate degree in international relations at
Helsinki University. "I get the feeling that quite a lot of dallying is going
on," she said. "And not much frank conversation. It's a kind of conscious
blindness."

Ally has lived here for years, and speaks perfect Finnish, according to her
Finnish friends. Because she has been living with her boyfriend for more than
two years, she's "legally a spouse," she said. This has given her unusual access
to Finnish life, and she is an attentive observer.

Finns will "most likely switch to English" when they meet her, Ally said, and
are "always surprised" to learn she speaks Finnish well. Some of her Finnish
friends were born here to immigrant parents, she said, and they share her
frustration at that kind of response. "There's this very clear idea that if you
look different, you can't be Finnish," she said, adding that these Finnish
natives were often asked, "Where are you really from?"

Another immigrant with an interesting perspective on diversity in Finland is
Ajay Meswani, a schoolteacher. The son of an American mother and an Indian
father, he grew up in Philadelphia. He met his Finnish wife at a Danish teachers
college where both were students, and they now have a son and a daughter born in
Finland. Meswani has many kind things to say about the country, particularly its
education system and social services. But he also makes clear that life can be
hard here for someone who looks like him.

"There are so few immigrants in Finland, people aren't used to having foreigners
around," he said in an interview. The consequences can be complicated. He
regularly suffers what Americans would consider snubs, but he knows enough about
the reticent, chilly Finnish personality to realize that at least some of these
incidents can be entirely innocent.

When he started teaching art at a Helsinki primary school, he said, "I was
completely put off by people's total lack of interest in me." On the first day,
he walked into the teachers' room, where his new colleagues were carrying on a
conversation. "No one stopped, my presence wasn't even acknowledged," he said.
"It really made me angry. It was hard not to think it was deliberate  --  but it
really wasn't." This, he said, is the way Finns treat each other.

Whatever the motivation, the effect on Meswani is wearing. The only real friends
he has here, he said, are friends of his wife, Riita. "The hardest thing for me
is when I make an effort to greet someone and I get either a blank stare or a
scowl. It has happened many times. It's very strange."

Finland is not monocultural. It was part of Sweden for centuries, and from 1809
to 1917, it was part of Russia. Both cultures left populations in Finland that
have helped shaped the country's national identity. The Swedish minority, about
6 percent of the population, enjoys special protections, and Swedish remains the
official second language. There is a long-standing Roma, or Gypsy, population,
as well as an indigenous people in Lapland, in the far north, who call
themselves Sami.

But in its 88-year history as an independent country, Finland has become
remarkably homogenous. Many Finns believe this has helped the country repeatedly
undertake substantial reforms that have altered life here in ways many other
societies would have resisted. The Finns have done it, moreover, on the basis of
a broad political consensus that still largely holds.

Guided by a widely accepted elite, Finland transformed itself from a backward
rural nation into an industrial force in the 30 years after World War II, then
remade itself again into a rich, high-tech powerhouse in the last 30 years.
Finland is rated the least corrupt nation in the world by Transparency
International, a Berlin-based international research group.

Castells, the sociologist, calls Finland's government "the most legitimate
government in Europe," meaning it enjoys the highest degree of acceptance and
deference from its people. That is one of the reasons, Finns say, that
immigration is such a delicate issue. Opposition to it is widespread, by many
accounts, but also muted.

"There are a lot of prejudices, unfortunately," against foreigners, said Risto
Siilasmaa, 39, a software entrepreneur who runs an Internet security company.
"We still live in a very isolated environment. That's going to take decades to
change."

A Web site sponsored by the Finnish Ministry for Foreign Affairs
(www.virtual.finland.fi) features an article on foreigners in Finland that
includes the comment: "Negative attitudes and xenophobia among the main
population towards foreigners are still present."

Ordinary people don't understand assertions by intellectuals and members of
Finland's elite that immigration is necessary, "when we have 10 percent
unemployment," said Miapetra Kumpula, a 33-year-old Social Democratic member of
the Finnish Parliament. Officials say the unemployed tend to be aging workers
who lack the skills for the new information-based jobs the country is creating.

Ten percent is the overall unemployment figure. But a government report this
spring noted that unemployment among ethnic Finns was 9 percent, compared with
29 percent among immigrants. "A lot of highly trained immigrants have had to
take menial jobs," if they could gets jobs at all.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              213 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 12, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

WEEK IN REVIEW;
June 5-11

SECTION: Metro; C04

LENGTH: 563 words


Virginia State Police have backed off a plan that would have allowed some
officers to make immigration arrests.

Proceeding with an agreement with federal authorities would have made Virginia
the third state to adopt such a practice.

The idea of involving police in immigration enforcement grew out of the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which were carried out by 19 foreigners, three of
whom were in the country illegally. Several localities that expressed interest
in the idea have ultimately abandoned it because of a lack of resources or
opposition from immigrant groups worried about ethnic profiling.

Col. Steve Flaherty, chief of the state police, said that he was sensitive to
the immigrant groups' concerns but that the decision to put the federal
agreement on hold was "more of a practical decision." He said authorities
determined that a new Virginia law covered the kinds of immigrants, such as drug
traffickers and gang members, that state police were worried about.

Federal officials filed murder charges in the slaying of a bicyclist along a
popular bike and jogging path in Alexandria.

Andre D. Suggs, 35, of Alexandria was charged with strangling Mark Creasy, 48,
on federal land on Daingerfield Island on May 28. According to court documents,
Suggs killed Creasy, of Alexandria, during a robbery, then threatened a witness
and hopped on Creasy's bike to briefly chase the witness. When two other people
approached, the court papers say, Suggs jumped off the bike and ran into a
wooded area. Less than an hour later, Alexandria police arrested a naked Suggs
about a half-mile away when he crossed George Washington Memorial Parkway at
Bashford Lane.

A former George Mason University administrator who videotaped himself having sex
with young men at home and in his campus office was convicted of trying to
extort money from two of the men as well as eight child pornography charges.

The jury deliberated less than 90 minutes before finding Ronald J. Sinacore, 56,
guilty of all charges. It recommended a total sentence of 14 years in prison.
Sentencing was scheduled for Sept. 16.

Sinacore was associate director of the university's Office of Equity and
Diversity Services when he was arrested in October. He was fired in January. He
did not take the stand in his defense during the three-day trial in Fairfax
County Circuit Court.

A Springfield area high school senior has been charged with involuntary
manslaughter for his role in a high-speed car crash that took the life of his
passenger on Old Keene Mill Road in March, Fairfax County police said.

The driver's family placed him in a residential center for troubled teens in
Alabama and wants him to remain there for as long as a year, rather than return
immediately to Fairfax to face charges. Fairfax authorities said they are
seeking his extradition and want to try him as an adult.

The victim, Adam Foote, 17, a senior at West Springfield High School, was riding
in a 1989 Ford Mustang driven by a schoolmate, whose name was not released
because he was a juvenile at the time. Police said they believe that the Mustang
was "engaged in an exhibition of speed" with a 1996 Chevrolet Camaro when the
Mustang slammed into the rear of a dump truck. The driver, who has since turned
18, suffered minor injuries. The driver of the Camaro, 17, slammed into a light
post but was not seriously hurt.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              214 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 17, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Assimilation Nation

BYLINE: Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: Editorial; A31

LENGTH: 797 words


One of the reasons for the success we've enjoyed in Afghanistan is that our
viceroy  --  pardon me, ambassador  --  there, who saw the country through the
founding of a democratic government, was not just a serious thinker and a
skilled diplomat but also spoke the language and understood the culture. Why?
Because Zalmay Khalilzad is an Afghan-born Afghan American.

It is not every country that can send to obscure faraway places envoys who are
themselves children of that culture. Indeed, Americans are the only people who
can do that for practically every country.

Being mankind's first-ever universal nation, to use Ben Wattenberg's felicitous
phrase for our highly integrated polyglot country, carries enormous advantage.
In the shrunken world of the information age, we have significant populations of
every ethnicity capable of making instant and deep connections  --  economic as
well as diplomatic  --  with just about every foreign trouble spot, hothouse and
economic dynamo on the planet.

That is a priceless and unique asset. It is true that other countries,
particularly in Europe, have in the  past several decades opened themselves up
to immigration. But the real problem is not immigration but assimilation. Anyone
can do immigration. But if you don't assimilate the immigrants  --  France, for
example, has vast, isolated exurban immigrant slums with populations totally
alienated from the polity and the general culture  --  then immigration becomes
not an asset but a liability.

America's genius has always been assimilation, taking immigrants and turning
them into Americans. Yet our current debates on immigration focus on only one
side of the issue  --  the massive waves of illegal immigrants that we seem
unable to stop.

The various plans, all well-intentioned, have an air of hopelessness about them.
Amnesty of some sort seems reasonable because there is no way we're going to
expel 10 million-plus illegal immigrants, and we might as well make their lives
more normal. But that will not stop further illegal immigration. In fact, it
will encourage it, because every amnesty  --  and we have them periodically  --
tells potential illegals still in Mexico and elsewhere that if they persist long
enough, they will get in, and if they stay here long enough, they can cut to the
head of the line.

In the end, increased law enforcement, guest-worker programs and other
incentives that encourage some of the illegals to go back home can  go only so
far. Which is why we should be devoting far more attention to the other half of
the problem:  not just how many come in but what happens to them once they're
here.

The anti-immigrant types argue that there is something unique about our mostly
Latin immigration that makes it unassimilable. First, that there's simply too
much of it to be digested.  Actually, the percentage of foreign-born people
living in  the United States today is significantly below what it was in 1890
and 1910  --  and those were spectacularly successful immigrations. And there is
nothing about their  culture that makes it any more difficult for Catholic
Hispanics to assimilate than the Czechs and Hungarians, Chinese and Koreans  who
came decades ago.

The key to assimilation, of course, is language. The real threat to the United
States is not immigration per se but bilingualism and, ultimately,
biculturalism. Having grown up in Canada, where a language divide is a recurring
source of friction and fracture, I can only wonder at those who want to
duplicate that plague in the United States.

The good news, and the reason I am less panicked about illegal immigration than
most, is that the vogue for bilingual education is  waning. It has been
abolished by referendum in California, Arizona and even Massachusetts.

As the results in California have shown, it was a disaster for Hispanic
children. It delays assimilation by perhaps a full generation. Those in "English
immersion" have more than twice the rate of English proficiency  than those in
the old bilingual system (being taught other subjects in Spanish while being
gradually taught English).

By all means we should try to control immigration. Nonetheless, given our
geography, our tolerant culture and the magnetic attraction of our economy,
illegals will always be with us. Our first task, therefore, should be abolishing
bilingual education everywhere and requiring that our citizenship tests have
strict standards for English language and American civics.

The cure for excessive immigration is successful assimilation. The way to
prevent European-like immigration catastrophes is to turn every immigrant  --
and most surely his children  --  into an American. Who might one day grow up to
be our next Zalmay Khalilzad.

letters@charleskrauthammer.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              215 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 25, 2005 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

For a New U.S. Citizen, Long-Awaited Relief;
Disabled Afghan Refugee Fought for Years to Be Exempted From Civics Test

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B03

LENGTH: 683 words


With a simple nod of his head, followed by a wide grin that lasted all morning,
Salam Reangber became a U.S. citizen yesterday.

It was the culmination of seven years of persistence on the part of Reangber,
40, a deaf, illiterate Afghan refugee who lives in Alexandria and had been told
by immigration officials years ago that being deaf didn't excuse him from a
written English civics test requirement to be naturalized.

With the help of his younger sister, Najia Hayat, and a social worker from the
Catholic Legal Immigration Network, Reangber was finally exempted from the test
and took his citizenship oath at the Fairfax office of Citizenship and
Immigration Services yesterday.

"He's really happy," said Hayat, 37, translating the few Dari words her brother
can speak and the perma-smile on his face. "We are all very happy and relieved."

Most of Reangber's family  --  including his mother, four brothers and one of
his two sisters  --  immigrated to the United States in the mid-1980s, seeking
refuge from the Soviet invasion that was devastating Afghanistan. They live in
several locations around Northern Virginia. Reangber is about to move with his
mother and a brother to a new house in Springfield.

Immediately after immigrating, Reangber and one of his brothers, Satar, who also
is deaf, got jobs as tailors, the trade they learned in Afghanistan instead of
going to school to learn how to read and write. Today, Salam Reangber still
works in the business as a steamer at Nordstrom.

The two brothers first applied for citizenship in 1998. But what should have
been routine became a nightmare, said Lisa Burdick, the social worker handling
their cases. Immigration officials lost Satar's papers, then denied Salam
because deafness was not considered a disability that warranted waiving the
testing requirement.

But what immigration officials didn't recognize was that the brothers were
illiterate in both English and Dari, and that they had no formal training in
sign language, Burdick said. Their communication was comprised of crude hand
gestures and some spoken Dari.

"Over and over again, we've explained to them, 'Look, he's never been able to
read or write or learned any formal system of communication,' " said Burdick,
who took on the Reangber brothers' cases almost three years ago.

Since then, the brothers also have been diagnosed with mental retardation, a
diagnosis that led to their exemption from the civics test, Burdick said.

The family reapplied for citizenship for Satar and appealed Salam's denial. Last
year, six years after filing the original paperwork, Satar finally got
citizenship. Salam, however, could only look on and wait his turn.

"It was hard for him to watch," Hayat said. "He was happy for Satar, but he was
unhappy for himself."

Yesterday, dressed in a suit and tie and wearing a U.S. flag lapel pin, Salam
joined his brother as a new American.

It's bittersweet for Burdick, who said the seven years of waiting were an
injustice.

"It should not have taken so long," she said. "I really feel bad about that."

In recent years, it has gotten more difficult to get disability waivers, Burdick
said, adding that her agency recently reported that it files about 15 waiver
requests annually. In the past two years, only two have been approved, she said.

Officials from CIS weren't able to provide information yesterday about how often
disability waivers are granted.

Chris Bentley, a spokesman for CIS, confirmed that Satar's file was lost years
ago. He also explained that delays such as the ones experienced by the Reangber
brothers often occur because FBI background checks can take a long time to
complete.

"Once it passes out of our hands and goes to [the FBI], we can't proceed until
it gets back," he said. "We can't push it, we can't expedite it, we can't touch
it."

For the Reangber brothers, citizenship is bringing pride and security  --  and
for Satar, a wife. He was engaged to a woman in Afghanistan in 1997, but he was
unable to bring her to the United States until he became a citizen. He expects
her to join him this summer.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2005



CORRECTION:   A June 25 Metro article about a deaf Afghan refugee becoming a
U.S. citizen misidentified a social worker for Catholic Legal Immigration
Network. She is Laura Burdick, not Lisa Burdick.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              216 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 30, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Cities Losing People After '90s Influx, Census Bureau Finds;
Jobs, Cheaper Housing in Suburbs Attracting Immigrants

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A03

LENGTH: 916 words


After shedding residents for decades, many U.S. cities revived in the 1990s,
with immigrants streaming in and gentrification resurrecting downtowns with
lofts, coffee bars and trendy restaurants.

But new Census Bureau estimates to be released today show many cities slipping
again. More than two dozen large cities that had been growing a decade ago are
shrinking. Fast-growing suburbs with service-sector jobs and more affordable
housing are attracting thousands of foreign-born residents who in the past would
have started out in the city.

The list of former gainers that have lost population since 2000 include Boston,
Chicago, Minneapolis and San Francisco.

"The broad swing of things is that people move out. For a lot of people, the
city is simply a way station, and it's not clear how long these rosy times of
the late '90s would continue," said William H. Frey, a Brookings Institution
demographer. "We're clearly going in a somewhat different direction than we were
in the late '90s."

Among the nation's 251 cities with at least 100,000 people, 68 lost population
between 2000 and 2004, according to the new figures. In the 1990s, 36 did.

Regionally, the biggest change was in the Midwest, where a third of cities lost
population in the 1990s but more than 60 percent did this decade, according to
Frey's calculations. The South and West also have more losing cities this
decade, including San Francisco and nearby Oakland, where demographers blamed
high housing prices and the collapse of the high-tech economy. Frey's analysis
also found that expansion slowed in some formerly fast-growing cities.

The only region that has fewer shrinking cities this decade is the Northeast,
where some older places such as Newark, N.J., and New Haven, Conn., have
rebounded after decades of loss. The estimates found that New York City has kept
growing since 2000, and that longtime population-losing older cities such as
Cleveland and Philadelphia continued to shrink.

Census Bureau figures released earlier said the District and Baltimore have
continued to lose population, as they have every decade since the 1950s. City
officials in Washington and Baltimore  --  as in Boston, Chicago and some other
cities  --  dispute the figures, saying they undercount immigrants and new
housing units. Census Bureau demographer Greg Harper said the agency has
improved its count of both since the 1990s.

But urban experts say they are convinced that the general trend of city
population loss this decade is real. In retrospect, the gains that made the
1990s the best decade for big cities since World War II may have been a
temporary exception to the long-term pattern. Except for those who can afford
high-priced city housing, the lure of the suburbs is too strong, they say.

In Chicago  --  "the toast of the '90s metro revival," in Frey's words  --  the
population dropped by nearly 34,000 this decade, the largest loss among former
gainers. The city grew in the 1990s for the first time in half a century, mainly
because thousands of Hispanic immigrants and births offset departures of other
residents to the suburbs.

Kenneth Johnson, a demographer at Loyola University Chicago, said Hispanic
families have begun leaving the city in larger numbers for suburban safety and
better schools, while some young, single immigrants head directly for outer
suburbs that have a growing pool of jobs in construction, cleaning and other
fields.

"What's probably happening is there's still a reasonably large influx of
unattached Hispanics into the city  --  though not the volume as in the '90s,"
he said. "But I think the city is losing Hispanic families for the same reasons
it is losing white families and black families," he said.

The main Hispanic neighborhoods in the heart of Chicago, including Pilsen,
Little Village and Back of the Yards, have almost no green space. Luis
Gutierrez, executive director of the organization Latinos Progresando in the
Pilsen neighborhood, said once a family moves to the suburbs, it starts a chain
reaction by which relatives and friends arriving from Mexico join them there,
bypassing the city.

"My sister moved out to Elgin to be closer to her job," he said. "Then, when her
mother-in-law and brother-in-law came, they stayed in Elgin out there with her,
not in Chicago. Because of that, places like Elgin are doubling in size."

In Boston, economist Paul Harrington of Northeastern University's Center for
Labor Market Studies said the city was hurt by the collapse of the high-tech
economy that also damaged San Francisco and other highflying urban centers of
the 1990s. Boston's job base shrank 7 percent from late 2001 to late 2004, he
said.

"The job creation in the city and state has just been poor," he said. "To see
this slowdown and population decline is not surprising in the context of that
job performance."

But demographers emphasize that population growth is not the only measure of a
city's success. In Washington, which has been losing population for years, "its
housing market is stronger and its fiscal markets are stronger than it was
100,000 people ago," said Robert Lang, director of the Metropolitan Center at
Virginia Tech.

Like other cities whose reputations but not populaces are growing, he said, "if
you promote yourself to singles, childless couples, gays, the creative class,
that's not going to grow your population, but it's going to grow your municipal
budget."

Staff writer Kari Lydersen in Chicago contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              217 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 1, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

CRIME & JUSTICE

SECTION: Metro; B02

LENGTH: 313 words


THE DISTRICT

Charge in Teen's Slaying D.C. police charged a 19-year-old Northwest man
yesterday in the death of a Ballou High School senior in April.

Detectives took Michael Blackson, of the 1100 block of First Place, into custody
without incident about 4:30 p.m., police said. He was charged with the
first-degree murder of Lavelle Kendell Jones, 16, of Oxon Hill.

Police found Jones's body in the front passenger seat of a 1992 Pontiac
Bonneville on April 24. He had been in the car with friends in the 3600 block of
Minnesota Avenue SE when a second car pulled up and fired one shot, hitting him
the head.

Blackson is to be arraigned today in D.C. Superior Court.

MARYLAND

Crackdown on Fugitives Immigration officials have arrested 25 illegal immigrants
in Montgomery County who have outstanding criminal warrants, officials said.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said the fugitives come from countries
including China, Ghana, Guatemala, Korea and Nicaragua. Most were arrested in
the Bethesda, Burtonsville, Gaithersburg and Rockville areas.

Those detained have evaded orders of deportation for crimes including assault
and robbery.

Victim Identified Prince George's County police have identified the victim of a
June 20 homicide as Manales Cristobol Sanchez, 16.

Sanchez, of the 1600 block of Neely Road in Silver Spring, was found dead behind
a trash bin in the 8200 block of 14th Avenue with trauma to his upper body.

VIRGINIA

Murder Charge A 30-year-old Prince William County man has been charged with
murder in the shooting death of a man found  in his car near a Woodbridge marina
in May, police said.

Shirley L. Carter, of the 4500 block of Evansdale Road, is being held without
bond, police said.

James W. Jackson was charged earlier with murder in the slaying of Andrew Tuck,
28, of Dale City.

Compiled from reports by staff writers.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              218 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 5, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

New Citizens Await Fresh Opportunities;
41 Naturalized in Rosslyn

BYLINE: Ruben Castaneda, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B07

LENGTH: 656 words


On the holiday commemorating the birth of their adopted country, 41 men and
women from every part of the globe arrived before 9 a.m. yesterday and quietly
took assigned seats in Freedom Park in Rosslyn.

Among them were college students, a restaurant cashier, an executive assistant
to a chief administrative officer of a large company, a landscaper. Some wore
little American flag pins. They came from 27 countries, and after a brief
naturalization ceremony, they were full-fledged U.S. citizens.

Immediately after receiving his citizenship certificate, Jose Salazar, who
immigrated to the Washington area more than 10 years ago from Mexico, walked to
a nearby table where volunteers were registering voters. Salazar's first act was
to fill out his registration form with painstaking and precise penmanship.

"I feel very happy," said Salazar, 70, a restaurant cashier. "All Hispanics
should vote. It's the only way to ensure our rights."

The Freedom Park ceremony was one of more than 90 that took place yesterday
across the country, in which more than 15,000 new citizens were naturalized,
officials said.

The event marked the eighth year that the Newseum, the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services and the State Department have joined forces to host a
Fourth of July naturalization ceremony.

Salazar said he came to the Washington area from his home in Oaxaca more than a
decade ago to work and send money to help educate his four children, who were
all studying engineering in Mexico. Each is now working as an engineer. "They
don't need my financial help anymore," he said.

A half-dozen new citizens who were interviewed expressed pride in gaining U.S.
citizenship. Some spoke of finally having the chance to vote; others talked of
how becoming an American will improve their lives.

"More opportunities are presented. Sometimes you're held back because you're not
a citizen," said Sulakshana Seevaratham, 21, a junior at the University of Mary
Washington in Fredericksburg.

Seevaratham, who came from Sri Lanka to the United States with her family eight
years ago, noted that some government jobs and many scholarships are reserved
for U.S. citizens. Seevaratham said she plans on going to medical school.

Aside from welcoming more opportunities, Seevaratham said she is honored to be a
U.S. citizen.

Although she said she is aware that many people around the world view the United
States negatively because of the war in Iraq, she said she wasn't fazed by that.
When traveling, she said, "You can show people you have morals and values."

Before the ceremony, Jose Antonio Menjivar, 44, sat one row behind Seevaratham,
a miniature American flag in the pocket of his short-sleeved shirt.

Menjivar came to the Washington area 16 years ago from El Salvador. He said he
started out working as a busboy at a restaurant in Rosslyn and now works for a
landscaping company and lives in Fairfax with his wife.

The best part about becoming a U.S. citizen, Menjivar said, is that, "Now I can
vote. I can have [political] representation."

Likewise, Fiona Makarevich, 41, of Great Britain, who has lived in the United
States off and on since 1987, said she views voting as a duty now that she is a
U.S. citizen.

"This is my home now. When it's your home, you have certain responsibilities,"
said Makarevich, an executive secretary who lives with her husband in
Gainesville.

Makarevich said the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, made her feel more a
part of the United States. When the attacks occurred, "I was proud to say I
lived in this country," she said.

Antoun Almasri, 27, emigrated seven years ago from Syria. Since arriving in the
United States, Almasri said, he has obtained an undergraduate degree from
Catholic University and is studying architecture at Virginia Tech.

"I feel like I'm part of this society now," Almasri said. "Today is the Fourth
of July. To be a citizen on that day  --  I'm really honored."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              219 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 14, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Immigrant Aid Group Gets Funds For Housing

BYLINE: Sandhya Somashekhar, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Fairfax Extra; T03

LENGTH: 655 words


When Virginia Bonanjah, a farmworker and activist from Cameroon, came to the
United States  seeking political asylum in 2002, she was homeless, helpless and
depressed.

"I cried all the time," said Bonanjah, 45, who left her husband and five of her
six children in the African country. "I had no source of income, no insurance. I
didn't have anything."

With the help of the  Center for Multicultural Human Services,   a nonprofit
organization in the city of Falls Church, she succeeded in gaining asylum. The
center also provided her with psychological counseling and found temporary
housing for Bonanjah  and her 7-year-old son, Bill Clinton Iteinjoh.

The center, which has served hundreds of asylum-seekers, provides the same sort
of assistance to immigrants in similar situations, said Ricarda Dowling, the
organization's development director.

Late last month,  the group announced that, with a $550,000 grant and the help
of the city, it soon will have four new transitional homes for its clients in
Northern Virginia. Those residences are in addition to a three-bedroom apartment
in Tysons Corner that the organization has rented for the past three years.

Dowling said more free and affordable housing is needed in the area for homeless
people, especially immigrant families who come from war-torn countries.

"Imagine a family with a bunch of kids from Afghanistan or Bosnia or wherever
trying to survive on their own right away," Dowling said.

Many have no money and face a language barrier when trying to obtain services,
which can be difficult even for native residents, she said. It is especially
hard for asylum-seekers like Bonanjah, who flee to the United States however
they can to escape persecution at home. After they arrive, they apply for
asylum, which, once it is granted, gives them legal status and allows them to
find work.

Their problems are compounded by the area's high cost of living, Dowling said.
The median price for townhouses and single-family houses in Fairfax County,
Falls Church and Fairfax City last year was $415,000, according to a Washington
Post analysis in March. The waiting list for the county's homeless shelters for
families averages about 60 families at any given time, county statistics show.

Data on homeless immigrants are difficult to find. According to a  census on
homelessness conducted every year by the Metropolitan Washington Council of
Governments, at least 5 percent of homeless people in the Washington area speak
a language other than English as their primary language. That number jumps to 20
percent in the Arlington and Fairfax county areas.

The $550,000 grant, from the Freddie Mac Foundation, will temporarily pay rent
and services on four of the residences. The fifth, a four-bedroom house in Falls
Church, was offered by the city for $1 a year.

The center won the low-cost lease through a competitive application process
initiated by city leaders, who wanted to provide more affordable housing in the
largely affluent city. The center is renovating the home, a  whitewashed brick
structure on North Washington Street that is expected to be finished by
September.

All five residences will house individuals and families who seem motivated and
likely to become nearly self-sufficient after six months, Dowling said.

Bonanjah, who soon will be moving into the Tysons Corner apartment, said she is
well on her way to self-sufficiency. She got a job at an Alexandria nursing home
caring for people who are old and sick, which she often did in Cameroon as an
advocate for women, farmers, the poor and the elderly.

She declined to discuss the reasons for her departure from the country.

She and her husband  --  like many Cameroonians, she said  --  named their son
Bill Clinton after the then-president's 1998 visit to sub-Saharan Africa.

"We were so impressed with him," she said. "At that time I never knew I would
one day come to the United States."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              220 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 15, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 419 words


The Senate approved a $31 billion homeland security spending bill for 2006 after
defeating efforts to add $1.2 billion to secure mass transit systems in the wake
of the London bombings.

The bill, which passed 96 to 1, would fund immigration and customs enforcement,
airport security, the Coast Guard, the Secret Service, and a host of
anti-terrorism grants to protect ports, mass-transit systems, and chemical and
nuclear facilities.

Senators rejected a series of efforts to substantially increase spending for
mass-transit systems and firefighters, police and other emergency-service
providers.

"We must guard against what the world witnessed last week in London," said Sen.
Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), sponsor of the amendment to add $1.2 billion in
mass-transit spending  --  two-thirds of it for security infrastructure such as
surveillance, fencing and detection systems for explosives.

Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) questioned such a huge spending increase, saying,
"There isn't enough money in the federal treasury to effectively address
securing the entire transit system in America."

The debate over protecting mass transit came during a four-day Senate debate on
$30.8 billion for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 for the Department of Homeland
Security.

The legislation also provides nearly $9 billion for border security, including
funds to hire new border agents and immigration investigators and for completing
a fence along the California-Mexico border.

Democrats cautioned yesterday that the long-term deficit picture remains
troubling despite new White House figures showing the budget deficit will dip to
$333 billion this fiscal year, from $412 billion in 2004. "I think we should
give a wary welcome to the news that the 2005 deficit projection is smaller and
receipts are higher than the administration estimated in February," John M.
Spratt Jr. (S.C.), ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said during a
hearing. "We have no assurance that these revenues will be recurring; and in any
event, they still leave the deficit for this year . . . the third largest on
record."

Kent Conrad (N.D.), the ranking Democrat on the Senate Budget Committee, noted
that even with a projected decline in the deficit, the overall U.S. debt is
going up by $587 billion this year. "By using Social Security trust fund dollars
to pay for tax cuts and other government spending, the administration
significantly understates the true fiscal imbalance of the country," he said.

--  Shailagh Murray

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              221 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 17, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Counties Step Into Foreign Territory;
Immigration Fuels A Global Strategy By Montgomery

BYLINE: Cameron W. Barr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; C01

LENGTH: 1084 words


When Montgomery County's Douglas M. Duncan travels to El Salvador next month, he
will be the first U.S. county executive to make an official visit to the Central
American nation. He will meet President Elias Antonio Saca, sit down with
business leaders and journey to the eastern part of the country, home to many of
the Salvadorans who have moved to Montgomery.

Duncan is running an undeclared campaign for the Democratic gubernatorial
nomination, so it makes political sense to visit the nation that  is the
homeland of  the most Maryland immigrants, according to the 2000 Census.  But
the trip, which will be funded in part by taxpayers, reflects an increasingly
important feature of big-county governance: a rudimentary foreign policy.

Under Duncan's leadership, Montgomery accepts documents issued by foreign
governments as proof of identity and residence, operates a welcome center for
immigrants that offers English lessons and courses on citizenship and maintains
an Office of Community Outreach organized according to regions of the world.

Montgomery is not the only county in the  region developing a global reach.
Fairfax County's Economic Development Authority spends about $500,000 a year on
marketing consultants who tout the county's virtues from offices in Bangalore,
India; Frankfurt, Germany; London; Seoul; and Tel Aviv.

"It fits the rubric of foreign policy because it's living proof that diversity
makes us stronger," said Gerald L. Gordon, the Fairfax group's president, adding
that the number of foreign firms operating in Fairfax has grown from 17 in 1979
to 332 this year.

Montgomery relies mainly on a state agency for international marketing, but
promoting investment will be part of Duncan's Salvadoran agenda. Rene Antonio
Leon, El Salvador's ambassador in Washington, called the county "the epicenter
of economic activity for Salvadorans and Hispanics in the eastern U.S."
Montgomery and Prince George's counties "rank among the first in the nation in
terms of the support they offer to immigrants and their support for business,"
he said.

"Like everybody else, we're thinking globally," said Sharon Taylor, a
spokeswoman for Prince George's County Executive Jack B. Johnson (D), who
visited Senegal and Gambia in March.

Duncan isn't sure that Montgomery's programs and initiatives add up to a foreign
policy. "I never really thought about it that way," he said. But he agrees that
globalization and an immigrant-rich population demand a broad outlook.

"In a county like Fairfax or Montgomery, where you have such an important
economic base for your region and the state, you need to look beyond your
country's borders," he said. "And to provide the services that people need,
you've got to look beyond them as well."

Older, established suburbs  --  known in planning argot as "inner ring" or
"first" suburbs  --  have drawn immigrants at a faster rate in the past three
decades than the cities they abut and the nation as a whole, according to Robert
Puentes of the Brookings Institution. According to the 2000 Census, 45 percent
of Maryland's foreign-born population resides in Montgomery.

That is one reason such suburbs are functioning more like big cities, whose
mayors have long traveled overseas to market their jurisdictions and to appeal
to immigrant populations back home.

Last year, D.C. Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D), for example, traveled to China,
France, Italy and Spain. Duncan, over more than a decade as county executive,
has visited Canada and Scotland once each and Israel three times.

Many inner-ring suburbs are "cities in content, they're cities in function, but
they're not traditional cities in look," said Robert E. Lang, director of the
Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech. To promote growth, he said, such
jurisdictions must draw single people, childless couples and immigrants. For the
governments of inner-ring suburbs, he added, "their stake is in being
cosmopolitan  --  their pride and identity is in that."

At a time of debate over illegal immigration, Duncan justifies Montgomery's
policies by proclaiming that one source of the county's strength is its
diversity. He defends his decision to recognize identity cards issued by the
Mexican and Guatemalan governments and to encourage banks to do so as a way to
help immigrants  use legal banking services rather than rely on illegal or risky
alternatives.

"Everything we are doing is to help people who are here work their way toward
citizenship," Duncan said, adding that the "vast majority of immigrants here are
here legally." Montgomery's immigrant and minority communities make up about 40
percent of the county's 930,000 residents.

When the card policy was announced in May 2003, Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-Colo.) said
the cards "have nothing to do with immigrants, only with illegal immigrants. . .
. They are anything but valid forms of identification. They cannot be relied
upon."

Duncan said he was satisfied with the governments' procedures in producing the
cards, which show local addresses, allowing Montgomery to accept a foreign
government's word that someone resides in the county. Mexico's consul general in
Washington, Enrique Escorza, said they are accepted by 153 counties and 32
states.

In 2001, Montgomery opened the Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity in
Wheaton, a referral and activities center for new immigrants and others that
costs the county about $300,000 a year. At the center, residents can study
English, obtain legal advice and learn how to use computers. The center also
offers classes on citizenship, provides information on housing and helps people
find health care services.

Duncan said such programs have more to do with domestic policy than foreign
policy,  because they serve people already in the United States. But communities
that welcome immigrants, he added, are more attractive to foreign companies than
those that do not.

Montgomery's Office of Community Outreach reflects Duncan's we-are-the-world
approach. One official handles African American and African immigrants; a second
is the Asian Pacific American liaison; a third works with Latinos.

Duncan said he has resisted suggestions to move the office from the second floor
of the Executive Office Building in Rockville, an inner sanctum where he and
about a dozen county  leaders work.

"Those communities need to know they've got a direct connection to the county
executive if an issue arises," he said.

Staff writer Ovetta Wiggins contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              222 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 21, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

4 More Immigrants Indicted In Effort to Halt Fake-ID Trade;
Adams Morgan Rings Persist, but Graham Sees Progress

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T03

LENGTH: 580 words


Four Mexican immigrants  have been charged with possessing phony ID documents in
the latest move by officials to crack down on the notorious fake-document market
in  Adams Morgan.

The men were indicted last week by a grand jury of the U.S. District Court for
the District of Columbia. They face sentences of up to 10 years each if
convicted, said Channing Phillips, a court spokesman.

The indictments were a result of Operation Card Shark, an effort by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to break up the rings that hawk phony Social
Security and U.S. residency cards along Columbia Road NW.

The operation has resulted in the closure of six phony-document mills and the
seizure of about 9,500 fake IDs, officials said. Including the latest arrests,
102 immigrants have been apprehended since the operation began three years ago,
and 41 have been prosecuted, the agency said. Still, vendors continue to offer
the fake IDs in Adams Morgan, a historically Latino area.

"It's a continuing problem, so we are continuing keeping the pressure on the
area, to disrupt the trade," said Allan Doody, special agent in charge of the
local immigration enforcement office.

He said authorities were seeking to file criminal charges against vendors rather
than simply deport them, because it is "a bigger deterrent." The Mexicans were
detained in May for being in the country illegally, officials said.

According to the indictment, Jose Luis Contreras-Macedas, 24, his brother Josue
Contreras-Macedas, 21, and David Mora-Gil, 22, possessed phony Social Security
cards, and the fourth man, Allan Joseph Vargas-Alvarez, 20, had a fake
border-crossing card. Officials alleged that the men, all District residents,
were street vendors of phony documents.

The men were also charged with aggravated identity theft, which could add two
years to their sentences if they are convicted, Phillips said. Vargas-Alvarez
faces an additional charge of re-entering the country illegally after being
deported, which carries a two-year sentence.

The men have pleaded not guilty and are being held without bond, said Phillips.

U.S. Attorney Kenneth L. Wainstein said the crackdown is crucial because "false
identification documents can be used as a means to all sorts of criminal ends,
ranging from petty scams to large-scale fraud to terrorism. It is critically
important that we curb the proliferation and reduce the availability of these
documents, particularly in the Adams Morgan area, which has historically been a
hub for their production and distribution."

The fake-document sales have occurred for years along Columbia Road despite
occasional crackdowns. Officials say the informal market thrives because of the
ease of making fraudulent IDs and because of heavy demand from illegal
immigrants who use them to get jobs. But after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks,
officials became increasingly concerned that the market could be exploited by
terrorists.

D.C. Council member Jim Graham (D-Ward 1), whose ward includes Adams Morgan,
said the continued pressure by federal authorities seemed to be making a
difference.

"This problem is not a five-yard dash. This is a long-distance run," he said.
"But every time a federal action [occurs] it improves it. So today, compared to
two years ago . . . [the trade] is now far more sporadic, there are fewer people
[selling], there are fewer document mills."

However, he said, "If we don't keep the pressure on, it will go back to the way
it was."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              223 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. Raids Islamic Charity In N.Va.;
Immigration Charge Filed Against Worker

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 375 words


FBI and Homeland Security agents raided the Northern Virginia office of a
Saudi-based charity that has been under scrutiny for possible terrorist ties and
detained one of its employees on immigration charges, officials said yesterday.

The Muslim World League office in Falls Church had also been searched in 2002 in
a dramatic series of raids of Muslim organizations in Northern Virginia. The
charity has not been charged.

Abdullah Alnoshan, 44, a Saudi citizen who worked at the charity, was arrested
at 6 a.m. Friday at his house in Alexandria, according to officials of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

Agents working through a joint terrorism task force searched his home and then
his office at 360 S. Washington St. in Falls Church, officials said. They
removed computers, photographs and immigration documents, said Allan Doody,
special agent in charge of the ICE office.

Alnoshan was charged with immigration fraud. According to an affidavit in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria, Alnoshan had been sponsored by the Muslim World
League for a work visa to do public relations and religious work. Instead, he
served as director of the charity, the document said.

Also charged in the case was Khalid Fadlalla, a Sudanese citizen who works at
the Muslim World League office in New York. Fadlalla, who also was arrested
Friday, had signed the forms petitioning for a work visa for his Saudi
colleague, according to court documents and officials.

Ashraf Nubani, an attorney involved in the case, said Alnoshan plans to plead
not guilty.

In recent years, U.S. officials have filed immigration charges against hundreds
of people whose names have emerged in the course of terrorism investigations.

U.S. agencies have been investigating the Muslim World League for years because
of suspicions that it knowingly or unknowingly provided funds to Osama bin
Laden. A senior Treasury Department official, Stuart Levey, told a Senate
hearing on terror financing this month that the Muslim World League and a few
other Saudi charities "continue to cause us concern."

The Muslim World League has strongly denied providing any support to terrorism.

Staff writer Jerry Markon contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              224 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Raid Targets Islamic Charity in Falls Church

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 375 words


FBI and Homeland Security agents raided the Northern Virginia office of a
Saudi-based charity that has been under scrutiny for possible terrorist ties and
detained one of its employees on immigration charges, officials said yesterday.

The Muslim World League office in Falls Church had also been searched in 2002 in
a dramatic series of raids of Muslim organizations in Northern Virginia. The
charity has not been charged.

Abdullah Alnoshan, 44, a Saudi citizen who worked at the charity, was arrested
at 6 a.m. Friday at his house in Alexandria, according to officials of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

Agents working through a joint terrorism task force searched his home and then
his office at 360 S. Washington St. in Falls Church, officials said. They
removed computers, photographs and immigration documents, said Allan Doody,
special agent in charge of the ICE office.

Alnoshan was charged with immigration fraud. According to an affidavit in U.S.
District Court in Alexandria, Alnoshan had been sponsored by the Muslim World
League for a work visa to do public relations and religious work. Instead, he
served as director of the charity, the document said.

Also charged in the case was Khalid Fadlalla, a Sudanese citizen who works at
the Muslim World League office in New York. Fadlalla, who also was arrested
Friday, had signed the forms petitioning for a work visa for his Saudi
colleague, according to court documents and officials.

Ashraf Nubani, an attorney involved in the case, said Alnoshan plans to plead
not guilty.

In recent years, U.S. officials have filed immigration charges against hundreds
of people whose names have emerged in the course of terrorism investigations.

U.S. agencies have been investigating the Muslim World League for years because
of suspicions that it knowingly or unknowingly provided funds to Osama bin
Laden. A senior Treasury Department official, Stuart Levey, told a Senate
hearing on terror financing this month that the Muslim World League and a few
other Saudi charities "continue to cause us concern."

The Muslim World League has strongly denied providing any support to terrorism.

Staff writer Jerry Markon contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              225 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 26, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Study Paints Bleak Picture Of Immigrant Health Care

BYLINE: Ceci Connolly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 769 words


Regardless of age, legal status or insurance coverage, immigrants, on average,
receive about half the health care services provided to native-born Americans,
according to findings released yesterday that immediately fueled the debate over
tightening immigration policies.

Immigrants received an average of $1,139 worth of care, compared with $2,564 for
non-immigrants, according to the analysis, published in the August issue of the
American Journal of Public Health. The gap was especially pronounced among
immigrant children, who received one-quarter the care given to U.S.-born
youngsters.

"Our study lays to rest the myth that expensive care for immigrants is
responsible for our nation's high health costs," said co-author Sarita Mohanty,
an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Southern California.
"The truth is, immigrants get far less care than other Americans."

The report is based on government data that tabulated health spending for 21,000
people in 1998, the most recent year for which figures were available. The
analysis includes legal and illegal immigrants.

"If we think our high health care costs are due to immigrants flocking to our
shores, we're wrong," said co-author David Himmelstein of Harvard Medical
School. Although immigrants accounted for 10 percent of the population, they
consumed 8 percent of total health services, the study found.

Some immigration experts, however, said that tracking per capita spending
ignores the larger societal costs of a growing immigrant population that is far
less likely to have health insurance.

"The fact that immigrants, when uninsured, might use 27 percent less medical
care doesn't change the fact that they're 200 percent more likely to be
uninsured in the first place," said Steven Camarota, research director at the
Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that favors strict
controls on immigration. "Why have a system that allows in so many people who
aren't self-sufficient?"

Immigrants account for 18 percent of the costs associated with the uninsured  --
expenses likely to be borne by taxpayers and charities, Camarota said.

Both sides said financial, cultural and language differences all make it hard
for immigrants to afford care, understand medical advice or embrace
recommendations from American doctors and nurses.

A much higher percentage of adult immigrants lack a high school education, which
makes it difficult for them to navigate the health care system, said Elena Rios,
president of the National Hispanic Medical Association.

"They don't understand the lingo," such as what a cholesterol reading signifies,
she said. "Because of limited education levels, you can't connect the dots and
think about what prevention like physical exercise means in terms of the future
and things like heart disease and cancer."

Immigrants often live in low-income neighborhoods with fewer hospitals, clinics,
physicians and pharmacies, she said. And many Latin Americans, coming from
countries with government-run health systems, are unfamiliar with the concept of
buying insurance.

In addition, many immigrants do not qualify for government health programs that
are targeted at specific groups such as retirees, American Indians and veterans,
Camarota said.

Over the long term, Himmelstein said, the potential ramifications for children
are most alarming. The data showed immigrant children had fewer doctor visits,
took less medication and made fewer trips to the emergency room. But their
emergency room costs were nearly triple those for non-immigrant children,
suggesting that immigrant families missed routine checkups and waited until a
condition was more serious before seeking treatment, Himmelstein said.

It is far more likely, he said, that immigrant children do not receive standard
vaccinations and let chronic problems such as asthma go untreated.

Even better-educated, insured immigrants  --  and U.S.-born minorities  --
received less care, probably because of racism and cultural differences, Mohanty
said.

The paper's authors, who are active in the liberal Physicians for a National
Health Program, said one solution would be to provide everyone with basic health
coverage. Short of that, they advocated lifting restrictions on government
health programs and easing entry into employer-provided health plans.

Camarota, who agreed that legal immigrants should have greater access to care,
said lawmakers need to take a more critical look at who is allowed into the
United States. He said, "The solution to the problem is make them go home or not
let them in in the first place."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              226 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             July 30, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A07

LENGTH: 542 words


ARKADELPHIA, Ark.  --  About 30 children, some as young as 3 months old, were
left without their parents after immigration agents raided a poultry plant and
took the parents away to face possible deportation.

While some of the arrested workers were able to call and arrange care for their
children, others were not, and a local church  helped make arrangements.

The mayor said what happened to the children was a shame.

"A lot of those families had kids in day care in different places, and they
didn't know why Mommy and Daddy didn't come pick them up," Arkadelphia Mayor
Charles Hollingshead said.

Federal agents arrested 119 people Tuesday in a raid that was triggered after a
former worker at Petit Jean Poultry said she supplied others with fake
identification cards. Authorities said 115 were from Mexico, two were from
Honduras, and the others were from El Salvador and Guatemala.

Temple Black, a spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
office in New Orleans, said Friday that  the people arrested  were asked whether
they had children and they all said they did not.

"We interviewed every person and asked that specific question, and we were told
that there were none," he said. Black later said that some of those arrested
told agents that their children were with relatives.

Clark County Sheriff Troy Tucker said agents failed to tell his agency about the
raid.

If they had, deputies would have made sure the immigration officials knew about
the children, some of whom had been in the local  schools for years, he said.

*  ELKO, Nev.  --  More than 20 vehicles collided Friday on Interstate 80 in
northeastern Nevada after drivers were blinded by swirling dust and ash, killing
at least four people and injuring a dozen others.

*  FRESNO, Calif.  --  Lightning struck a group of Boy Scouts taking shelter
from a storm, killing the troop leader Steve McCullagh, 29, and leaving Ryan
Collins, 13, brain-dead in the latest tragedy to befall the organization this
week, authorities and the teenager's grandfather said. Six others were injured
when the lightning bolt made a direct strike on a tarp the Scouts had set up in
a meadow in Sequoia National Park on Thursday.

*  AVON, Conn.  --  A chain-reaction crash that started when a dump truck
slammed into a commuter bus killed four people and critically injured four
others, police said.

*  LAKELAND, Fla.  --  A mobile home belonging to a gay couple was torched, and
an epithet was spray-painted on the front steps, authorities said. Paul Day, 25,
and Christopher Robertson, 23, returned home from errands Monday to find their
house in Lakeland burned.

*  COLUMBUS, Ohio  --  A former top aide to Gov. Bob Taft (R) pleaded no contest
to failing to report stays at a coin dealer's Florida home, making him the first
person convicted in Ohio's investment scandal. Brian Hicks, who was Taft's chief
of staff before becoming a  lobbyist, was found guilty and fined $1,000 after
entering the plea on a misdemeanor ethics charge. According to the complaint,
filed Thursday, Hicks used the $1.3 million home of coin dealer and prominent
GOP donor Tom Noe in Islamorada, Fla., at "less than fair market value" in March
2002 and March 2003.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              227 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 2, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Customs Jails 1,000 Suspected Gang Members;
11 in D.C. Area Arrested;
MS-13 Is a Main Target

BYLINE: Dan Eggen, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A02

LENGTH: 683 words


Federal immigration and customs officers have arrested more than 1,000 suspected
gang members and associates so far this year as part of a nationwide campaign
aimed at deporting illegal immigrants with suspected ties to violent criminal
organizations, officials said yesterday.

Much like similar efforts after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks to target suspected
terrorist sympathizers, the Department of Homeland Security's anti-gang program
seeks to use immigration laws to remove many alleged gang members from the
country rather than pursue them through U.S. criminal courts, officials said.

The campaign, dubbed Operation Community Shield and overseen by the Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) division, has resulted in arrests of 1,057 alleged
gang members over the past five months  --  including 582 suspects apprehended
during a concerted push in the last two weeks of July. Eleven of the suspects
were arrested in the Washington area, officials said.

The operation got its start in March as a way to target Mara Salvatrucha, or
MS-13, a violent street organization active in Northern Virginia and other parts
of the South. But the program has quickly expanded to encompass alleged members
of 80 gangs in 25 states, including Latin Kings, Asian Boyz and Jamaican Posse.

"Street gangs in America have grown and expanded their influence to an alarming
level, marked by increased violence and criminal activity," Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff said at a news conference announcing the results of
the operation. "These gangs pose a severe threat to public safety, and their
growth must not go unchallenged."

The crackdown comes as part of a renewed concentration on violent street gangs
by the federal law enforcement agencies after several years of focusing
primarily on terrorism issues.

Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales is forming a special anti-gang task force,
while Congress is debating proposals to lengthen prison sentences for
gang-related crimes and to make it easier to deport suspected gang members. The
Justice Department estimates that more than 750,000 gang members are active
across the United States.

Under the ICE anti-gang program, local and state police departments have
supplied federal immigration and customs agents with the names of thousands of
suspected gang members. Federal agents are comparing those lists with federal
immigration databases to target members or associates who are in the country
illegally or who have committed serious crimes that make them eligible for
deportation, officials said.

Chertoff said that more than 900 of those arrested so far are eligible for
deportation. The rest will probably be prosecuted for crimes including
immigration violations and illegal possession of a firearm, officials said.

"I have to say we're surprised by the numbers we're encountering," John P.
Clark, deputy assistant secretary at ICE, said in an interview. "Violent gang
members have to be on the top of the list of our priorities."

The 11 people arrested in the D.C. area were  Northern Virginia-based members or
affiliates of MS-13, which is considered the largest and most violent street
gang in Northern Virginia. Three will face criminal charges in federal court of
reentering the United States after being deported and possessing fraudulent
immigration papers, said Allan Doody, special agent in charge of ICE's
Washington field office. The other eight are being held for deportation
proceedings.

Several of those arrested have convictions on charges such as robbery, assault
and battery, and brandishing a firearm, Doody said. Most are in their
mid-twenties. He said none is known to have connections to major MS-13 cases
that have been prosecuted in federal court in Northern Virginia, such as the
murder of Brenda Paz, a 17-year-old federal witness. Federal prosecutors in
Alexandria have been investigating MS-13 since at least 2001.

Doody said the 11 people  --  nine in Northern Virginia and two in the District
--  were arrested between July 19 and July 22.

Staff writer Jerry Markon contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              228 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 2, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Latino Restaurant Workers Offered Free Financial Management Classes

BYLINE: Krissah Williams, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D04

LENGTH: 597 words


A group of Latino immigrants in the Washington region will receive free
financial education designed to teach them how to manage their money. The course
will be offered in Spanish to Pollo Campero's 180 employees in Prince George's
County, Montgomery County and Northern Virginia during three classes this month.

The local Pollo Campero franchises, part of a popular Guatemalan chicken
restaurant chain, were selected as the pilot for the financial courses because
most of its employees are low-income immigrants from Central America.
Instructors from Casa de Maryland, a nonprofit immigrant advocacy group in
Silver Spring, will use Spanish-language texts provided by Freddie Mac to teach
how to establish a credit history, rent an apartment, buy a home or car and pay
for college.

Pollo Campero employees are a prime population for common financial problems
that plague the Latino community, said Gustavo Torres, executive director of
Casa de Maryland. According to studies by the Pew Hispanic Center, 22 percent of
Latinos have no credit history, compared with 4 percent of whites and 3 percent
of blacks. About 42 percent of Latino immigrants do not use banks or credit
unions.

"This is a large number of people who are carrying their money around in their
pockets," Torres said yesterday at a press conference at the Pollo Campero in
Wheaton.

For immigrants, the biggest barrier to opening checking accounts and
establishing credit is lack of knowledge about the financial laws and customs in
the United States. Casa de Maryland's instructors said many undocumented
immigrants do not realize that they can open bank accounts without driver's
licenses or Social Security numbers. "All you need is a tax identification
number or a passport," said Claudia Rodriguez, a financial literacy teacher at
Casa de Maryland.

Gustavo Morales, 26, a Pollo Campero cashier, moved to Maryland from Guatemala
City only four months ago. He lives with his wife and two children in a Wheaton
apartment. He has opened a bank account but says he wants to learn how to buy
his own home. "The laws and norms in each country are different," he said in
Spanish.

Pollo Campero is a well-known brand within the local Latino community. Along
with the Wheaton location, the company has restaurants in Herndon, Langley Park
and Falls Church. If the pilot program goes well, Casa de Maryland plans to work
with Freddie Mac to offer financial education to employees of other Latino
restaurants, small businesses and churches.

Alicia Machado, a nanny from La Paz, El Salvador, took a course similar to the
one being offered to Pollo Campero employees at Casa de Maryland three Saturdays
in February. She already owns a home with her husband, but left the class with
more information about the home equity that she has accrued.

"Now I want to buy a second home," she said.

The classes also will help Latino immigrants discern fraudulent financial
schemes, said Maryland Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez (D-Montgomery), who came to the
Pollo Campero in Wheaton yesterday to support the financial education program.
Maryland legislators recently passed a law that makes it illegal for notaries to
give their customers legal advice or assist them with the immigration process.
The different status of notaries in Latin America has led to problems for some
immigrants who thought notaries were authorized to give them legal advice.

"It bothers me to see how our community is victimized by so many fraudulent
scams," Gutierrez said. "Our people are [often] innocent victims, and this
program will bring education."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              229 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 3, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

When Home Is Neither Here Nor There;
Advocates on Both Sides of Immigration Debate Question Rules That Leave Many in
Legal Limbo

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1392 words


It's been two years since Mela Garza emerged into the sign-waving crowd at
Dulles International Airport, dropped her suitcases and fell into the arms of
her husband, the genial friend from her Guatemalan village whom she'd married in
2000 and had barely seen since.

It was an iconic American scene: an immigrant wife joining her husband, who'd
left for the United States years earlier. But unlike the women who passed
through Ellis Island, Garza did not automatically get full immigrant status. She
arrived on a special "spouse visa" and is still waiting to become a U.S.
permanent resident.

"I'm a bit desperate. You always want to be a legal permanent resident, to feel
more secure," said the 29-year-old Gaithersburg woman, whose husband, a
permanent resident here, married her after a long-distance courtship.

As the debate over legal-vs.-illegal immigration heats up across the country,
there is a large pool of people who fall somewhere in the middle. They have been
nicknamed the "quasi-legal"  --  tens of thousands of people in the Washington
area, and as many as 1.5 million nationwide, who have temporary papers or are in
line for residency.

They are people like Garza, who must wait a number of years and fulfill various
requirements to become full-fledged permanent residents, the first step toward
U.S. citizenship. They also include a quarter-million Salvadorans who have been
granted temporary legal permits in recent years, elevating many from illegal
status but giving them no path toward citizenship.

To those on both sides of the immigration debate, the large number of people in
limbo is a sign of a dysfunctional system. Immigrant advocates say foreigners
with a deep stake in U.S. society are enduring great difficulties in settling
here. Critics of high immigration levels say the quasi-legal reflect a
government that passes tough laws but is reluctant to enforce them.

"The fact that there are hundreds of thousands of people who aren't really
illegal aliens  --  but they're not really legal aliens either  --  is
ridiculous," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which urges tougher immigration enforcement. "It's a sign
of the deep ambivalence that permeates our immigration system."

Garza offers one example of how people land in immigration limbo. Her husband,
Angel, sneaked into the United States in 1994 and eventually found a Maryland
employer to sponsor him for a "green card," or permanent residency. In 1998,
while vacationing in his home town, he struck up a romance with Garza, a
childhood friend.

Two years later, he returned to marry her and sponsored her to immigrate. But
because Congress sets annual quotas for many categories of immigrants, she had
to wait in Guatemala while her case worked its way to the front of the line.

"I spent my time reading his letters, to remember him," said Garza, one of 11
children in a family that scratched out a living as farmers. She could call her
husband only once every few weeks, when she could get a ride to the nearest
public phone, an hour away.

Concerned about such separations, Congress created the "V" visa, which allowed
spouses and children of permanent residents to join them in the United States
while waiting for their cases to move forward. That was Garza's ticket to the
United States.

But the visas are available only to a small group  --  immigrants who sought
residency before December 2000 and have been waiting at least three years for
their green-card applications to be considered. Those whose petitions have been
filed since then don't qualify. Such spouses and children may have to wait as
long as seven years to join their families, because of the large number of
applicants and processing delays.

"It's a big problem," said Celia Rivas, an immigration lawyer at the Spanish
Catholic Center in Gaithersburg. "That's why some of the families decide to just
bring their children" to this country illegally while waiting for their papers
to come through.

Other people, she said, naively assume that once a U.S. relative has applied to
sponsor them for immigration, they can simply travel to this country and get a
work permit. They are shocked to discover that they can be deported like anyone
else if they don't have legal status.

David Martin, who served as general counsel of the former Immigration and
Naturalization Service, estimated in a recent study that hundreds of thousands
of illegal immigrants are actually immigrants-in-waiting, sponsored by relatives
or businesses to become permanent residents but who are waiting for their turn.

He noted that authorities are often reluctant to deport soon-to-be-legal wives
or children of permanent residents. "People see that as too harsh," he said.

But tolerance of a not-yet-legal population carries its own problems. It sends a
mixed message about enforcement of immigration law, Martin said. And some U.S.
officials see a security risk. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said
in a recent speech that some immigrants don't get a thorough security check
until they're about to receive their green card  --  perhaps years after they've
entered the country.

If the quasi-legal status poses a problem for the government, it also
complicates the lives of immigrants.

Juan, 31, a Colombian professional, came to the United States on a work visa in
October 2000, employed by a company that laid underwater cables. When the firm
shut down six months later, his visa lapsed. But he found a job as a supervisor
at a maintenance company, which sponsored him to get permanent residency.

"I thought I could do it in a year. But the reality was different," said the
Silver Spring resident, who spoke on the condition that his last name not be
used because he is still awaiting legal status.

Because of backlogs, it was only this year that Juan cleared the first hurdle in
his quest for permanent residency  --  approval of his petition by the state
department of labor. His application now goes to immigration authorities, where
it could face further delays because of annual caps on the number of
business-sponsored immigrants. He has entered a special government program that
will allow him eventually to get a green card without having to leave the
country.

The Colombian has worked for four years at the maintenance firm and pays taxes.
But until he gains legal status, he can't go home to see his relatives or
otherwise travel abroad.

"This is the high price you pay," said Juan, who has two U.S.-born daughters and
said he wanted to live in the United States because of the better future it
would offer his children. Without a Social Security number, he has struggled to
get credit and worries about renewing his driver's license.

"When you're in this situation, you feel like a phantom. You live, but you feel
that you don't count," he said.

Not all of the quasi-legal face such problems. Garza, the Guatemalan immigrant,
is entitled to a work permit while she waits. Recently, she became eligible to
apply to convert to permanent-resident status.

However, she has hit another roadblock: Because her husband bought a landscaping
business, his income dipped below the level required of those sponsoring
immigrants. So Garza plans to apply next year, after her husband's business
expands.

Hundreds of thousands of other quasi-legal immigrants also are allowed work
permits and Social Security numbers. But some still feel mired in uncertainty.

That's particularly true of the more than 300,000 immigrants with temporary
protected status, or TPS, which is granted to people from certain countries
experiencing war or natural disasters.

Immigrants are generally grateful to have TPS because it allows them to work
legally. But the program does not lead to permanent residency, and does not
allow most recipients to travel abroad. Year after year, many people with TPS
have their status extended, and they increasingly settle into U.S. lives.

Martin, the former INS attorney, said it is important to ensure that such
programs are temporary. Otherwise, he said, policymakers may become reluctant to
approve them, even for people from countries in turmoil.

"But the reality is still, the longer someone's here, the harder it is . . . to
contemplate an enforcement action that would send them home," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              230 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 7, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Somali Influx Strains Ohio City;
New Immigrants 'Overwhelm the System' in Columbus

BYLINE: Nick Juliano, Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A16

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio


Bags of clothes, toys and other family belongings spill out of lockers along one
wall of the shelter, and brightly colored African blouses and wraparound
garments are draped over fences outside to air.

From cubicles tucked in a corner of the YWCA Interfaith Hospitality Network
shelter, workers contact other poverty-relief agencies. They are trying to find
affordable housing and jobs for about a dozen Somali Bantu families who have
lived for months in a center designed for stays of  a few weeks.

Columbus has 30,000 Somali residents, more than any other U.S. city except
Minneapolis. The Ohio state capital is experiencing a wave of secondary
migration  unmatched in other cities.

Social service agencies say they were not prepared to deal with the influx.
"It's a significant strain," said Angela K. Plummer, director of Community
Refugee/Immigrant Services. "We're a refugee agency, so people go, 'Here are
these refugees; help them.' "

About 200 Somali Bantus arrived in Columbus from other U.S. cities in the past
six months, seeking jobs and affordable housing they heard earlier immigrants
found easily. Among them were 34 from Memphis; 30 from Atlanta; 26 from
Hartford, Conn.; 22 from Chicago; and 18 from Utica, N.Y.

At the shelter, African languages mix with English as parents and staff members
try to corral a dozen or so children to help clean the open room filled with
benches, tables and cots  --  a constant  task with so many people in such a
small space.

Isha Hussein Gudey arrived from Chicago in February because she was no longer
able to pay her $800 monthly rent. Median monthly rent for apartments in
Columbus is lower, ranging from $683 for two bedrooms to $989 for four.

"The priority right now is to get housing," Gudey, speaking through an
interpreter, said in her native Maay Maay.

Yet housing regulations prevent having more than two people per bedroom in
apartments, and affordable three- and four-bedroom apartments are scarce.

Gudey stays at the shelter with her three youngest children  --  three others
are at school. Her husband, Sheikh Mohamed Abdalla, is trying to learn English,
hoping to find a job once the family finds a home.

At the beginning of the month, five families totaling 37 people were staying at
the shelter. A month earlier, about a dozen families totaling  about 90 people
made the shelter their temporary home. Families are bused to churches at night
to sleep.

Twenty-two Somali families totaling 95 people are living in long-term homeless
shelters designed for stays  as long as three months. Those shelters are run by
other social service organizations.

"They did overwhelm the system, and they caught people off guard," said Daniel
James Van Lehman, deputy director of the National Somali Bantu Project at
Portland State University in Oregon.

Most of Ohio's first wave of Somalis started arriving in the mid-1990s to escape
civil war. About 400 Bantus, a group whose ancestors were brought to Somalia as
slaves in the 19th century, came to Columbus last year.

Most now have jobs and houses or apartments, and are familiar with most aspects
of American culture.

Franklin County had $639,704 in federal grants to help the first wave of
immigrants find jobs, houses and health care, enroll their children in school
and learn English. A coalition of government and social service organizations
will request more money, said Lance Porter, a spokesman for the county's
Department of Job and Family Services.

Community Refugee/Immigrant Services receives a federal grant to deal with
unexpected arrivals, but that is enough for only one employee, who cannot handle
all cases, Plummer said. The money helps migrants find jobs but not housing.

In Columbus, Somali community organizations are translating for the recent
migrants and cooking authentic Somali food.

Community leaders agree the city was not prepared to handle the influx.

"The [federal] settlement plan was not executed the way it should have been,"
said Fatuma Bihi, a spokeswoman for Somali Women and Children's Alliance, which
also helps immigrants find homes and jobs. She said Somalis are used to living
in close-knit villages and were not accustomed to being spread throughout
different communities.

Many new refugees have no family or friends in Columbus  --  unlike other
secondary migrants  --  and come  because they have a vague impression of a
thriving community.

"They're arriving without any direct connection [to Columbus] or even job
prospect," said Dennis Evans of  the state Department of Job and Family
Services.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              231 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 9, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Kilgore Pulls Day Laborer Debate Into Va. Campaign

BYLINE: Michael D. Shear, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 969 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND Aug. 8


Republican gubernatorial candidate Jerry W. Kilgore said Monday that Virginia
should not pay for centers to help day laborers, calling them the latest
examples of society rewarding illegal immigrants.

Kilgore said the creation of publicly financed gathering areas such as the one
proposed in Herndon undermines the rule of law and "denigrates" citizens who
immigrated to the country legally.

"We face a fundamental decision in Virginia," Kilgore told reporters in a
conference call. "Will we reward illegal behavior with hard-earned dollars from
law-abiding citizens? I say the answer to this question should be an easy one:
No."

With three months left until the Nov. 8 election, Kilgore's comments injected a
volatile issue into the statewide campaign. By objecting to the proposed day
laborer site in Herndon, Kilgore transformed an issue for 23,000 residents of
Herndon into a statewide debate on questions that encompass law and ethnicity.

Supporters say creating worker sites with public funds represents the best hope
to resolve the community disputes that arise when day laborers congregate at
informal hiring  sites, such as convenience store parking lots. But the idea of
the subsidized centers has become a flash point for people who object to some of
the changes they believe immigration has brought to neighborhoods and downtowns.

Claire Guthrie Gastañaga, a lobbyist who represents immigrant groups, said that
Kilgore "seems determined to lead from ignorance" and that he is "playing to the
tune of fear mongers and worse."

Loudoun County Supervisor Eugene A. Delgaudio (R-Sterling), whose district is
near the proposed Herndon site, praised Kilgore for making sure the state "will
not assist in the perpetration of an illegal act."

Kilgore also endorsed proposed state legislation to give local police broad
authority to detain people for immigration violations after they have been
arrested for another crime.

Proponents of that position have said states must step in where the federal
government has failed to enforce immigration law. Opponents, including some
local police officials, have said police departments cannot perform such tasks
effectively.

Kilgore's opponents in the governor's race accused him of political opportunism.

A spokeswoman for Democratic Lt. Gov. Timothy M. Kaine said Kilgore is "putting
a political ideology over a practical solution."

State Sen. H. Russell Potts (R-Winchester), who is running for governor as an
independent, called Kilgore's position "a sound-bite, hot-button wedge issue . .
. that takes people's minds off what the real issues are: transportation,
education and health care."

State political observers and national experts on immigration said the move is
bold but potentially risky for Kilgore, who had not previously highlighted his
long-standing views on immigration. Across the country, local and state
candidates are increasingly focused on that issue but with mixed success at the
ballot box, they said.

"It's percolating up from below, as states are being forced more and more to
deal with the consequences of federal failure to enforce the immigration laws,"
said Mike Hethmon, counsel for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which agrees with Kilgore about the centers.

"Candidates are naturally  --  both for principled and expedient reasons  --
tapping into the pervasive sense of frustration with the issue," Hethmon said.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
supports the day laborer sites, said Kilgore could "emerge as this decade's Pete
Wilson," the former California governor whose Republican Party had its
popularity decline after he became a symbol for a hard line on illegal
immigration.

"When [Wilson] first started, it looked like it was a brilliant, if
controversial, political strategy. It turned out to be a disaster," Sharry said.
"It drove immigrants to the citizenship lines and the voting booth to vote
against Republicans for a decade."

Aides to Kilgore said they are confident that the day laborer issue  --  and
Kilgore's tough stand against illegal immigration generally  --  will help them
counter Kaine's strength in the inner suburbs of Northern Virginia, which tend
to support Democrats.

In the past several years, Kilgore has supported efforts to bar illegal
immigrants from access to state services.

He led efforts to deny in-state tuition to illegal immigrants and supported
efforts after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to tighten access to
Virginia driver's licenses. Last year, he supported a law that will go into
effect in January requiring local and state governments to check for legal
status before offering benefits.

"There are millions of Americans who have immigrated here and have worked hard
to follow the rules of our society," Kilgore said Monday. "We must also resolve
never [to] undercut our laws and our stability by rewarding those who . . . are
in this country illegally."

Robert D. Holsworth, director of the Center for Public Policy at Virginia
Commonwealth University, said Kilgore's political approach is starkly different
from that of recent candidates in both major parties.

He noted that Gov. Mark R. Warner (D) and his Republican opponent in 2001, Mark
L. Earley, made serious efforts to court Hispanic voters and other immigrants.
Both candidates went out of their way to speak Spanish when they could,
Holsworth said. Earley often touted his time as a missionary in the Philippines.

"Kilgore has taken a very different tack," Holsworth said, adding that Kilgore
is trying to tap into "populist anger at what he believes is looking the other
way about illegal immigration. He believes it politically advantageous in
Northern Virginia to highlight this issue and make it a central part of his
campaign."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              232 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 9, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Man Suspected Of Bin Laden Link Accused of Fraud

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 568 words


A Northern Virginia man who allegedly delivered a satellite-phone battery to
Afghanistan for Osama bin Laden's use in 1998 is now facing charges of
immigration and mortgage-loan fraud, according to court documents unsealed in
recent days.

Tarik Hamdi, 43, a naturalized U.S. citizen who had been living in Herndon, is
believed to be out of the country and has not been arrested, said Dean Boyd, a
spokesman with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement division of the Homeland
Security Department.

It was not clear whether Hamdi, an immigrant from Iraq, had hired a lawyer. The
phone listed for his home in Herndon was disconnected.

Hamdi delivered a satellite phone battery to a Bin Laden aide while he was in
Afghanistan in May 1998 helping to set up an interview for ABC News, according
to an affidavit by David Kane, an agent with the immigration division. Bin Laden
used that phone in connection with the deadly bombings of U.S. embassies in
Kenya and Tanzania that year, according to the affidavit, which was in support
of a 2002 search warrant and was  unsealed last week.

It was unclear how long Hamdi has been out of the country, but the grand jury
charged him in a sealed indictment in May. A call to his former employer, the
International Institute for Islamic Thought in Herndon, was not returned
yesterday.

ABC News did not respond to a request for more information about its
relationship with Hamdi.

Hamdi has not been charged for delivering the battery. A friend, who spoke on
condition of anonymity, said Hamdi had carried it to Afghanistan as a favor for
an acquaintance. Still, the act apparently attracted scrutiny from U.S.
anti-terrorism agents, who searched Hamdi's home in March 2002 as part of a
blitz of raids on Muslim charities in Northern Virginia. None of those charities
has been accused of a crime.

The charges against Hamdi focus on a series of alleged omissions in Hamdi's
naturalization papers, as well as information he submitted on  mortgage-loan
applications.

According to the indictment in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Hamdi did not
state on his naturalization form that in 1994 he had been the U.S.
representative for the Committee for the Defense of Legitimate Rights in Saudi
Arabia, a London-based organization that has embraced many of bin Laden's views.

In addition, Hamdi did not acknowledge that he had tried to qualify for
immigration amnesty by claiming to have worked on a Texas farm in the mid-1980s,
the papers say. His application was denied after officials determined the farmer
who vouched for him was a phony, according to the indictment.

Hamdi emigrated from Iraq in 1983 on a student visa and eventually married a
U.S. citizen, who sponsored him for permanent residency, the court papers say.

U.S. officials have increasingly used immigration charges to lock up or deport
people who have come to their attention in terrorism investigations. Officials
say they must take every legal measure to preempt further attacks, including
using lesser charges when a terrorism case is difficult to build.

Islamic and civil-liberties groups have said the charges can amount to selective
prosecution of Muslims and Arabs.

Hamdi was also accused of committing wire fraud by receiving mortgage loans by
inflating his income on the applications. If found guilty of all the charges, he
could face up to 20 years in jail, court officials said.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              233 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 14, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Anti-Immigration Forces Focus on Herndon;
Council Votes Tuesday on Whether to Fund Gathering Site for Day Laborers

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C06

LENGTH: 807 words


As Herndon prepares to vote Tuesday on whether to designate an official
gathering spot for day laborers, what began as a neighborhood quandary is
evoking passions far beyond the town's borders.

Mark Williams, a guest host on WMAL-AM, exhorted his audience last week to line
up at Tuesday's Town Council meeting, "whether you're from Herndon or Timbuktu,"
to protest plans to use public money to create a new gathering site for the job
seekers, many of them undocumented immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

Council members "have absolutely no intention of following the law," Williams
boomed on "The Michael Graham Show" on Monday, broadcasting 3,000 miles away
from WFBK in Sacramento. "The issue you're trying to solve," he told listeners,
"is the fact that the United States has borders, and its citizens demand that
they be enforced."

That was not the kind of attention Herndon leaders and residents anticipated
when they began debating how to use local zoning and nuisance laws to deal with
growing anger at the large groups of often noisy and disruptive men who
congregate in parking lots and on sidewalks seeking work every morning.

But as the town of 22,000 near Dulles International Airport decides whether to
use public funds to set up an official site, Herndon has become the focal point
in a larger national debate over U.S. immigration policy.

The 150 men who  gather daily at a 7-Eleven are featured on the Web sites of
national groups fighting illegal immigration, including a white supremacist site
offering to help organize protests before the vote.

Members of Congress from Colorado and Iowa who advocate stricter border controls
have sent aides to testify before the local Planning Commission. Another WMAL
host, Chris Core, has devoted 11 shows to the issue since July. Republican Jerry
W. Kilgore's campaign for Virginia governor hit the front page last week when he
pledged to oppose all publicly funded worker halls such as the one proposed in
Herndon.

And Lou Dobbs, the CNN anchor who often denounces undocumented workers on his
nightly show, last week featured a state delegate from Prince William County
weighing in on an informal day-laborer site in Woodbridge.

"My aide calls out to me, 'Hey boss, Lou Dobbs wants to talk to you about
illegal aliens,' " Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter (R) said, recalling with wonder
the interest from national television. "This day-laborer thing is symptomatic of
a larger problem: Our borders are not secure."

Day laborers are causing tension in communities across the country,  the most
visible sign of the influx of immigrants pouring across U.S. borders, encouraged
by what many perceive as a neglectful federal policy. In Herndon, which has the
Washington region's highest concentration of foreign-born residents, pressure
from frustrated homeowners catapulted tensions with workers into the news. Media
reports then caught the eye of lawmakers and public policymakers.

The current furor stands in contrast to the relative calm in Montgomery and
Arlington counties, where similar publicly funded sites have operated for
several years.

The debate is "truly the culmination of everything that's been going on after
9/11," said Jose Vanegas, a Colombian immigrant who has worked with the day
laborers. "The anti-immigrant sentiment has just been ratcheted up."

Herndon Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly supports the proposed hiring hall near the
Loudoun County border  --  and the $170,000 from Fairfax County that would help
fund it.

"If all everybody wants to talk about is national immigration policy, then
they're in the wrong forum," O'Reilly said. "The issue our council is trying to
address is too many people on a street corner looking for work."

Speakers at a Planning Commission hearing last month were told they could not
testify about the day-laborer site if they brought up immigration policy.

"It's unfortunate that a fellow from Sacramento is so concerned about our
community," said O'Reilly, referring to Williams's show.

Williams also appeared on the Fox cable channel's morning news show Wednesday to
talk about Herndon. He has never been there, but last week he urged listeners
opposed to day laborers to "melt the switchboard" at the town clerk's office.
The phone system was overwhelmed with calls, and the town manager unplugged the
phone lines for four days.

"For me to walk into Herndon, that was a piece of cake," said Williams, who
frequently takes on the issue of illegal immigration in his home state.

Core, the WMAL host, called the town a "beachhead," however unwitting, on which
opponents of illegal immigration can focus their frustration.

"Herndon is caught in a wave, whether they wanted to be or not," he said. "A
pressure valve has been released."

Core said he plans to broadcast his 6 to 9 p.m. show Tuesday from Herndon.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              234 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 14, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Foes Focus on Herndon;
Council Votes Tuesday on Funding Day-Laborer Site

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C01

LENGTH: 1230 words


As Herndon prepares to vote Tuesday on whether to designate an official
gathering spot for day laborers, what began as a neighborhood quandary is
evoking passions far beyond the town's borders.

Mark Williams, a guest host on WMAL-AM, exhorted his audience last week to line
up at Tuesday's Town Council meeting, "whether you're from Herndon or Timbuktu,"
to protest plans to use public money to create a new gathering site for the job
seekers, many of them undocumented immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

Council members "have absolutely no intention of following the law," Williams
boomed on "The Michael Graham Show" on Monday, broadcasting 3,000 miles away
from WFBK in Sacramento. "The issue you're trying to solve," he told listeners,
"is the fact that the United States has borders, and its citizens demand that
they be enforced."

That was not the kind of attention Herndon leaders and residents anticipated
when they began debating how to use local zoning and nuisance laws to deal with
growing anger at the large groups of often noisy and disruptive men who
congregate in parking lots and on sidewalks seeking work every morning.

But as the town of 22,000 near Dulles International Airport decides whether to
use public funds to set up an official site, Herndon has become the focal point
in a larger national debate over U.S. immigration policy.

The 150 men who  gather daily at a 7-Eleven  are featured on the Web sites of
national groups fighting illegal immigration, including a white supremacist site
offering to help organize protests before the vote.

Members of Congress from Colorado and Iowa who advocate stricter border controls
have sent aides to testify before the local Planning Commission. Another WMAL
host, Chris Core, has devoted 11 shows to the issue since July. Republican Jerry
W. Kilgore's campaign for Virginia governor hit the front page last week when he
pledged to oppose all publicly funded worker halls such as the one proposed in
Herndon.

And Lou Dobbs, the CNN anchor who often denounces undocumented workers on his
nightly show, last week featured a state delegate from Prince William County
weighing in on an informal day-laborer site in Woodbridge.

"My aide calls out to me, 'Hey boss, Lou Dobbs wants to talk to you about
illegal aliens,' " Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter (R) said, recalling with wonder
the interest from national television. "This day-laborer thing is symptomatic of
a larger problem: Our borders are not secure."

Day laborers are causing tension in communities across the country,  the most
visible sign of the influx of immigrants pouring across U.S. borders, encouraged
by what many perceive as a neglectful federal policy. In Herndon, which has the
Washington region's highest concentration of foreign-born residents, pressure
from frustrated homeowners catapulted tensions with workers into the news. Media
reports then caught the eye of lawmakers and public policymakers.

Local opponents of a day-laborer site also found an ally in a Town Council
member who framed her campaign around the issue and helped focus attention on
Herndon by appealing to national groups that fight illegal immigration. The
current furor stands in contrast to the relative calm in Montgomery and
Arlington counties, where similar publicly funded sites have operated for
several years.

National immigration rights groups have stayed on the sidelines, arguing that
Herndon's issue is local.

"We think the national groups have to let the local government deal with the
situation," said Michele Waslin, an executive of the National Council of La
Raza, an organization for the rights and welfare of Hispanics.

Local advocates for the day laborers, including the nonprofit umbrella group
that wants to build and operate the Herndon site, cast the debate as a human
rights issue, saying the workers are laying bricks, sweeping floors and pouring
blacktop so people like their critics can buy homes in such suburbs as Herndon.

Supporters also point out that some day laborers might be here illegally, but
many have working papers.

"We're not trying to deny that illegal immigration is a problem in our nation,"
said Joel Mills, a Herndon resident who serves on the executive board of Project
Hope and Harmony, which would operate the worker site. "But we are not the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency." The national groups opposing the
site, he said, "could care less what happens in Herndon."

Not so, said Bob Shoemaker, a Vienna homeowner. "Where the rubber hits the road
is at the local level," said Shoemaker, who works with Judicial Watch, a
self-styled "anti-corruption" group threatening to sue Herndon if it approves
taxpayer funding for the day laborers. "You have a classic case of illegal
people changing in a very serious way a small country town. It's what the
federal government has been ignoring."

The debate is "truly the culmination of everything that's been going on after
9/11," said Jose Vanegas, a Colombian immigrant who has worked with the day
laborers. "The anti-immigrant sentiment has just been ratcheted up."

Herndon Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly supports the proposed hiring hall near the
Loudoun County border  --  and the $170,000 from Fairfax County that would help
fund it.

"If all everybody wants to talk about is national immigration policy, then
they're in the wrong forum," O'Reilly said. "The issue our council is trying to
address is too many people on a street corner looking for work."

Speakers at a Planning Commission hearing last month were told they could not
testify about the day-laborer site if they brought up immigration policy.

"It's unfortunate that a fellow from Sacramento is so concerned about our
community," said O'Reilly, referring to Williams's show.

Williams also appeared on the Fox cable channel's morning news show Wednesday to
talk about Herndon. He has never been there, but last week he urged listeners
opposed to day laborers to "melt the switchboard" at the town clerk's office.
The phone system was overwhelmed with calls, and the town manager unplugged the
phone lines for four days.

"For me to walk into Herndon, that was a piece of cake," said Williams, who
frequently takes on the issue of illegal immigration in his home state.

Some say the influence of Town Council member Ann V. Null helped catapult
Herndon to the national stage.

Null has publicly opposed the day laborers and was censured last year by the
council for negative comments about immigrants, including one characterizing
them as "cooks, maids, janitors and gardeners."

Null said she called the Federation for American Immigration Reform in 2003,
when the Town Council started talking about a site for day laborers.

The group, which opposes illegal immigration, sent the council a letter
outlining its potential liability in publicly funding a facility that would
serve undocumented workers.

Since then, Null has been a guest on WMAL several times.

"The citizens' sentiment is there," she said. "It needed an avenue."

Core, the WMAL host, agreed, calling the town a "beachhead," however unwitting,
on which opponents of illegal immigration can focus their frustration.

"Herndon is caught in a wave, whether they wanted to be or not," he said. "A
pressure valve has been released."

Core said he plans to broadcast his 6 to 9 p.m. show Tuesday from Herndon.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              235 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Postpones Day-Laborer Decision;
Deluge of Speakers Prompts Delay

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 905 words


Concerns about property values, illegal immigration and human rights collided
last night in Herndon as passionate advocates for and against a tax-supported
site for day laborers lined up in an effort to sway the Town Council.

Nearly 150 people who had signed up to speak crowded into the town's small
municipal building for the fourth night of public hearings this summer, as the
council considered how to resolve problems created by scores of immigrants
congregating outside a 7-Eleven to seek construction work.

The number of speakers, each allotted three minutes, prompted the council to
postpone a vote on the issue, which has overwhelmed the town with publicity.

As people waited to take their seats in the cramped council chambers, zoning
officials covered the often-dry details of the proposal from a local social
service agency to set up an organized gathering spot for day laborers that would
replace the current unofficial site.

But outside the chambers, the battle lines were evident between advocates and
opponents of a publicly funded site. Supporters stood on one side of the street,
carrying signs that read "Ignorance Breeds Fear," referring to anti-immigrant
sentiment. A crowd gathered on the other side wearing, on their shirts, white
paper stars with a slash through the phrase "Day Labor Site." One sign stated:
"Start a Revolution and Hire an American."

Inside, the speakers' concerns ranged from human rights to property rights and
whether the mission of local government should include enforcement of what many
called the failure of federal authorities to police the country's borders.

"Do we want to live in a town full of prejudice, where people like me are not
welcome because we have an accent?" asked Ana Rochac, an immigrant from El
Salvador who owns a travel agency in town.

Other speakers expressed concern that the value of homes near the 7-Eleven has
declined because of the day laborers.

The prospect of spending taxpayer money on a day-laborers' site has polarized
Herndon, a Fairfax County town of 22,000 near Dulles International Airport.

With a supply of inexpensive housing and a robust demand for construction
workers in Northern Virginia's booming economy, the town has drawn many
newcomers from Mexico and Central America. They began gathering in the parking
lot to wait for work from contractors.

Town officials  --  responding to homeowners who complained about noise,
littering and an intimidating presence of up to 150 men every morning  --
considered a proposal from Project Hope and Harmony to establish a day-laborer
hiring center on the site of a vacated police station abutting a residential
neighborhood on the Loudoun County border.

But tensions over using $175,000 in public money to help fund the center
exploded this summer at several public hearings.

The town appears evenly split between those who say a publicly supported center
would be tantamount to endorsing illegal immigration and those who simply want
officials to deal with the situation at the 7-Eleven, which they see as a
nuisance.

Advocates for the day laborers say it is not their job to enforce immigration
law. They say the workers are helping the local economy by taking low-paying
jobs U.S.-born workers do not want.

The Planning Commission narrowly rejected the proposal at its early August
meeting, but the vote was not binding. The Town Council appeared divided before
last night's hearing, with Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly in favor of the site and
Ann V. Null, a member who has actively fought efforts to support undocumented
workers, opposed.

What began as a local battle moved to the national stage in recent weeks as part
of the larger debate about illegal immigration. WMAL-AM radio broadcast more
than a dozen shows on Herndon, including a call-in program with a
Sacramento-based guest host 10 days ago that prompted so many calls to the
Herndon Municipal Center that the town manager shut the switchboard for four
days.

Television networks have featured segments on the debate, and national
anti-immigration groups have made contact with local opponents of the worker
center. Judicial Watch, a self-styled anti-corruption group, has threatened to
sue the town if it spends public money on the site.

Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton told the council last night that "support
for this site is not an option" and compared the neighborhood around the
7-Eleven to a red-light district.

Other speakers challenged Herndon to treat all its residents with equal respect.
"Don't allow this issue to be decided by false facts, half-truths and unfounded
fears," town resident Bill Perry said. "If you build a community on hate, you
will hate the community you build."

Elsewhere in the region, Arlington has set up a gathering spot for day laborers
in Shirlington, and Montgomery County recently approved an employment center
based in Wheaton that will run several sites through a nonprofit group.

Herndon, a former dairy farm community less than 20 miles from Washington,
counts foreign-born residents as 38 percent of its population, according to the
2000 Census. The proportion of white residents dropped in the 1990s to 58
percent from 78 percent.

"There's an us-against-them feeling that is full-blown in Herndon right now,"
said Jose Vanegas of Sterling, a Colombian immigrant who has worked with the
laborers. "People feel you're either for them or against them."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              236 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Postpones Day-Labor Decision;
Deluge of Speakers Prompts Delay

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 908 words


Concerns about property values, illegal immigration and human rights collided
last night in Herndon as passionate advocates for and against a tax-supported
site for day laborers lined up in an effort to sway the Town Council.

Nearly 150 people who had signed up to speak crowded into the town's small
municipal building for the fourth night of public hearings this summer, as the
council considered how to resolve problems created by scores of immigrants
congregating outside a 7-Eleven to seek construction work.

The number of speakers, each allotted three minutes, prompted the council to
postpone a vote on the issue, which has overwhelmed the town with publicity.

As people waited to take their seats in the cramped council chambers, zoning
officials covered the often-dry details of the proposal from a local social
service agency to set up an organized gathering spot for day laborers that would
replace the current unofficial site.

But outside the chambers, the battle lines were evident between advocates and
opponents of a publicly funded site. Supporters stood on one side of the street,
carrying signs that read "Ignorance Breeds Fear," referring to anti-immigrant
sentiment. A crowd gathered on the other side wearing, on their shirts, white
paper stars with a slash through the phrase "Day Labor Site." One sign stated:
"Start a Revolution and Hire an American."

Inside, the speakers' concerns ranged from human rights to property rights and
whether the mission of local government should include enforcement of what many
called the failure of federal authorities to police the country's borders.

"Do we want to live in a town full of prejudice, where people like me are not
welcome because we have an accent?" asked Ana Rochac, an immigrant from El
Salvador who owns a travel agency in town.

Other speakers expressed concern that the value of homes near the 7-Eleven has
declined because of the day laborers.

The prospect of spending taxpayer money on a day-laborers' site has polarized
Herndon, a Fairfax County town of 22,000 near Dulles International Airport.

With a supply of inexpensive housing and a robust demand for construction
workers in Northern Virginia's booming economy, the town has drawn many
newcomers from Mexico and Central America. They began gathering in the parking
lot to wait for work from contractors.

Town officials  --  responding to homeowners who complained about noise,
littering and an intimidating presence of up to 150 men every morning  --
considered a proposal from Project Hope and Harmony to establish a day-laborer
hiring center on the site of a vacated police station abutting a residential
neighborhood on the Loudoun County border.

But tensions over using $175,000 in public money to help fund the center
exploded this summer at several public hearings.

The town appears evenly split between those who say a publicly supported center
would be tantamount to endorsing illegal immigration and those who simply want
officials to deal with the situation at the 7-Eleven, which they see as a
nuisance.

Advocates for the day laborers say it is not their job to enforce immigration
law. They say the workers are helping the local economy by taking low-paying
jobs that U.S.-born workers do not want.

The Planning Commission narrowly rejected the proposal at its early August
meeting, but the vote was not binding. The Town Council appeared divided before
last night's hearing, with Mayor Michael L. O'Reilly in favor of the site and
Ann V. Null, a member who has actively fought efforts to support undocumented
workers, opposed.

What began as a local battle moved to the national stage in recent weeks as part
of the larger debate about illegal immigration. WMAL-AM radio broadcast more
than a dozen shows on Herndon, including a call-in program with a
Sacramento-based guest host 10 days ago that prompted so many calls to the
Herndon Municipal Center that the town manager shut the switchboard for four
days.

Television networks have featured segments on the debate, and national
anti-immigration groups have made contact with local opponents of the worker
center. Judicial Watch, a self-styled anti-corruption group, has threatened to
sue the town if it spends public money on the site.

Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton told the council last night that "support
for this site is not an option" and compared the neighborhood around the
7-Eleven to a red-light district.

Other speakers challenged Herndon to treat all its residents with equal respect.

"Don't allow this issue to be decided by false facts, half-truths and unfounded
fears," said town resident Bill Perry. "If you build a community on hate, you
will hate the community you build."

Elsewhere in the region, Arlington has set up a gathering spot for day laborers
in Shirlington, and Montgomery County recently approved an employment center
based in Wheaton that will run several sites through a nonprofit group.

Herndon, a former dairy farm community less than 20 miles from Washington,
counts foreign-born residents as 38 percent of its population, according to the
2000 Census. The proportion of white residents dropped in the 1990s to 58
percent from 78 percent.

"There's an us-against-them feeling that is full-blown in Herndon right now,"
said Jose Vanegas of Sterling, an immigrant from Colombia who has worked with
the day laborers. "People feel you're either for them or against them."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              237 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Business Notes

SECTION: Prince William Extra; T10

LENGTH: 583 words


So many immigrants are living in the area that El Salvador's government is
opening a second consulate, this one in Woodbridge.

The other Salvadoran consulate, near Dupont Circle in the District, is very
busy. Lines form an hour before opening each morning.

"The idea is to decongest" the District office, where about 200 Salvadorans
apply for passports and visas and seek help for problems each day, Consul
General Ana Margarita Chavez said.

Prince William County was selected for the new consulate because the Salvadoran
population here has been growing rapidly as immigrants seek more affordable
housing and jobs in the county.

The office, at 14572 Potomac Mills Rd. near Potomac Mills mall, will open in
mid-September. It will serve not only Salvadorans living in Virginia but also
those as far away as Tennessee and North Carolina.

In addition to Salvadoran restaurants and grocery stores, Woodbridge has the
county's first branch of a Salvadoran money wiring service operated by
Bancomercio. The office opened in June in a Woodbridge shopping center and
serves 3,000 customers a month who wire money to El Salvador and other Latin
American nations.

Bancomercio will open a branch on Centreville Road in Manassas next month and
expects to serve as many as 10,000 customers a month there.

"You can't even predict how fast it will grow," said Daniel Cardenas,
administrative manager of Bancomercio's U.S. operations.

Bancomercio now operates 10 branches in the region, Cardenas said.

In May, Canada's Scotiabank completed its purchase of El Salvador's Banco de
Comercio, which had owned Bancomercio.

As airplanes and helicopters landed on a nearby runway, Aurora Flight Sciences
of Manassas broke ground on a 50,000-square-foot expansion of its facility at
Manassas Regional Airport.

The company, which develops unmanned aerial vehicles for the military and NASA,
will add 81 jobs, employing a total of 181 engineers and other workers after the
expansion is complete next summer.

A recycling program and reduced energy consumption helped Lockheed Martin's
Manassas facility win recognition from the Virginia Department of Environmental
Quality and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

The facility, where about 1,500 people work, was among the first in the state to
reach "extraordinary environmental enterprise" status.

Up next on Lockheed Martin's environmental agenda is a two-acre wildlife habitat
on the 177-acre site for workers and students to tour and study. Environmental
engineers plan to turn a patch of woods on the property into a refuge by next
year's Earth Day.

Two Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology students each won
$16,500 scholarships from Micron Technology Foundation Inc., which was created
by a gift from Micron Technology Inc. of Boise, Idaho.

The seniors, Sam Lederer and Jacob Oppenheim, both had perfect scores on the
SAT.

Micron awards 13 scholarships every year to students in five states, including
Virginia. Micron, which manufactures and markets semiconductor components,
operates a facility in Manassas and employs 1,100 workers.

David Wenzel, safety program supervisor with Prince William County's Risk
Management Office, received the Safety Professional of the Year Award from the
National Capital Chapter of the American Society of Safety Engineers, the oldest
and largest professional safety and health organization.

--  JENALIA MORENO

E-mail news about Prince William County business to morenoj@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              238 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Salvadorans Get A Va. Consulate

SECTION: Fairfax Extra; T08

LENGTH: 269 words


So many immigrants are living in the area that the Salvadoran government is
opening a second consulate, this one in Woodbridge. The other consulate, near
Dupont Circle in the District, is so busy that lines form an hour before it
opens each morning.

"The idea is to decongest" the District office, where about 200 Salvadorans
apply for passports and visas and seek other help each day, said Ana Margarita
Chavez, the Salvadoran consul.

Prince William was chosen for the new consulate because the Salvadoran
population has been growing rapidly in the county as immigrants search for more
affordable housing and find jobs  as construction workers and maids and in
business.

The office, at 14572 Potomac Mills Rd. No. 12, will open in mid-September,
serving not only Salvadorans living in Virginia but also those as far away as
Tennessee and North Carolina.

In addition to Salvadoran restaurants and grocery stores, Woodbridge has the
county's first branch of a Salvadoran money wiring service operated by
Bancomercio. The office opened in June  and already serves 3,000 customers a
month who wire money to El Salvador and other Latin American nations.

Bancomercio will open another branch in Manassas on Centreville Road next month
and expects to serve as many as 10,000 customers a month there.

"You can't even predict how fast it will grow," said Daniel Cardenas,
administrative manager of Bancomercio's U.S. operations.

Bancomercio now operates 10 branches in the region, said Cardenas.

In May, Canada's Scotiabank completed its purchase of El Salvador's Banco de
Comercio, which had owned Bancomercio.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              239 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Attack on Visiting Envoy May Lead to Deportation

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: D.C. Extra; T03

LENGTH: 568 words


A Vietnamese immigrant has been charged with punching a Vietnamese dignitary
during a demonstration in Washington, prompting legal proceedings that could
result in the immigrant's deportation.

Tuan Phuoc Le, 33, of Atlanta had a preliminary hearing last week in U.S.
District Court here on the charge of assaulting  a foreign official. The
immigrant, a permanent resident whose father was a U.S. soldier, has not entered
a plea.

Le's case has raised concern among Vietnamese Americans in the Washington area
and around the country who fear he would be persecuted by Vietnam's communist
government if he is deported.

"He hit a high official. If you send him back, it looks like you send him to the
tiger," said Quyen Le, 60, a Vietnamese immigrant from Germantown who belongs to
a committee that is raising funds for Le's legal bills. The two men are not
related.

Tuan Phuoc Le's troubles began June 21 when he and other demonstrators gathered
outside the Willard Hotel and shouted at visiting Vietnamese officials.

Le ran up to one of the officials, Nguyen Quoc Huy, vice chairman of the prime
minister's office, according to an affidavit.

"Without warning or provocation, Tuan Phuoc Le hit Vice Chairman Huy on or about
the side of the face," knocking him over, according to the affidavit, which was
written by an agent of the U.S. Diplomatic Security Service.

Le was quickly detained by the service. According to the affidavit, he told the
agent that he punched the dignitary because "he was a communist and he killed my
U.S. Marine father in Vietnam."

Le faces up to three years in jail if convicted. His lawyer, public defender
David Walker Bos, declined to comment on the case. Le's friends said he is not
speaking to the media. A trial date has not been set.

Le, who was released on his own recognizance pending trial, faces additional
legal problems.

Once aware of Le's arrest, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement placed him
in deportation proceedings. A spokesman for the agency said the action resulted
not from the assault charge but from a domestic-violence conviction several
years ago in California. Permanent residents such as Le face deportation if they
commit aggravated felonies.

Vietnam doesn't always accept people whom the United States tries to deport. But
Le's supporters fear he could be allowed to return and could face torture in his
homeland.

"He's shown his political opinion by striking a political figure," said Parastoo
Zahedi, a Tysons Corner lawyer handling his immigration case.

Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the immigration agency, said Le can express his
concerns to an immigration judge. "He will have his day in court," Boyd said.
"The judge will evaluate the evidence and make a ruling."

Chien Bach, a spokesman for the Vietnamese Embassy, said, "We do not resort to
torture." He declined to comment further about the case.

Vietnamese Americans in the Washington area and around the country have raised
about $45,000 to help pay the legal bills of Le and Jerry Kiley, a Vietnam War
veteran,  said Quyen Le. Kiley was arrested during another protest  against the
U.S. visit of Vietnamese Prime Minister Phan Van Khai in June.

Le said some of the money has gone to pay the $30,000 bail set for Tuan Phuoc Le
by an immigration judge.

Zahedi said Le immigrated in January 1993, arriving with a green card he
received as the son of a U.S. citizen.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              240 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

America's Fair-Haired Children

BYLINE: Jacqueline Jones,, who teaches history at Brandeis University

SECTION: Style; C04 , BOOK WORLD

LENGTH: 1058 words


WORKING TOWARD WHITENESS

How America's Immigrants Became White

By David R. Roediger

Basic. 339 pp. $26.95

As Americans, we do not often reflect upon the tribalistic nature of our
history. Yet for a nation imbued with ideals of political equality, we have
proved extraordinarily creative in categorizing and denigrating Americans we
consider different from ourselves  --  especially people who do not live in our
own neighborhoods or work or worship with us. Today we blandly celebrate a
multicultural America, a country rich in social and ethnic diversity; but in
fact, the history of America's response to immigrants reveals generations-long,
bitter struggles over jobs, housing and political power.

In waging those battles, native-born white Protestants seized on any number of
social differences  --  language, skin color, religion, cultural traditions  --
to discriminate against newcomers from foreign countries. And yet, as David R.
Roediger suggests in "Working Toward Whiteness," people who identify themselves
as white have constituted the largest, most powerful and ultimately most
exclusive tribe of all. In this provocative but unwieldy book, Roediger argues
that people of non-African descent could and did eventually work their way into
"whiteness"  --  thereby gaining admission to America's largest and most
powerful tribe.

He focuses on the so-called New Immigrants, the 23 million men and women (most
of them from Eastern Europe) who arrived in the United States between 1880 and
1920. These newcomers faced multiple forms of oppression in the workplace and
public places, and old-stock, white Americans devised a laundry list of ethnic
slurs to justify various forms of discrimination. But over time, immigrants were
able to shed their outsider status and blend into the mainstream of white
America. Roediger suggests that the story of people "whitening" themselves and
being "whitened" by government officials constitutes "a deep tragedy with
important lessons for today: that proximity to oppression could also lead new
immigrants to distance themselves from black Americans."

Roediger begins with the hostile reception accorded New Immigrants, groups
wedged in between native-born whites and native-born blacks. Indeed, the first
part of the book consists mainly of a dispiriting compendium of ethnic insults
hurled at, and among, New Immigrant groups. Certainly ethnocentrism was not a
uniquely American development, and many Eastern Europeans hailed from
communities that were intensely chauvinistic, honed by centuries of religious
and cultural conflict. Yet in the United States, immigrants who wanted to
assimilate and claim a robust citizenship first had to embrace the time-honored
traditions of Jim Crow that relegated African Americans to the lowest rungs of
society. Roediger focuses on the milestones of the process  --  in particular,
1930s New Deal federal housing and social-welfare legislation and post-World War
II workplace and labor-union policies  --  that solidified the status of people
who were born (or whose parents were born) in Eastern Europe over that of
African Americans. Throughout this "whitening" process, people of Asian and
Mexican descent also remained marginalized, their status and opportunities more
akin to blacks' than New Immigrants'.

Roediger has read widely in the historical and social-scientific literature, and
he also considers novels, memoirs and popular culture  --  all sources that deal
with late-19th-century and early-20th-century immigration. He discusses, among
other topics, academic and political discourse, federal immigration policies,
housing patterns and the history of the Congress of Industrial Organizations to
reveal the significant privileges accorded specific groups, as well as
state-sanctioned forms of discrimination that belied American ideals of
equality.

If Roediger intends to convey the confusing and convoluted nature of racial and
ethnic ideologies, he undoubtedly succeeds here. Specifically, one of the major
problems in studies of race (such as this one) is the lack of precision in the
term. Indeed, in the early 20th century, native-born white Protestants
identified New Immigrants as members of as many as "forty-five or more different
'races.' " Depending on the specific context, "racial difference" could be used
as shorthand for people who were poor, non-Protestant or non-English speakers.
At the same time, African Americans remained uniquely vulnerable to violence and
discrimination because they lacked the protection of citizenship rights accorded
the New Immigrants. In the competition for jobs and for political rights more
generally, even recently arrived groups soon discovered that they could claim
superiority over African Americans, the majority of whom could not even vote
until the mid-1960s.

Thus "whiteness" became an embraced identity that gave Eastern Europeans
tangible advantages over blacks (and Mexican and Asian immigrants as well). But
Roediger might have highlighted regional variations on this theme in order to
pinpoint the precise factors that caused native-born whites to disparage
immigrants and immigrants to disparage blacks. Over the generations, many whites
have considered citizenship rights, jobs and housing to be factors in what is
ultimately a zero-sum game; in other words, these whites have assumed that for
blacks to prosper, whites must fail, and that for blacks to gain, whites must
lose.

The bleaching of successive waves of foreign immigrants has a long history,
beginning with the drive for respectability among impoverished Irish immigrants
during the antebellum period; one key to their relative success was that they
were able to become active members of the Democratic Party. For many newcomers,
assimilation was a process that could rarely be completed within a single
generation. By the 1930s, however, many children of the first wave of New
Immigrants were speaking English, voting, going to the movies, wearing
"American" clothes and holding stable jobs  --  as well as trying to keep blacks
out of their unions and neighborhoods. American citizenship was not a right for
individuals but a competition among groups, and the children of immigrants
believed  --  rightly  --  that membership in the white people's tribe was the
most powerful form of assimilation of all.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              241 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 18, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Herndon Approves Day Labor Center;
Immigration Called 'Out of Our Control'

BYLINE: Lisa Rein, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 775 words


The Herndon Town Council last night approved the creation of a formal,
taxpayer-funded gathering spot for day laborers, saying the chaos in a 7-Eleven
parking lot where the workers now gather would only worsen if it did nothing.

The council members, in a 5 to 2 vote that several called the hardest decision
in their public service, said they did not want to sanction illegal immigration,
the chief concern of opponents of the center. Many of the workers the facility
would serve are in the United States illegally from Mexico and Central America.

But council members said they were helpless in the face of what they called a
federal failure to police U.S. borders. They said it was their responsibility to
bring order to a neighborhood nuisance that had become the town's most divisive
issue in recent history.

"Here we sit, expecting this local government to resolve a national immigration
problem that is out of our control," council member Harlon Reece said before the
vote.

The vote, which came after the fifth hearing on the issue since last month,
culminated a tense summer in the small town in northwest Fairfax County, which
has been drawn into a national debate on immigration policy, human rights and
the role of local governments in international issues.

Project Hope and Harmony, a social services agency, was seeking a permit to
build and operate a worker center near the Loudoun County line. The approval
means the town will help fund the center with $175,000 in public money.

The dissenters said a vote to spend public money on a laborer site would amount
to an endorsement of illegal immigration.

Still, council member Dennis D. Husch, who opposed the measure along with Ann V.
Null, denounced the region's representatives in Congress. "Shame on them for
their cowardly retreat," Husch said.

In recent weeks, radio talk shows, cable news and Internet blogs fumed that
taxpayer money would help immigrants who might be in the country illegally. They
advised rounding up such immigrants instead.

Some supporters of the site countered with accusations of racism. But at its
core, the debate reflected the struggle in Herndon and other Washington suburbs
to integrate a steady flow of new immigrants  --  those here legally and
illegally.

"This has been a horrendously difficult issue," Mayor Michael O'Reilly said. He
said every worker has a constitutional right to "stand on a street corner
whether they have documents or not."

As a condition of the permit granted to Project Hope, the nonprofit group must
distribute information to contractors telling them that hiring undocumented
immigrants is illegal. But Project Hope officials said they will not ask the
laborers to disclose their status.

The speakers last night  --  the carry-over crowd from a seven-hour hearing
Tuesday in Herndon's small council chambers  --  were evenly split about the
proposed site as they testified before the television cameras that lined the
aisles.

Opponents from Herndon and as far away as Colorado called for stepped-up police
enforcement, legislative changes and an end to the hiring of undocumented
workers. Some homeowners said the day laborers are sinking property values. And
they said that by using public money to help the workers, Herndon would be
committing a crime by supporting illegal immigration.

Supporters cited the biblical exhortation to love thy neighbor and begged the
council not to allow the community to turn its back on its less-fortunate
members. They said the problem is not immigration but a neighborhood conflict
over noise, littering and safety.

"This controversy will not disappear if we . . . maintain the status quo," said
Stef  Woods, a lawyer for Just Neighbors, a group that helps immigrants.

Each side blamed the other for the animosity in the town, where foreign-born
residents now make up 38 percent of the 22,000 residents.

"I am not a bigot," said Cathy McNary of Herndon, whose family is from the
Philippines. "I cleaned bathrooms. . . . But I chose Herndon to raise my family
because it was a town known for safety. Now it is known as a place where the day
laborers may be."

Undercurrents of race and history resonated on both sides.

One speaker Tuesday night testified that the day laborers represent the
"comeuppance of the white man" over the conquest of Native Americans hundreds of
years ago.

Several day laborers also stepped forward to plead for an organized place to
gather.

"We want a secure site, because our lives are in danger when the contractors
leave us on the road," Eric Arauz said through an interpreter. "We are honest
workers, not criminals, like they say."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              242 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 27, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A08

LENGTH: 543 words


LAS CRUCES, N.M.  --  The governors of New Mexico and its southern neighbor, the
Mexican state of Chihuahua, agreed Friday to bulldoze or board up buildings in a
semi-abandoned border town that is a haven for would-be immigrants and
smugglers.

Gov. Bill Richardson (D) and Chihuahua Gov. Jose Reyes Baeza also said they
hoped to establish a police presence to end lawlessness in the Mexican community
of Las Chepas, which is considered a staging ground for migrants and drug and
human smugglers.

It was the governors' first meeting since Richardson, citing growing violence,
declared a state of emergency in New Mexico's four border counties earlier this
month.

*  SAN FRANCISCO  --  A federal judge ordered the government to expedite the
delivery of green cards or other documents to at least 12,500 immigrants
nationwide who have been granted legal residency in the United States but have
been waiting, sometimes years, for legal documents proving they are in the
country legally. U.S. District Judge Marilyn Hall Patel ordered immigration
officials on Thursday to come up with a plan within 60 days for expediting the
documents. The government argued that the delay in issuing at least temporary
documents, which would allow the immigrants to obtain Social Security cards,
driver's licenses and jobs, was in part due to a backlog of security background
checks after the 2001 terrorist attacks.

*  SELMA, Ore.  --  A wildfire burned five rural homes and forced the evacuation
of at least 30 more, and 800 firefighters were called in to fortify a crew of
about 200 tackling the fire. The flames had already spread to 1,800 acres of
dense forest in southwestern Oregon one day after the fire started, a forestry
official said.

*  ATLANTA  --  Ted Turner, Henry Aaron and the late Maynard Jackson Jr. were
among 11 people inducted to the International Civil Rights Walk of Fame. Other
inductees were comedian Dick Gregory; the late newspaper editor and columnist
Ralph McGill; Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.); singers Nancy Wilson and Harry
Belafonte; activist Addie L. Wyatt of Chicago; the late Elbert Tuttle Sr., chief
judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit; and the Rev. Fred
Shuttlesworth of Cincinnati.

*  SPOKANE, Wash.  --  A federal bankruptcy judge ruled that all the parish
churches, parochial schools and other property of the Catholic Diocese of
Spokane can be liquidated to pay victims of clergy sexual abuse. The decision is
a defeat for Spokane Bishop William Skylstad, who had argued he did not control
individual parishes and thus they were not available to cover settlement costs.

*  ATLANTA  --  Coretta Scott King will remain hospitalized for at least another
month to undergo rehabilitation for a stroke and mild heart attack, according to
her doctor, Maggie Mermin. King, 78, is being fed by mouth and can say a few
short sentences at a time, Mermin said.

*  CHICAGO  --  Mayor Richard M. Daley said he answered two hours of questions
from representatives of the U.S. attorney, whose office is investigating
corruption in City Hall. Daley said he does not believe he is a target of the
investigations into bribes for jobs in a city trucking program or alleged fraud
in city hiring practices.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              243 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            September 4, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Right to Consular Assistance Complicates Immigrant's Prosecution

BYLINE: Tom Jackman

SECTION: Metro; C04 , OFF THE BEAT: FAIRFAX COURTS Tom Jackman

LENGTH: 691 words


The United States signed the Vienna Convention treaty in 1963, in part to
protect the rights of American citizens who are arrested in other countries. The
treaty requires foreign authorities to provide an accused citizen prompt access
to U.S. officials.

But the provisions apply in the United States, too, and a Vietnamese man
arrested in Fairfax County last year in connection with a double homicide could
avoid the death penalty if convicted, because his rights under the Vienna
Convention apparently were violated.

As the immigrant population in the Washington area swells, the case of Dinh Pham
serves as a reminder to police officers of an additional duty when they arrest
foreign nationals: to inform them, without delay, that they have a right to
consult with their embassy or consulate.

The issue has been argued before the International Court of Justice, and the
U.S. Supreme Court recently considered the case after the international court
found last year that 51 Mexicans were convicted without being told of their
right to consular advice.

President Bush ordered Texas officials to review all of those cases.

And based on the international court's ruling and advice from the State
Department, the governor of Oklahoma last year commuted the death sentence of a
Mexican man convicted of a double murder because he had not been advised of his
Vienna Convention rights.

Pham's case has not gone to trial, and there is no precedent for what remedy
might be appropriate if his Vienna Convention rights were violated.

His attorneys are proposing that Fairfax Circuit Court Judge Leslie M. Alden
throw out the possibility of capital punishment for Pham, who is accused of
strangling a Merrifield woman and her 22-month-old daughter in their home in
January 2004.

The day after the bodies of Loan Phuong Nguyen, 30, and her daughter, Ashley Nu
Ton, were discovered, Pham was stopped while driving Nguyen's vehicle. Through a
Vietnamese interpreter, he admitted the killings to Fairfax homicide detectives
in a taped statement and was arrested and charged with murder.

A transcript of the interview shows, and Fairfax prosecutors do not contest,
that the detectives did not advise Pham that he had a right to speak with the
Vietnamese Embassy.

Two weeks after Pham's arrest, the detective faxed a notice to the Vietnamese
Embassy that Pham was in custody.

The Vienna Convention states that if a foreign national is arrested in this
country, "authorities shall inform the person concerned without delay of his
rights" to speak with someone from his embassy or consulate. The State
Department's guide to local law enforcement advises officers that "you should
treat a foreign national as you would want an American citizen to be treated in
a similar situation in a foreign country. This means prompt, courteous
notification to the foreign national of the possibility of consular assistance."

Paul A. Maslakowski, the acting capital public defender representing Pham, said
that if Pham had known of his rights, "he certainly would have requested contact
and would have refrained from speaking to the police until he had obtained the
advice of consular officials."

Maslakowski suggested that the judge throw out the death penalty as a deterrent
to other police agencies.

Fairfax prosecutors responded that the failure to notify Pham of his rights did
not prejudice his case and that if the judge eliminated the possibility of the
death penalty, she "would in essence be stepping into the roles of prosecutor
and legislator," Deputy Commonwealth's Attorney Raymond F. Morrogh wrote.

Fairfax police have a written policy of informing arrested foreign nationals of
their right to contact their embassy or consulate, though it apparently was not
followed in Pham's case.

Practices in other jurisdictions vary. Prince William County police carry a
two-sided card with instructions on how to inform foreign nationals of their
rights. District police notify only the person's embassy, not the suspect
himself, Sgt. Joe Gentile, a police spokesman, said.

Alexandria police have no policy on foreign nationals, spokeswoman Amy Bertsch
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              244 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 10, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

The H1Bees Want You: To Rock and Roll;
Singing of the Immigrant Experience -- And Life in the Tech Sector

BYLINE: S. Mitra Kalita, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Financial; D01

LENGTH: 1075 words


The computer programmers arrived in the United States unknown to each other but
united in their quest to rock.

On the surface, they were not unlike many others who have left India over the
past decade on the H-1B visa, a guest worker program for highly skilled
professionals. They wore glasses and mustaches and collared shirts. They could
exterminate Y2K bugs and code Java and link Unix.

But as they toiled in cubicles, they dreamed of banging on keyboards of a
different sort, of a world where C-sharp is just a musical note, not computer
code.

And then their worlds became one.

"H1Bees," an album recorded in a Gaithersburg basement-turned-studio, will be
released today, its music a mix of Indian and Western beats with lyrics
exploring the high-tech immigrant's experience in the United States. The troupe
remains unnamed, giving composer Srikanth Devarajan top billing and referring to
the remaining artists as "playback singers," which is customary on many Indian
albums.

Yet the computer programmers say their self-produced album would have been
impossible in India, where the music industry there is exclusive.

"I was nothing in India," Devarajan said. "Thanks to the H-1, even a small man
like me can say I have a studio."

"That's a big deal," nodded Kartik Venkataramanan, a database manager at Verizon
who studied Indian classical music as a child and developed an affinity for
Jethro Tull somewhere along the way.

Until last year, Devarajan could be described as a most persistent one-man band,
using his computing and composing skills to synthesize original scores, dubbing
the sound "curry rock."

The overlapping social circles of Indians in the Washington region came to his
rescue last year. Out of the blue, he received a random call from
friend-of-a-friend Venkataramanan. Venkataramanan's early days on U.S. shores,
first Atlanta, then Washington, were spent browsing longingly at Guitar Center
until he had saved enough to buy a blue Fender with a Made in the U.S.A. label
he fingered as much as its strings.

At last, another computer programmer who wanted to be a rock star. Could there
be more out there?

In their first conversation, Venkataramanan invited Devarajan to his
housewarming party in Manassas where he promised a gathering of musically
inclined folks. There, Devarajan also met Devesh Satyavolu, a multilingual poet,
and Srivatsa Srinivasan, who claimed little musical talent of his own but said
he always wanted to produce an album and possibly form a production company.

Days later, the new acquaintances gathered in Devarajan's studio to see if they
had synergy. As they brainstormed a theme for an album, Devarajan took in the
group assembled before him.

The languages differed: Tamil, Hindi, COBAL, BASIC. The journeys seemed
parallel: Young man leaves India to earn U.S. dollars, works hard, buys car,
returns home to marry, gets green card, buys townhouse, has kid, decides to
stay.

"H1Bees," Devarajan said. The album, which will be sold via South Asian Web
sites and stores for $6, boasts songs in English, Hindi and Tamil. By setting
their sagas to music, they hope to duplicate the success of other immigrant
artists catering to diasporas, much of it via the Internet.

Most of the artists hold green cards now, but that's no matter. They vividly
describe the job offers that led to migration and the nervousness with which
they gave interviews at the U.S. Embassy. Hence the title track, which sounds
like a cross between the rock band Weezer and a number off the "Grease"
soundtrack, with these lyrics:

"Standing in line, papers in my hand,

All my answers, practiced and planned,

He asked, would ya ever come back home?

(Incredulous laughter)

Yes sir, I will, but first give me that H-1B!"

Another soulful, more serious ballad likens the United States to a beautiful but
hard-to-navigate forest.

"You step in here," Devarajan says of the United States. "You're lost. . . .
During our initial days here, we were lost in this beautiful country and had a
cultural change."

When it became apparent Devarajan needed female vocalists on the album, he
relied on the same network that helped him find the other musicians. "This guy
that Srikanth knew had a friend who had a friend who knew us," explained Alisha
Thomas, a 17-year-old senior at Riverdale Baptist High School who sings on the
H1Bees album.

"Srikanth's cousin is married to one of my mother's friend's cousins," explained
16-year-old Swathi Raman, a senior at Thomas Wootton High School who also
performs.

The American-born teenagers are separated by more than age from the H-1B
immigrants. They cannot read or write in Tamil, so Devarajan writes the phonetic
spellings for words and helps with pronunciation. In a song titled "Dollar
Income," Thomas and Raman sing as though they are children talking to their H-1B
parents. The song debunks the myth of expatriate Indians living the good life.

"As soon as Dad got his H-1, he is forced into a wedding.

As soon as she lands, they give birth to a U.S. citizen.

Sixty percent of Dad's paycheck goes to tax.

Thirty percent goes to the body shop.

Leaving just 10 percent for them."

The "body shop" refers to the middle party who offers the services of computer
programmers to companies at a profit. At times, the artists fretted over whether
they were getting too preachy or political, Srinivasan said.

"The idea we're putting out there is that we're worker bees. Is this going to be
a controversy?" he asked. "We're saying things have happened and we're putting
this conflict out there in a humorous way. The sad thing is that H-1Bs are being
exploited."

During the dot-com boom, U.S. companies couldn't get enough of the H-1B program,
successfully lobbying Congress for an increase on the numbers they could hire on
the temporary visas. When the boom went bust, the cap returned to 65,000. Last
month,  the U.S. government announced it had already exhausted that number of
H-1B visas for next year --  two months before the fiscal year even begins.
Lobbyists are expected to ask for more visas.

Despite the band members' now permanent status, they say they plan to watch the
debate closely because of the effect on the information-technology sector  --
and because the H-1B has already made their very particular American Dream come
true.

None plans to give up his day job yet.

"We'll stay in IT," Venkataramanan says. "What else do we know?"

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              245 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 12, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration's Impact Is On the Minds Of Va. Voters

BYLINE: Robert Barnes, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1192 words


It has become a standard refrain in Republican Jerry W. Kilgore's stump speech
for governor, tucked in among the pledges for better pay for better teachers and
the promises not to raise taxes:

Virginia officials "should not be spending more of your hard-earned tax dollars
to encourage illegal immigration."

Kilgore's eagerness to talk about the issue is being watched closely not just by
his campaign opponents but also by political analysts and immigration experts
nationwide. Campaign experts say the issue can be a risky one for a politician,
and immigration experts are interested in how a clearly federal responsibility
is working its way into gubernatorial campaigns and dividing state legislatures
and city councils.

Illegal immigration "is an issue of growing concern and even anxiety at the
grass roots," said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center. "It's one
of those issues where politicians of both parties are trying to catch up with
the public."

In Virginia, a new Washington Post poll shows, 33 percent of registered voters
think "the growing number of immigrants" has been bad for their communities,
compared with 21 percent who say it has been good. In Northern Virginia, where
most of the state's immigrants reside, residents split almost equally on whether
immigration has been good or bad for their communities.

The poll also shows that, statewide, voters agree with Kilgore's view that
officials should not use public money to build centers where day laborers can
gather to look for work, an issue that has sharply divided the Fairfax County
town of Herndon.

By a ratio of 56 to 42 percent, voters say taxpayers should not fund the
centers. And when respondents were asked how they would feel if some of those
who used the centers to look for work were in the country illegally, opposition
grew even stronger.

"There's definitely a huge gap between the elite and public perceptions on
immigration," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, which supports stricter immigration controls.

But the battles emerging across the country often result in contradictory
results and in many cases do not follow the "red-blue" pattern of partisan
politics that has marked recent nationwide campaigns.

Democratic governors Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Bill Richardson of New
Mexico, both of whom Kilgore mentions when talking about his interest in the
issue, say smuggling and illegal immigration in their border states have created
a state of emergency. And states and cities across the country are changing laws
regarding education, social and medical benefits, driver's licenses and day
laborers.

What is striking is that there is little agreement on whether the best approach
is what Krikorian calls "accommodation or enforcement."

For example, Arizona voters, over Napolitano's opposition, approved a
proposition last year enacting some of the nation's toughest laws regarding
illegal immigrants. But in neighboring New Mexico, legislators granted in-state
tuition to illegal immigrants, the ninth state to do so, according to the
National Conference of State Legislatures. The state joined an unlikely
electoral coalition of California, Illinois, Kansas, New York, Oklahoma, Texas,
Utah and Washington state in offering the benefit.

Across the nation, "it's definitely not a red-blue issue," Suro said.

Things are different in Virginia, which will have its gubernatorial election
Nov. 8. Although Democratic Gov. Mark R. Warner this year signed a bill that
bars illegal immigrants from receiving certain public benefits, including
Medicaid and public assistance, the movers on the issue in the commonwealth are
Republican, led by Kilgore.

The former attorney general's opponents have denounced him for getting involved
in the Herndon fight. Town leaders this summer found themselves caught in a
months-long debate about that issue, with residents fiercely divided over
whether such a center rewarded illegal immigrants or simply recognized the
reality that the workers are integral to the region's booming economy and that
it would be better gathering them in one place than on street corners or in
front of convenience stores.

State Sen. H. Russell Potts Jr. (R-Winchester), who is running for governor as
an independent, called Kilgore's actions "the worst form of pandering." Lt. Gov.
Timothy M. Kaine, the Democratic candidate, said Kilgore is trying to find a
wedge issue in what was an attempt by local officials to solve a difficult
problem. "I think that's kind of slimy," he said Thursday.

Despite polls that show high voter unhappiness with illegal immigration,
political experts say candidates must be careful, for fear of overplaying the
issue or risking being called racist. Kirkorian, who said he would like to see
the issue debated more, said Americans want "sober and intelligent" discussion
on the issue and will be turned off by a "red face behind a lectern."

Kilgore can point to being consistent for years in his approach to the issue,
championing legislation that would deny illegal immigrants in-state tuition,
driver's licenses and government identification cards and any employment
assistance. On his Web site, a release from the campaign says Virginia is facing
"an illegal immigration crisis," though he doesn't go that far in campaign
speeches. And he blames illegal immigration for another problem that the Post
poll shows is very much in voters' minds: the rise of gangs such as Mara
Salvatrucha.

Kilgore calls day-laborer centers  --  there are such facilities in Arlington,
Silver Spring, Takoma Park and plans for two more in Wheaton and Gaithersburg
--  "magnets for illegal immigration." But the real attraction is jobs generated
by the region's hot economy.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimated that Virginia and Maryland each was home to
more than 700,000 foreign-born people, of whom 200,000 to 250,000 people in each
population are undocumented.

In what demographers call "new settlement areas," communities sometimes are
overwhelmed by the rapid change and the demands placed on schools, law
enforcement and social services. But residents also get to know the newcomers in
a different way, distinguishing between "immigration" as a concept and the
"immigrants" that they meet.

The Post poll shows that Northern Virginia voters, who live in the most
immigrant-populated area of the state, differ with the rest of the state on the
impact of immigration and on the day-laborer centers. By a slight majority,
Northern Virginia voters favor using public money to build the centers.

Mark J. Rozell, a public policy professor at George Mason University who is
closely following the Virginia race, said he isn't sure how the issue will play
out.

"I think it was risky, but on the other hand, I don't see how Kilgore could not
bring it up," Rozell said, because the issue has become so important to
Kilgore's conservative base.

"The situation in Herndon shows that you don't have to be a border state for the
issue to reverberate."

Polling director Richard Morin and staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              246 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 12, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hunting for a New Cash Crop;
As Immigrant Populations Grow, Small Farms Turn to Ethnic Foods

BYLINE: Amit R. Paley, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B01

LENGTH: 1099 words


Israel Hertzler isn't the sort of man who usually bucks tradition. On the rare
occasions when the Amish farmer leaves his home on dusty Woodpecker Way, he
drives a horse and buggy. He is partial to straw hats with wide brims and
homemade trousers held up by worn suspenders. And for lunch most days? Meat and
potatoes, of course.

So Hertzler was more than a bit leery when a businessman from Mali asked him
three years ago to plant n'goyo, a bitter type of African eggplant with green
ridges, in a part of Southern Maryland better known for tobacco barns and
oyster-shucking houses.

"I said to him, 'You must be funny,' " said Hertzler, 32, of St. Mary's County.
"I don't know the first thing about growing African eggplants."

But he does now. Hertzler and his brother have transformed their patch of Amish
country into a United Nations of horticulture. Down the road from the half-acre
of n'goyo grows another type of eggplant, known as njilu in the Congo Republic.
Nearby is a plot of habanero peppers, highly prized in Latin America.

The patches of international vegetables are the latest example of how immigrants
moving into the Washington region are reshaping the economy. As growing enclaves
of ethnic groups, from Salvadorans to Ethiopians, hunger for fresh produce from
their homelands, increasing numbers of farmers like Hertzler are trying to meet
their needs.

The eagerness of some farmers to cast away traditional crops and turn instead to
vegetables with names difficult for English speakers to pronounce underscores a
growing desperation in the agricultural community, in which longtime growers are
struggling to stay afloat.

Faced with falling crop prices and rising operating costs, more and more area
farmers are accepting multimillion-dollar offers from developers and getting out
of agriculture. Across the region, fields of tobacco and soybeans are giving way
to a new crop: sprawling subdivisions.

But on quiet Lomax Road in Charles County, Lana Edelen is determined to keep her
farm going. Part of the key to her success? The mix of ethnic fruits and
vegetables she sells to Jamaicans, Latinos, Asians and Africans. Down past the
rusty tobacco barns and rows of sweet corn, Edelen drives from patch to patch in
a gray station wagon caked with mud.

She points at a green leaf known as callalou to Jamaicans. Then the Asian
variety of eggplant known as ichiban. But Edelen runs into some trouble when she
tries to describe a spherical yellow vegetable speckled with white. She calls it
a garden egg.

"I don't know how you say it in their language because I don't speak it," said
the 54-year-old former tobacco farmer. "I just know Africans like to eat it."

When she has to write down the vegetable's name, she writes it phonetically:
B-O-M-A. Yao Afantchao, a Togolese immigrant who buys her vegetables and
distributes them to local specialty stores, tries to correct her.

"He says, 'That's not the way it's supposed to be spelled. It's supposed to
start with an H. And I say, 'Well, that's the way I spell it,' " Edelen said,
looking exasperated. "What's the point of having an H if it's silent?"

The bitter-tasting vegetable is actually spelled gboma by West Africans.
Afantchao is just pleased that the Edelens, whose ancestors farmed tobacco for
generations, tried a new and exotic crop.

Afantchao is on a crusade to increase the number of local farmers growing ethnic
vegetables. He and Stephan Tubene, a Congolese immigrant who runs the Small Farm
Institute at the University of Maryland and its fields in Upper Marlboro,
started working together in the 1990s when they realized that immigrants craved
the fresh produce they ate in their homelands.

"My kids can eat the fast food Monday through Sunday, but I can't," said Tubene,
43, of Glen Burnie. "I need to eat my fufu or my egusi."

He's not the only one with a hankering for fufu (a type of African porridge) or
egusi (ground melon seeds used as seasoning). Ethnic foods are part of the $25
billion specialty food industry, whose sales jumped 16 percent between 2002 and
2004, according to the National Association for the Specialty Food Trade.

So the two Africans began researching which tropical vegetables could best be
grown in the soil around Washington. In December, Tubene published the 20-page
first edition of the "Ethnic and Specialty Vegetables Handbook." They constantly
tell growers about this burgeoning market.

On a recent sun-baked afternoon at an Upper Marlboro research farm, a few dozen
curious farmers showed up at the quarter-acre plot to gaze at the unusual
produce. Tubene held up what looked like a watermelon shrunken to the size of a
golf ball.

"Anybody recognize this?" he said.

The farmers looked puzzled. "Tomatinas?" someone finally guessed.

"They are eggplants!" Tubene declared. "The Thai variety."

Some farmers are skeptical of growing plants they've never heard of. But
Christine Bergmark, director of the Southern Maryland Agricultural Development
Commission, said she anticipates more growers will turn to ethnic vegetables if
they can do it profitably.

"You've got to remember that Southern Maryland was founded on a crop that no one
knew much about: tobacco," she said. "That was a new, novel crop back then. But
it worked pretty well for almost 400 years."

Although there are no precise statistics measuring the number of farmers growing
ethnic vegetables, experts say the number is steadily increasing. Immigrants
also are starting to grow their own vegetables. The New York-based National
Immigrant Farming Initiative estimates that 60 percent of farm workers in the
United States are foreign-born.

Haroun Hallack, 39, who was born in Sierra Leone, grows ethnic vegetables on his
farm in West Virginia. He sells to customers throughout the Washington region
who want their African produce fresh, not canned or imported.

"We cannot satisfy the demand," he said.

As he toils in his St. Mary's field, Hertzler doesn't give much thought to the
culinary preferences of West Africans. He grew n'goyo for a year before he tried
it, and he doesn't plan on cooking it again.

"They don't actually taste good," he said. "I gave it to people, and they said
it was terrible."

But as he took a bite of a tennis ball-size n'goyo on a recent morning, Hertzler
noticed something strangely appealing about the vegetable, picked fresh in the
field. It may not be sweet like an apple, he said, but there's something about
it that makes you want to keep chewing.

"I'm not sure that I like it," Hertzler said, taking another bite. "But I'm
going to keep eating it."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              247 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 18, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

A Nudge, and Wink, on Path to Citizenship;
Arlington Volunteers Use Humor to Help Applicants Wade Through Questionnaire

BYLINE: Jay Mathews, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C03

LENGTH: 665 words


Question A6 on form N-400, the application to become a U.S. citizen, asked, "Do
you have any title of nobility in any foreign country?"

Beth Fitzgerald, a volunteer helping immigrants decipher the bureaucratese at a
workshop yesterday in Arlington, translated this for Maria R. Aguila, 51, a
nurse's aide who lives in Falls Church.

"So," Fitzgerald said with a grin, "are you the queen of Bolivia?"

Aguila had had a worried look, but this made her laugh. "No, no," Aguila said.
Satisfied, Fitzgerald moved on to the next questions: Was Aguila a communist, or
maybe a Nazi?

The large room at the Arlington Mill Community Center on Columbia Pike was full
of red, white and blue balloons bumping against the ceiling tiles as several
community groups, led by Catholic Charities' Hogar Hispano organization,
welcomed Afghans, Guatemalans, Peruvians, Hondurans and other immigrants to a
cut-rate, $40-per-person consultation. The Hogar Hispano volunteers, with the
help of staff lawyers, do this eight times a year, processing about 80 people
every time, but yesterday was Citizenship Day, the 218th birthday of the
Constitution, so they decided to make the session a party.

There were speeches and cakes and jokes about the Hogar Hispano staff,
particularly naturalization coordinator Esmael Husseini, who came to the United
States from Afghanistan 27 years ago and has helped more than 4,000 people
become citizens, including many from his home country. His boss, Nancy Jane
Shestack, Hogar Hispano's director, noted the cheers when Husseini's name was
mentioned and said she had been asked whether she worked for Husseini. "I said,
'Yes, I do.' "

The applicants sat on folding chairs and waited to go over the forms with a
volunteer. Some were so intent on the process that they kept at it even during
the speeches, in which Shestack showed the pocket-sized, red-bound Constitution
she carries with her, and Michael O'Rourke, associate director of Catholic
Charities of the Diocese of Arlington, quoted "philosopher and balladeer" Willie
Nelson:

Living in the promised land

Our dreams are made of steel

The prayer of every man

Is to know how freedom feels.

Freshta Nawabi, a Hogar Hispano job developer, said she was pleased to get her
citizenship because it no longer took her an hour and a half to get through
border checks. Shestack said the biggest attraction of citizenship for many was
to be able to help relatives come here. The workshop was scheduled for 10 a.m.,
but clients were lining up at 8:30 a.m.

The Afghanistan-born Ansaris  --  father Mir, 65, mother Lateefa, 47, son Syed,
26, and daughter Rekha, 19  --  sat in the first row. "I want to have the right
to vote so I can decide on a nice person for president," said Rekha Ansari, a
student at George Mason University.

Ignoring the cake, Fitzgerald and Aguila slogged through the 10-page form. "Do
you belong to any terrorist organizations? You're not a terrorist? Good,"
Fitzgerald said, making a neat X in the No box. "Do you have a drinking problem?
No beer for breakfast?" She again made an X in No.

Fitzgerald chided Aguila for missing a few English classes, telling Aguila that
she would have to work on that before she was ready for the citizenship test.
Fitzgerald,  who is an executive secretary for Catholic Charities, attached gray
tabs to a few pages with notes on questions that Aguila was unable to answer,
such as the exact number of days she was out of the country on a recent trip.

Fitzgerald summoned Ken Balbuena or Jodi Nemser-Abrahams, young staffers fluent
in Spanish, when she could not get a point across to Aguila. There was, for
instance, question H39: Would Aguila be willing to perform work of national
importance under civilian direction if the law required it? Balbuena translated
this into Spanish and used an example. "How about being secretary of state?" he
asked.

At least one naturalized citizen  has served in that capacity. Aguila smiled.
"Si!" she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              248 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 20, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Immigration Nominee's Credentials Questioned

BYLINE: Dan Eggen and Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 943 words


The Bush administration is seeking to appoint a lawyer with little immigration
or customs experience to head the troubled law enforcement agency that handles
those issues, prompting sharp criticism from some employee groups, immigration
advocates and homeland security experts.

The push to appoint Julie Myers to head the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency, part of the Department of Homeland Security, comes in the
midst of intense debate over the qualifications of department political
appointees involved in the sluggish response to Hurricane Katrina.

Concerns over Myers, 36, were acute enough at a Senate hearing last week that
lawmakers asked the nominee to detail during her testimony her  postings and to
account for her management experience.  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-Ohio) went
so far as to tell Myers that her résumé indicates  she is  not qualified for the
job.

But Voinovich has since met with Myers and is now likely to support her, his
spokeswoman said yesterday. Myers, who has attracted strong support from many
former colleagues, told senators that she would draw upon the experiences of ICE
veterans in running the agency.

"I realize that I'm not 80 years old," Myers testified. "I have a few gray
hairs, more coming, but I will seek to work with those who are knowledgeable in
this area, who know more than I do."

After working as a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn, N.Y., for two years, Myers
held a variety of jobs over the  past four years at the White House and at the
departments of Commerce, Justice and Treasury, though none involved managing a
large bureaucracy. Myers worked briefly as chief of staff to  Michael Chertoff
when he led the Justice Department's criminal division before he became Homeland
Security secretary.

Myers also was an associate under independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr for about
16 months and has most recently served as a special assistant to President Bush
handling personnel issues.

Her uncle is Air Force Gen. Richard B. Myers, the departing chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff. She married Chertoff's current chief of staff, John F.
Wood, on Saturday.

In written answers to questions from Congress, Myers highlighted her year-long
job as assistant secretary for export enforcement at Commerce, where she said
she supervised 170 employees and a $25 million budget. ICE has more than 20,000
employees and a budget of approximately $4 billion. Its personnel investigate
immigrant, drug and weapon smuggling, and illegal exports, among other
responsibilities.

Myers was on her honeymoon and was not available to  comment yesterday. Erin
Healy, a White House spokeswoman, cited Myers's work with customs agents on
money-laundering and drug-smuggling cases. "She's well-known and respected
throughout the law enforcement community," Healy said. "She has a proven track
record as an effective manager."

ICE was created from remnants of the former immigration and customs services. It
is widely viewed as one of the most troubled parts of the sprawling Department
of Homeland Security.

Homeland Security political appointees have come under scrutiny since Michael D.
Brown resigned under fire this month as head of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, which he joined with no experience in disaster preparedness. Several
other senior FEMA officials were Bush supporters who did not have
crisis-management credentials.

Unlike most political appointments, the head of ICE is required by statute to
have at least five years of experience in both law enforcement and management.

Many immigration advocates, ICE employee representatives and homeland security
experts said they were troubled by the nomination of Myers to take over an
agency with so many problems.

"It appears she's got a tremendous amount of experience in money laundering, in
banking and the financial areas," said Charles Showalter, president of the
National Homeland Security Council, a union that represents 7,800 ICE agents,
officers and support staff. "My question is: Who the hell is going to enforce
the immigration laws?"

I. Michael Greenberger, a former Clinton administration official who heads the
Center for Health and Homeland Security at the University of Maryland, said the
Myers appointment represents "pre-Katrina thinking, where political
relationships were a very large factor."

"Post-Katrina, we now see that people need to be eminently qualified,"
Greenberger said.

But Jim Pasco, executive director of the  Fraternal Order of Police, which
represents several thousand ICE employees, lauded Myers's government experience.

"That organization . . . is on some days almost dysfunctional," Pasco said. "I
think Julie may be just the person to pull people and functions together to get
them working right for a change."

During a hearing  Thursday of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee, Chairman Susan Collins (R-Maine) and ranking Democrat Joseph
I.   Lieberman (Conn.)  quizzed Myers on whether her positions over the  past
five years qualified her for the job.

The most pointed questioning came from Voinovich, who said during the hearing
that he wanted to meet with Chertoff to discuss Myers's qualifications. "I'd
really like to have him spend some time with us, telling us personally why he
thinks you're qualified for the job, because based on the résumé, I don't think
you are," Voinovich said.

But Marcie Ridgway, Voinovich's communications director, said yesterday that the
Ohio senator had resolved his concerns by talking privately with both Chertoff
and Myers.  Ridgway said Voinovich was not available to speak directly about the
issue.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              249 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 29, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Mixed Reviews for Chief of Customs and Border Protection

BYLINE: Christopher Lee, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A Section; A21

LENGTH: 645 words


Robert C. Bonner, commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, will
resign after four years of leading an agency that has undergone a rocky
transition as a key component of the new Department of Homeland Security.

In a letter to President Bush, Bonner expressed his intention to step down but
said he would remain on the job long enough to ensure an orderly transition.

Bush nominated Bonner, 63, a former U.S. attorney in Los Angeles and onetime
head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, to be commissioner of the U.S.
Customs Service in 2001. In March 2003, Bush nominated him to lead Customs and
Border Protection after customs enforcement was absorbed by the new department.

The agency was created in response to the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, as was the
department as a whole. Inspectors from very different agencies  --  the Customs
Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the Agriculture
Department  --  were merged into a single bureaucracy in 2003 with the goal of
presenting "one face at the border" to better deter terrorist threats.

With 42,000 employees, CBP, which includes the Border Patrol, inspects goods,
people and vehicles at 317 ports of entry and pursues people who try to cross
the border illegally. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff rejected this
year a proposal to merge the CBP with Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
another agency that handles border security.

In a statement, Chertoff said yesterday that Bonner's "guidance and efforts have
been instrumental in balancing our need to preserve the integrity of our borders
without sacrificing the free flow of commerce on which our nation and the global
community depends."

Bonner's departure could leave the department without permanent leaders in three
key posts. The heads of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement are serving in acting capacities.

In his letter to Bush, Bonner said that "this part of the homeland security
reorganization has created a border agency that is more effective in preventing
terrorists and terrorist weapons from getting into our country."

Not everyone agrees. Charles Showalter, president of the American Federation of
Government Employees' National Homeland Security Council, said the consolidation
of specialists from various agencies has caused "huge" problems.

A recent report by the nonprofit Migration Policy Institute said that the
transfer of customs into DHS has produced mixed results.

The group, which conducted more than 80 interviews during field visits to border
communities last year, found that staffing had increased along the nation's
borders and the use of technology had improved. There was greater
professionalism, and policies were clearer concerning firearms, the use of force
and personal searches of suspects, the report said.

But the group also unearthed concerns that CBP inspectors were becoming
generalists with overly broad duties, noting a lack of immigration expertise in
the agency. The report cited a culture of fear inside the agency, with employees
discouraged from talking to outsiders and even from offering ideas. "People who
had expertise felt it was not being valued and that input was not being asked
for," said Deborah W. Meyers, a senior policy analyst at the institute.

That culture came from the top, said Colleen M. Kelley, president of the
National Treasury Employees Union, which represents the former customs
inspectors in the agency. "Employees would say it's not in very good shape,"
Kelley said of the agency. Bonner "had a lot of preconceived notions that did
not change over time. They've been difficult times, and I think the employees
felt an awful lot of things were dictated, and often not with full information,
because he was so far removed from the front line and what was really
happening."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              250 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           October 5, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Ehrlich Pressed to Cancel Cuts in Medicaid

BYLINE: John Wagner, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B08

LENGTH: 706 words


Maryland Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. (R) is facing renewed pressure to restore
state money for immigrant health care, including a plea from a frequent ally,
Comptroller William Donald Schaefer.

Schaefer (D), who has a close working relationship with Ehrlich, said in an
interview that he is a "strong advocate" of restoring money next year that
Ehrlich cut for Medicaid coverage for newly arrived legal immigrants and
pregnant women in Maryland.

"I believe if you can prevent disease before you have problems, you should do
that," said Schaefer, who drew fire last year for complaining about a
Spanish-speaking McDonald's clerk and often speaks disparagingly of other
effects of immigration. "They're going to be here, so you've got to prevent
problems before they occur."

That view has been echoed in recent weeks by a panel that advises Ehrlich's
health secretary, as well as by a legislative committee that reviews state
regulations.

Ehrlich cut $7 million in Medicaid funding this year for coverage of newly
arrived immigrant children and pregnant women, citing spiraling spending on the
program for the poor. An estimated 4,000 women and children were affected, a
disproportionate number of them in Montgomery County.

In July, a day after announcing the state had a surplus of more than $1 billion,
Ehrlich restored $1.5 million for coverage of pregnant women already enrolled in
the program. The state is not serving new applicants, however, and immigrant
children are no longer eligible for coverage until five years after obtaining
legal status.

That posture is "shortsighted at best," according to Kevin C. Lindamood,
chairman of a panel that advises Ehrlich's health secretary, S. Anthony McCann,
on Medicaid policy.

"Left without access to care, low-income legal immigrants will go without
routine access to less costly primary and preventive services and will instead
seek costly care in Maryland's hospitals and emergency rooms," Lindamood wrote
in a letter to McCann last month. "Furthermore, once legal immigrants satisfy
the five-year residency requirement and return to the Medicaid rolls, they are
more likely to require costlier treatment for more complicated medical
conditions due directly to their lack of access to care."

Lindamood urged a "prompt and permanent reversal" of the budget cut, arguing
that "the livelihood of vulnerable women and children hang in the balance."

A legislative committee, meanwhile, voted last week against permanently barring
immigrant children and pregnant women from the Medicaid program during their
first five years of legal status. The 8 to 3 vote by the Administrative,
Executive and Legislative Review Committee has no bearing on this year but would
require Ehrlich to make a similar cut next year if he does not want the state to
cover the population.

Ehrlich spokesman Henry Fawell said yesterday that Ehrlich had received "many
suggestions from many sources" about how to spend the state's surplus but that
no final decisions have been made regarding next year's budget.

"The governor looks forward to proposing a compassionate and fiscally
responsible budget in January," Fawell said.

This year's decision to drop pregnant women and children, in effect, brought
Maryland in line with federal policy. The federal government stopped providing
its share of Medicaid funding for newly arrived immigrants in 1996, but until
this year Maryland had used state dollars to keep them in the program.

Ehrlich's proposed cuts drew criticism in January from immigrant advocates and
heavier flak in June as they were about to take effect. Among the most vocal
critics this summer were Montgomery County Executive Douglas M. Duncan (D), who
is gearing up to run for governor, and other county officials.

Montgomery Health Officer Ulder J. Tillman said yesterday that local children
who have lost coverage have been enrolled in a county-funded health program and
that pregnant women are being steered to a partnership with Holy Cross Hospital
that provides prenatal care.

"Right now, we have been able to absorb all those who have come to us, but there
is a limit to what we can do," Tillman said, suggesting that children could be
placed on waiting lists starting next month.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              251 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 6, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

A Harsh Price to Pay in Pursuit of a Dream;
For Central American Women, Sexual Coercion Is Hazard on Route to U.S.

BYLINE: Mary Jordan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A Section; A01

LENGTH: 1365 words

DATELINE: TECUN UMAN, Guatemala


"If you come to my office and lie down with me, you can pass." That was the
offer, Ileana Figueroa recalled, that taught her sex was the price of passage to
the United States.

As she considered the Honduran border official's demand, Figueroa, 20, said she
thought about her brother waiting for her in Miami, where he had promised she
could earn unimaginable sums as a caretaker for the elderly. She thought, too,
of how devastating it would be to return to her Honduran village and tell her
family she had handed over their life savings to a smuggler for nothing.

So, the mother of two walked reluctantly into the checkpoint office on the
Honduras-Guatemala border and shut the door. It was August 2003. "I didn't want
to be a failure. I wanted to go to Miami," said Figueroa, her brown hair tied in
a ponytail.

When the official was finished with her, Figueroa continued her journey north.
But after just one week, she was caught in Mexico and deported, poorer than when
she set out and too ashamed to return home. She ended up in this shabby but
fast-paced town near the Mexico-Guatemala border, sleeping in the back of a
saloon and selling her body for $6 a customer.

"What else can I do now?" she said.

Coerced into sex by smugglers, border officials, street gang members and others
who control the underground route to the United States, many female migrants are
paying an especially harsh price for a chance to land a job in the north,
according to government and church officials.

The problem is particularly acute for Central American women without skills or
legal documents, who must navigate 1,500 miles of Mexican territory to reach the
U.S. border. Those who fall short of their destination, yet feel too ashamed to
go home, often end up stranded in brothels along the way.

"Sex has become a negotiation mechanism. Many times it is the only way women can
cross," said Rene Leyva, a public health researcher in Mexico.

The Rev. Ademar Barilli, a Catholic priest who runs a shelter for migrants in
Tecun Uman and has spoken with hundreds of women who stay there, said he
believed that "many more than half" are coerced into sex along the way.
Sometimes, he said, men pretend to befriend them and offer them a place to
sleep, only later adding the condition that they engage in sex.

Barilli said the church, from pulpits across Central America, has warned women
of the dangers involved in traveling north, including rape and sexual extortion,
and that some women have recently made the journey in groups. Despite the
dangers, they still go.

"Those who have nothing to live for back in their home country decide to risk it
anyway," he said.

No one knows precisely how many undocumented female migrants are trying to enter
the United States, but more than 800,000 women have been deported by U.S. border
officials since 2000. Nearly all were Mexicans and Central Americans who were
caught and detained on the U.S.-Mexico border. Mexican officials said that, over
the same period, they had detained tens of thousands of Central American women
heading north.

Hugo Eduardo Beteta Mendez, a Guatemalan academic and presidential adviser, said
the stories of rape and extorted sex along the route are now so common that when
women do not reach the United States, many cannot return to their villages
because neighbors and parents assume that they, too, have become victims. Thus,
some of the women see prostitution as their only option.

"It's a double tragedy," said Beteta. The map from Central America to the U.S.
border, he added, is "full of pain."

Almost every bar on Third Street in Tecun Uman, from the Safary to the North
Star, is a brothel with tiny numbered rooms occupied by women who tried to get
to the United States and failed. About 1,000 women work as prostitutes here --
many hoping to earn enough money to head north again, according to church
officials.

Thousands of Central American migrants pass through here each week. Those
heading north walk to the edge of town and float across the narrow, muddy
Suchiate River to Mexico in large inner tubes.

Laura Caravante, a Mexican immigration official, said Mexico deports 350 people
every day to this steamy, lawless frontier town of 30,000, where gunfire
crackles nightly. She said that 10 years ago it was rare to see women being
deported, but now as many as four out of 10 deportees are female.

Once stranded in mid-journey, some take up prostitution temporarily, until they
can save up for another attempt to reach a decent job in the United States,
officials said.

"My brother made it to Miami. I want to go, too," said Figueroa, perspiring
heavily in a yellow tank top and jeans as she sat in her sweltering room. "But
for us, sex is an obstacle to getting there."

The cubicle was just big enough for a bed and a small table where Figueroa keeps
medicine for her persistent, hacking cough. Aqua paint peeled off the walls, and
an electric fan -- her only luxury -- whirred uselessly in a corner.

Figueroa said most men had already left her northern Honduran village, where
there is little to do but grow beans and bananas and where the typical monthly
salary is about $100. Across Mexico and Central America, hundreds of towns are
bereft of working-age men, who are nailing plasterboard in Houston or washing
dishes in Silver Spring.

Now, drawn by the same lures, young women are increasingly making the same,
high-risk leaps. Their families save for years, borrow from every relative and
even sell off land to finance their trips north.

Figueroa left her two small children with her mother, took the family savings
and paid a smuggler a $2,000 down payment. The investment would have gone for
nothing had she not submitted to the border official's demands.

"What choice did I have?" she asked.

Once out of Honduras and inside Guatemala, Figueroa boarded a bus and traveled
200 miles toward Peten, a wilderness area along the border with Mexico.
Accompanied by her smuggler and a group of other migrants, she said, she walked
six days and nights through canyons and into southern Mexico.

But when they arrived in the city of Villahermosa, the smuggler robbed the whole
group and abandoned them. Before long, Figueroa was in a Mexican jail awaiting
deportation back to Guatemala. Other women whispered that there was fast cash to
be earned in a place called Tecun Uman, so that's where she headed. Now, after
more than a year, she is still trapped in a limbo of shame and survival.

"I can't go home, and I can't tell my family where I am," she said.

As the United States ratchets up pressure on Mexico to arrest illegal Central
American migrants before they reach the U.S. border, Mexican authorities have
been arresting record numbers, often topping 1,000 a day. And as these
deportations have risen, numerous red-light towns have sprung up along Mexico's
southern border.

Another back-bar cubicle on Third Street is occupied by Caroline, 23, a chubby
Nicaraguan who had hoped to reach Houston. Detained and deported en route, she
was too embarrassed to go home to her old shrimp-packing job. Besides, she said,
she can earn more in Tecun Uman and set off that much sooner again for Texas.

"The other night a man tried to strangle me," Caroline said, demonstrating how
he grabbed her neck. "They said they called the police, but no police came."

A young woman sitting beside Caroline nodded tearfully as the Nicaraguan
described the hardships of her attempt to reach the United States -- including
her experience with the Mexican police officer who promised not to arrest her if
she had sex with him. But despite everything, Caroline said, "The dream is still
bigger than the risks."

Figueroa said she dreams every day about joining her brother in Miami and
working in a home for senior citizens. And she is saving up, one customer at a
time, for the journey. On a busy day, she calculated, she serves five customers
and turns over half her earnings to the bar owner, pocketing $15.

As she spoke, sipping a cold soda at the bar, a man walked in and eyed her and
several other deportees, each available for $6.

"This is not want I wanted in life," Figueroa said. "It's what I got."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              252 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 4, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

NATION IN BRIEF

SECTION: A Section; A24

LENGTH: 517 words


HOUSTON -- A woman who was riding in the cab of a sweltering tractor-trailer
during the nation's deadliest smuggling attempt told jurors  she begged the
driver to free the illegal immigrants locked inside the vehicle.

"They were banging on the trailer. I told [the driver], 'You got to let them
out,'  " Fatima Holloway testified at the trial of three people who allegedly
were members of the smuggling ring.

Seventeen immigrants died in the nearly airless trailer that was abandoned in
May 2003 at a truck stop near Victoria, about 100 miles southwest of Houston.
Two immigrants died later. Authorities estimate the temperature reached 173
degrees inside the trailer.

Each defendant could get  life in prison if convicted of harboring and
transporting illegal immigrants. Defense attorneys have said that the three had
minimal involvement in the attempt to take more than 70 immigrants from south
Texas to Houston.

Tyrone Williams, the man who allegedly drove the truck carrying the immigrants,
is scheduled to go on trial in January. He could be sentenced to death if he is
convicted.

Holloway, 30, has pleaded guilty in the case.

*  MENOMONIE, Wis. -- A man may face charges that he painted the word "killer"
on his Hmong neighbors' homes shortly after a Hmong man was arrested in the
fatal shootings of six white hunters last month, police said. Police Chief
Dennis Beety said investigators have recommended that prosecutors charge the
38-year-old man, who is white, with three counts of vandalism, possibly as a
hate crime. Chai Soua Vang, 36, of St. Paul, Minn., was charged Monday with six
counts of first-degree intentional homicide in the slayings of six hunters after
a confrontation about trespassing on private land in northern Wisconsin.

*  KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- A man suspected of strangling women whose bodies were
found in a neighborhood frequented by drug addicts and prostitutes was charged
with seven counts of first-degree murder. Terry A. Blair, 43, was charged in
September with one count of first-degree murder in the death of one of the
women, Sheliah McKinzie, 38.

*  PHILADELPHIA -- A Red Cross employee and two other people were accused of
stealing the identities of about 40 blood donors and using the information to
obtain about $268,000 in cash and merchandise. In 2002 and 2003, Red Cross
data-entry clerk Danielle Baker, 33, of Collingswood, N.J., filched names,
addresses, dates of birth, Social Security numbers, telephone numbers and places
of employment from the computer records of people who had participated in
corporate blood drives in Philadelphia, U.S. Attorney Patrick Meehan said.
Harold J. McCoy III, 33, and Karynn R. Long, 36, of Dayton, Ohio, used the
information to obtain credit, cash counterfeit checks and get bank loans, Meehan
said. The Red Cross said that blood donor cards now show unique ID numbers, not
Social Security numbers, and forms containing donor information are shredded
once the records are entered into computers. Access to computer records is
limited, and all Red Cross staff must sign confidentiality pacts.

--  From News Services

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                              253 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 12, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

What the Real ID Act Accomplishes

SECTION: Editorial; A18

LENGTH: 268 words


A Feb.  10 editorial wrongly  suggested that the Real ID Act  would, "[a]s a
practical matter," intrude on the states' ability to manage driver safety and
insurance issues for illegal aliens through its  requirement that applicants
show proof they are in this country legally.

First, any state still  would be able to issue driver's licenses to illegal
aliens, permitting  them to drive legally.

Those licenses will not, however, permit a person who has entered the country
illegally or overstayed his visa to gain access to federal facilities, where he
may commit terrorist acts, or obtain federal benefits that may finance those
acts.

Second, only 11 states do not now require proof of lawful presence in this
country to obtain a  driver's license. Without the federal standard, these
states will be magnets for illegal aliens to obtain identification documents.

The Sept. 11 commission called for layered security, noting,   "No single
security measure is foolproof." As we work with other countries to ensure that
their travel documents meet our security standards and improve our capacity to
screen aliens for terrorist suspects, we also must secure our  internal
identification system to prevent terrorists, who may have evaded detection at an
earlier stage, from obtaining the means to do us harm. The Real ID  Act does
this without impinging on the states' prerogatives.

THOMAS M. DAVIS III

U.S. Representative (R-Va.)

Washington

The writer  is chairman of the House Committee on Government Reform and
introduced H.R. 368, which became the driver's license provisions of the Real ID
Act, H.R. 418.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              254 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 18, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Senate Panel Says No to Barring Illegal Immigrants From State Colleges

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins

SECTION: Metro; B04 , RICHMOND NOTEBOOK Chris L. Jenkins

LENGTH: 461 words


A Senate committee yesterday defeated a bill that would have barred illegal
immigrants from admission to the state's colleges and universities.

Del. Thomas D. Gear (R-Hampton), sponsor of House Bill 2910, argued that
admission of illegal immigrants limits access to higher education for legal
residents.

Gear's bill passed the House of Delegates this month on a vote of 67 to 28. But
it was defeated yesterday in the Senate Education and Health Committee on a vote
of 12 to 3.

Senators said they feared the bill would unfairly bar children of illegal
immigrants who have grown up in Virginia and attended high school in the state.

A bill to crack down on Virginians who transfer assets before seeking assistance
from Medicaid died in a Senate committee yesterday.

House Bill 2601 would have authorized the state to ask federal officials for
permission to tighten Medicaid rules and to examine a greater portion of a
Medicaid applicant's financial history. The bill passed the House 66 to 28 last
month.

Federal law allows the state to go back three years to investigate the financial
history of a Medicaid applicant who claims to be unable to pay for long-term
health care. Delegates wanted the state to be able to double the number of
years.

The bill's sponsor, Del. R. Steven Landes (R-Augusta), said he wanted to stop
abuse of the state's health care system and focus resources on those in real
need. He said it would save valuable resources as the state's elderly population
rises.

Opponents said cracking down in such a way would be too invasive, potentially
requiring the state's elderly to give up sentimental gifts of value simply to be
eligible for Medicaid.

A House panel has recommended amending a bill that would set strict blood
alcohol limits on Virginia hunters.

Senate Bill 1149, which passed that chamber 40 to 0 last week, would make it a
crime to hunt with a 0.02 blood alcohol level, a standard tougher than the
state's drunken driving threshold, which is 0.08.

Officials with the state's Department of Game and Inland Fisheries said they
requested the legislation because the law regarding alcohol and hunting is
vague.

But a House Courts of Justice subcommittee voted Wednesday to amend Senate Bill
1149 so that the blood alcohol provisions are taken out.

Delegates also voted to remove a provision holding that people suspected of
hunting while intoxicated have consented to a breath test by the mere act of
hunting.

The full committee will vote on the amendment today.

The right to hunt is guaranteed by the Virginia Constitution, and delegates said
the state could not impose "implied consent" on hunters in the same way it is
applied to drivers and boaters.

Staff writer Michael D. Shear contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              255 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           February 26, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Benefits Bills

SECTION: Metro; B05

LENGTH: 154 words


The 2005 Virginia General Assembly considered a variety of bills that would
limit public benefits available to illegal immigrants.

*  House Bill 2056

Sponsored by Del. Kathy J. Byron (R-Lynchburg). Would restrict the types of
benefits available to illegal immigrants under the state Workers' Compensation
Act. Passed House. Rejected in Senate.

*  House Bill 2910 Sponsored by Thomas D. Gear (R-Hampton). Would prohibit
admission of illegal immigrants to any public institutions in state. Passed
House. Rejected in Senate.

*  House Bill 1798

Sponsored by Del. David B. Albo (R-Fairfax). Would restrict the public health
care benefits available to illegal immigrants 19 or older. Passed House and
Senate, but conflicting versions must be resolved by conference committee.

*  Senate Bill 1143

Sponsored by Sen. Emmett W. Hanger Jr. (R-Augusta). Similar to HB 1798. Passed
House and Senate; sent to conference committee.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              256 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 27, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bills to Bar Illegal Immigrants From Medicaid, Welfare Go to Warner

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins

SECTION: Metro; C07 , RICHMOND NOTEBOOK Chris L. Jenkins

LENGTH: 518 words


The Virginia General Assembly has passed legislation that would restrict illegal
immigrants' access to Medicaid, welfare and other public benefits.

The identical measures, which were approved by both chambers yesterday after
minor details were resolved in a conference committee, will go before Gov. Mark
R. Warner (D). The governor has not said whether he will sign the bills.

House Bill 1798 and Senate Bill 1143 would bar illegal immigrants 19 and older
from receiving state or local health care, food assistance and other public
benefits.

Supporters of the measures said it was important for Virginia to reserve public
benefits for legal residents. The legislation would mandate that people seeking
public benefits prove their legal status to state or local officials by
producing the same documents used to obtain a driver's license. Applicants now
simply check a box affirming that they are legal residents.

Opponents said the bills would make it more difficult for legal residents to
obtain public services because they may not have access to the proper documents.
Others said the bills were needlessly harsh.

Virginia lawmakers have passed legislation that would rename the portion of
Route 234 between Route 1 and Interstate 66 in Prince William County the Ronald
Wilson Reagan Memorial Highway.

HB 1656, sponsored by Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter (R-Prince William), passed the
House 96 to 0 late last month and passed the Senate last week, 25 to 15. Warner
would also have to approve the bill for the name change to take effect.

Opponents, including Sen. Charles J. Colgan (D-Prince William), said roads such
as Route 234 should be named for local residents of note. He said the county has
many figures from its own history to draw on for road names.

A bill that would have prevented motorists younger than 18 from using cell
phones while driving died yesterday in the General Assembly, after senators and
delegates could not agree on how tough they should be on young drivers.

As adopted by the Senate, the proposal would have made it illegal for 16- or
17-year-old drivers to talk on cell phones, even if they used a hands-free
device. Delegates would have made the offense a secondary rather than primary
violation, meaning that police could ticket teenagers for breaking the new law
only if they were pulled over for breaking another rule of the road.

On the floor of the House, however, delegates changed the bill to allow young
drivers to talk using a hands-free device.

Sen. James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax) said using a hands-free device is
just as bad as a hand-held phone, because a driver would need to fumble with the
device when it rings. The bill, he said, would also not have addressed text
messaging. "This would give a pass to teens. I don't want teens to get a pass in
paying attention to their job, which is learning to drive," he said.

Delegates rejected O'Brien's arguments on the bill, and several referred to its
provisions as "nannyism." O'Brien said he would introduce the bill again next
year.

Staff writer Rosalind S. Helderman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              257 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 27, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Bills to Bar Illegal Immigrants From Medicaid, Other Benefits Go to Warner

BYLINE: Chris L. Jenkins

SECTION: Metro; C06 , RICHMOND NOTEBOOK Chris L. Jenkins

LENGTH: 518 words


The Virginia General Assembly has passed legislation that would restrict illegal
immigrants' access to Medicaid, welfare and other public benefits.

The identical measures, which were approved by both chambers yesterday after
minor details were resolved in a conference committee, will go before Gov. Mark
R. Warner (D). The governor has not said whether he will sign the bills.

House Bill 1798 and Senate Bill 1143 would bar illegal immigrants 19 and older
from receiving state or local health care, food assistance and other public
benefits.

Supporters of the measures said it was important for Virginia to reserve public
benefits for legal residents. The legislation would mandate that people seeking
public benefits prove their legal status to state or local officials by
producing the same documents used to obtain a driver's license. Applicants now
simply check a box affirming that they are legal residents.

Opponents said the bills would make it more difficult for legal residents to
obtain public services because they may not have access to the proper documents.
Others said the bills were needlessly harsh.

Virginia lawmakers have passed legislation that would rename the portion of
Route 234 between Route 1 and Interstate 66 in Prince William County the Ronald
Wilson Reagan Memorial Highway.

HB 1656, sponsored by Del. L. Scott Lingamfelter (R-Prince William), passed the
House 96 to 0 late last month and passed the Senate last week, 25 to 15. Warner
would also have to approve the bill for the name change to take effect.

Opponents, including Sen. Charles J. Colgan (D-Prince William), said roads such
as Route 234 should be named for local residents of note. He said the county has
many figures from its own history to draw on for road names.

A bill that would have prevented motorists younger than 18 from using cell
phones while driving died yesterday in the General Assembly, after senators and
delegates could not agree on how tough they should be on young drivers.

As adopted by the Senate, the proposal would have made it illegal for 16- or
17-year-old drivers to talk on cell phones, even if they used a hands-free
device. Delegates would have made the offense a secondary rather than primary
violation, meaning that police could ticket teenagers for breaking the new law
only if they were pulled over for breaking another rule of the road.

On the floor of the House, however, delegates changed the bill to allow young
drivers to talk using a hands-free device.

Sen. James K. "Jay" O'Brien Jr. (R-Fairfax) said using a hands-free device is
just as bad as a hand-held phone, because a driver would need to fumble with the
device when it rings. The bill, he said, would also not have addressed text
messaging.

"This would give a pass to teens. I don't want teens to get a pass in paying
attention to their job, which is learning to drive," he said.

Delegates rejected O'Brien's arguments on the bill, and several referred to its
provisions as "nannyism." O'Brien said he would introduce the bill again next
year.

Staff writer Rosalind S. Helderman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              258 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Truck Driver Guilty of Smuggling in 19 Immigrants' Deaths

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A05

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON March 23


--  A truck driver was convicted Wednesday for his role in the deaths of 19
illegal immigrants who clawed at the walls of his sweltering tractor-trailer and
screamed for air as he smuggled them across Texas.

The 2003 journey was the deadliest human-smuggling attempt in U.S. history.

Tyrone Williams, 34, was found guilty on 38 counts of transporting illegal
immigrants but was spared the death penalty because the jury could not agree on
whether he bore direct responsibility for the deaths.

The judge also declared a mistrial on 20 counts of conspiracy and harboring
after the jury deadlocked on those charges during 21/2 days of deliberations.
One of those charges also carried the death penalty.

Williams, who smiled when he learned he would not face the death penalty, could
get life in prison.

Prosecutors said during the nine-day trial that Williams was paid $7,500 by a
smuggling ring to transport more than 70 illegal immigrants from Harlingen to
Houston in May 2003. The refrigeration unit on Williams's trailer was not turned
on for the trip, and authorities said temperatures inside reached 173 degrees.

Survivors testified that as the heat in the trailer became unbearable, the
immigrants took off their sweat-drenched clothes and crowded around holes they
punched in the truck so they could breathe. They also kicked out a signal light
to try to get the attention of passing motorists.

Prosecutors said that Williams ignored the immigrants' screams and their banging
on the sides of the truck and that he even called the operators of the smuggling
ring on his cell phone to demand more money because he feared they would damage
his rig.

Williams eventually abandoned the trailer about 100 miles southwest of Houston
after opening the doors and finding some of the immigrants lying in the trailer.
He was arrested a few hours later at a Houston hospital.

Seventeen people, including a 5-year-old boy, died inside the trailer of
dehydration, overheating and suffocation. Two others died later.

U.S. District Judge Vanessa Gilmore set an April 11 hearing on whether to retry
Williams on the 20 deadlocked counts, but no sentencing date was set.

Defense attorneys argued that although Williams was guilty of transporting the
immigrants, the ring's other members were responsible for the deaths because
they packed too many people into the trailer.

Defense attorney Craig Washington said that Williams could not understand the
immigrants' pleas because he does not speak Spanish, but that when Williams
found out what was happening, he bought 55 bottles of water at a truck stop and
shoved them through the hole in the trailer.

But Fatima Holloway, who rode along with Williams, said she pleaded with him to
help the immigrants sooner. She said both of them could hear the immigrants
banging on the sides of the trailer.

Williams, a Jamaican citizen who lives in Schenectady, N.Y., was the only one of
14 defendants in the case to face the death penalty. Federal law allows capital
punishment in fatal smuggling cases.

Two other defendants were convicted of smuggling charges in December and are
awaiting sentencing. Five others have pleaded guilty. One man remains a
fugitive.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              259 of 259 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             October 2, 2005 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Volunteer Border Patrols Broaden Reach;
Women, Hispanics Joining Campaign to Halt Illegal Immigration From Mexico

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A Section; A09

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: CAMPO, Calif. Oct. 1


As the sun set, Roy Wood looked out of place patrolling a dirt road a few steps
north of a rusty fence that separates the United States from Mexico. The
clean-shaven English-as-a-second-language instructor wore a T-shirt tucked in
clean blue jeans, a pistol strapped to his  belt.

Many of the hundreds who make up the self-appointed civilian patrols monitoring
the border to deter smuggling of people and drugs are unemployed or
underemployed ex-military men who  resent Mexicans who come to the United States
illegally and, in their view, compete for jobs, crowd hospitals and schools and
threaten English as the nation's dominant language.

The civilian patrols of recent months have failed to stem the tide of illegal
crossings, but they have ratcheted up pressure on Washington to better police
U.S. borders and fueled tension in border towns about potential violence. But as
the patrols continue, they are targeting a wider circle of volunteers.

Urban dwellers, young women, some Hispanics have joined. Their gripes  are often
the same as those of the gun-toting veterans, though their backgrounds are
different.

"It shows that the problem reaches all of America, not just a specific group,"
said Gayle Nyberg, 57, of  Murietta, Calif., who slept in the back of a 1976
Chevrolet Suburban  while on patrol duty.

More than 200 people signed up with the California Minutemen, who spent three
weeks at the border over the  summer.

Civilian patrols are opposed by 56 percent of Californians but supported by a
majority of Republicans and people age 65 and older, according to a recent Field
Poll. Support was weak in Los Angeles and San Francisco and among Hispanics and
people younger than 40. The telephone survey of 426 registered voters Aug. 19-29
had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.

Two dozen or so recruits gathered one August evening in Campo, 40 miles east of
San Diego, where many had been camped for nearly three weeks. Small groups were
assigned along a mountainous 16-mile stretch of the border.

No one spotted illegal crossers that night, which is typical. The Border Patrol
credits the California Minutemen for reporting crossings that resulted in three
arrests during a three-week patrol.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post
